JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report Year ended March 31, 2019 2019 CONTENTS 01 Japan Post Group Management Philosophy & Company Outline Group Management Policy Company name: JAPAN POST HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. Head office location: 3-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, 02 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Tokyo, Japan Date of establishment: January 23, 2006 04 Message from the President Paid-in capital: ¥3,500 billion Securities code: 6178 Enhancing Corporate Value Total number of shareholders: 623,985 (as of March 31, 2019) 12 History of Japan Post Group 14 Japan Post Group Value Creation Process 16 Editorial Policy Strengths of Japan Post Group 18 Value Created by Japan Post Group This Integrated Report (hereinafter, “this Report”) is created from the dual perspectives of providing financial and non-financial information pertaining to an overview of Japan Post Group as well as its business Medium-term Strategy strategies and management issues for the purpose of promoting an 22 Structure of Japan Post Group understanding among stakeholders of Japan Post Group’s initiatives 23 Medium-term Management Plan toward sustainable value creation. This Report is combined with the Disclosure Report. 26 Top Messages from Each Company • Reference Guideline: International Integrated Reporting Framework, 28 Business Segment International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) (December 2013) 39 Fostering a Sense of Unity in the Group (Team JP) 40 New Strategic Areas of Focus Subject of Reporting Reporting Period: April 2018—March 2019 (Part of this Report includes Sustainability information after this period.) 48 Toward the Realization of a Sustainable Society Scope of Report: Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries and 50 Initiatives through Business Activities affiliated companies 59 Social Contributions through Sports Others: In addition to this Report, please refer to the Integrated 60 Japan Post Group Corporate Governance Reports of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. and Japan Post 68 Directors Insurance Co., Ltd. 70 Interview with Outside Director Please also refer to the most recent materials disclosed by Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. that 72 Japan Post Group Risk Management include the Convocation of Ordinary General Meeting 74 Japan Post Group Compliance Framework of Shareholders (Business Report, etc.), Annual 76 Japan Post Group Internal Audit System Securities Report and Summary Report of Financial 77 Japan Post Group IT Governance Results for detailed information on the state of 78 Cyber Security Measures business, financial condition and business results of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. and each company of 79 Initiatives for Transportation Safety Japan Post Group. 80 Dialogue with Stakeholders Date of Publication: July 2019 Data Compilation 83 Data Compilation Recent Events of Japan Post Group Publications and their positioning Reports WEB Summary Report of Financial Results Financial Information For shareholders and investors (IR Annual Securities Report website) https://www.japanpost.jp/ir/ Shareholders’ Report Convocation of Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (Business Report, etc.), Group governance (corporate governance website) Integrated Reports https://www.japanpost.jp/corporate/ management/ governance/ Corporate Governance Report CSR Report CSR website SDGs Book https://www.japanpost.jp/csr/ Non-financial Information Japan Post Group Management Philosophy & Group Management Policy Japan Post Group Management Philosophy Vision Stressing the security and confidence of Japan Post Group network, the Group, as a private corporation, is demonstrating creativity and efficiency to the greatest extent possible and will provide customer-oriented services, support the lives of customers in local communities and aim for the happiness of customers and employees. The Group will also pursue managerial transparency on its own, observe rules and contribute to the development of society and the region. Enhancing Corporate Value Group Management Policy 1. We will duly consider our customers’ lives, exercise our creativity and provide through our nationwide network a selection of products and services needed by customers in every stage of their lives. 2. We will establish effective corporate governance and compliance programs, including internal audits and internal controls. 3. W e will maintain the transparency of the Group’s operations through the timely and proper disclosure of information, the appropriate use of intra-group Medium-term Strategy transactions and other activities. 4. W e aim for the Group’s sustainable growth and a mid-to-long term improvement in our corporate value. 5. We will create opportunities for all employees, business partners and the community to mutually cooperate and for each and every employee to grow. Sustainability Data Compilation Disclaimer with respect to forward-looking statements This Report is a translation of the Disclosure Document (the written explanation in Japanese of the business and financial conditions of Japan Post Holdings Co. and Japan Post Group) that was prepared pursuant to Article 52-29 of the Banking Act and Article 27125 of the Insurance Business Act. This Report is not prepared for the purpose of soliciting any shares or other securities of Japan Post Holdings Co. and its subsidiaries. This Report contains forward-looking statements regarding future performance and other matters of Japan Post Group and each company of Japan Post Group. These forward-looking statements do not constitute guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Therefore, these statements are subject to the impact of a wide range of future risk factors that include changes in preconditions concerning the business environment, economic circumstances and economic trends, changes in laws and regulations, the occurrence of large-scale disasters, changes in the value of assets held, reputation and rumor risk and other risks. Accordingly, it should be noted that actual business results and other matters could differ from the details contained in this Report. Figures and percentages shown in this Report have been rounded off, except for financial numbers in the accounting statements, etc., that have been truncated without rounding. As a consequence, sums of figures may not match the totals presented. Figures and percentages, with exceptions as specifically indicated, are as of March 31, 2019. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 1 Vision Financial and Non-Financial Highlights ■Ordinary income (Billions of yen) 15,000 13,326.5 12,920.3 Ordinary income in the fiscal year 12,774.9 12,000 ended March 31, 2019, declined 1.1% from the previous fiscal year 9,000 to ¥12,774.9 billion. 6,000 3,000 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ■Net ordinary income/Net income (loss) attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co./Net income (loss) per share (Billions of yen) (Yen) 118.57 1,200 112.97 120.00 Net ordinary income in the fiscal 1,000 916.1 100.00 year ended March 31, 2019, 795.2 830.6 800 80.00 declined 9.3% from the previous 600 479.4 60.00 fiscal year to ¥830.6 billion, net 460.6 400 40.00 income attributable to Japan Post 200 20.00 Holdings Co. increased 4.1% from 0 0.00 the previous fiscal year to ¥479.4 (7.04) (28.9) (200) (20.00) billion and net income per share FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 amounted to ¥118.57. Net ordinary income Net income (loss) attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co. Net income per share ■Return on equity （%） Return on equity in the fiscal year 4.0 3.6 3.4 ended March 31, 2019, increased 3.5 3.0 0.2 percentage point from the 2.5 previous fiscal year to 3.6%. 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 (0.2) (0.5) 2016 2017 2018 ■Dividend per share (Yen) 60.00 Annual dividend per share in the 7.00 50.00 fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, 40.00 amounted to ¥50 (includes an 25.00 25.00 25.00 interim dividend of ¥25). 30.00 20.00 10.00 25.00 25.00 25.00 0.00 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Interim dividend Year-end dividend Special dividend 2 ■Greenhouse gas*1 emissions ■Number of agreements/Agreement conclusion rate regarding cooperation with local communities (1,000t-CO2) (Agreements) (%) 1,200 0.10 2,000 94 96 100 1,116 Vision 1,054 1,048 88 89 82 1,000 0.08 1,635 1,529 1,678 1,552 80 17.9 0.07 0.07 1,500 76 0.06 1,423 1,319 800 0.06 60 1,000 600 0.04 40 Enhancing Corporate Value 400 28 20 0.000136 0.000134 0.000129 19 4 0 0 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Total CO2 emissions*2 Basic unit (facility)*3(t-CO2/m2) Comprehensive partnership agreements (Prefectures) (Agreements) Basic unit (vehicle)*4(t-CO2/km) Number of agreements regarding cooperation with local communities *1: Greenhouse gasses emitted by Japan Post Group’s businesses refer to CO2. (Municipalities) (Agreements) *2: Covers Japan Post Holdings Co. and principal Group companies (Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co.). Disaster prevention agreements (Municipalities) (Agreements) *3: Basic unit per facility = CO2 emissions from facilities of the entire Group (t-CO2)/Total floor area of Number of agreements regarding cooperation with local communities the entire Group (m2) *4: Basic unit per vehicle = CO2 emissions from vehicles operated by the entire Group (t-CO2)/Distance (Municipalities) (%) traveled by the vehicles (km) Disaster prevention agreements (Municipalities) (%) Medium-term Strategy ■Letter-writing workshop programs/ ■Number of women in management Financial lessons positions/Female executive officers (Schools) (Schools) (Persons) (Persons) 25,000 100 3,000 25 2,608 2,719 2,540 22 20,050 21 19,780 2,500 20,000 18,200 80 19 20 71 63 2,000 15,000 60 15 49 1,500 10,000 40 7.8％ 8.1％ 10 7.6％ 1,000 Sustainability 5,000 20 5 500 0 0 0 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of schools holding letter-writing workshop programs (Schools) Number of women in management positions (Persons) Number of elementary and junior high schools visited Number of female executive officers (Persons) for financial lessons (Schools) Rate of women in management positions (%) ■Average number of paid holidays taken/ ■Rating Number of persons taking childcare leave Data Compilation (Persons) (Days) 5,000 25 Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) 4,543 (Long-term Issuer Rating) 4.000 17.9 18.1 20 17.7 3,000 15 AA+ (Stable) (As of October 12, 2018) 2,000 1,851 1,878 10 1,000 5 0 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of persons taking childcare leave (Persons) Average number of paid holidays taken (Days) * Number of persons taking childcare leave in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, includes number of persons taking spouse maternity leave. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 3 Vision Message from the President Masatsugu (Mat) Nagato President & CEO Director and Representative Executive Officer Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 4 Japan Post Group is Leveraging Vision Its 148-Year History to Become a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” That is Close to Its Customers Enhancing Corporate Value “Total Lifestyle Support Group” matched to customer needs in addition to savings and Medium-term Strategy Envisioned by Japan Post Group cashless services that offer convenience in everyday life and core financial services such as insurance that Japan Post Group initiated the postal business in 1871 provides people with peace of mind about their future. with the establishment of modern postal service and Japan Post Group also implements initiatives for four years later began postal savings services followed supporting local communities such as undertaking by the start of insurance sales. Our network of 24,000 business consigned by local public entities through post offices that reaches to every corner of Japan is a post offices, providing services in collaboration with close part of people’s lives in local communities. other companies and participating in regional vitalization Throughout our 148-year history, we have continually funds in cooperation with regional financial institutions. provided reliable services in rain, wind and all types of Going forward, we will develop our postal and weather in regions ranging from mountaintops to logistics, banking and insurance services that are Sustainability remote islands. We have also consistently developed provided mainly via the post office network. We will also products tailored to the needs of a large number of promote new services that support and are a close part customers. For example, although the first life insurance of people’s lives with the assumption that these services services in Japan initially targeted high-income will naturally be viable as new businesses. households, we began offering small-amount Postal Life Insurance through our post offices driven by our determination to provide “insurance that responds to Issues Surrounding Japan Post Group the needs of an even greater number of customers.” By repeatedly implementing such initiatives, we have built In reviewing current circumstances, I anticipate that the Data Compilation strong trust in today’s post office network. In this management environment this year will become manner, Japan Post Group has maintained our increasingly severe and that global economic growth indispensable presence for each and every customer in will likely decelerate gradually over the medium and local communities. long terms. A “Total Lifestyle Support Group” is our future vision Regarding the Japanese economy, I expect the that will be further developed in coming generations harsh interest rate environment to continue. based on Japan Post Group’s history of getting close to Furthermore, from an overall perspective, the Japanese its customers in local communities. economy is becoming saturated and GDP growth of Today as well, we provide services that support 10% that was recorded in the past is no longer possible. “customers throughout their entire lifetime.” These Japan’s latent real GDP growth rate is now under 1%. include delivery services such as Yu-Pack that are Moreover, the structurally declining birthrate and aging JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 5 Vision Message from the President of the population will advance, while declines of regional Group announced Japan Post Group Medium-Term areas and a tightening of supply and demand for labor Management Plan 2020 for realizing its future vision of are expected to persist. For the logistics industry in becoming a “Total Lifestyle Support Group,” which I particular, the redelivery of packages due to the alluded to at the outset of this message. When the plan absence of recipients is a major issue everywhere. was announced, I remarked that “This three-year plan Meanwhile, responding to technology is also will face the toughest environment than will any other another key issue. As we maintain our awareness of future Medium-Term Management Plan.” By this, I cost effectiveness, in the logistics business we must mean that approximately 70% of Japan Post Group’s keep a close watch on cutting-edge technologies such profits are accounted for by Japan Post Bank Co. and as automation in a broad sense as well as drones and 20% by Japan Post Insurance Co. So more than autonomous driving. In the banking and life insurance anything, ultra-low interest rates in Japan will have a businesses as well, we must rapidly adopt Fintech and tremendous adverse impact on the Group’s profits other technologies. By utilizing technology to improve during the Medium-Term Management Plan. efficiency, I hope to deploy employees in growth fields Even though we operated under such challenging more than ever before. conditions in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the first year of the Medium-Term Management Plan, our results exceeded the initial forecast, as revenues from Entering the Second Year of Japan Post Yu-Pack and Yu-Packet expanded at Japan Post Co. Group Medium-Term Management Plan and investment income by Japan Post Insurance Co. 2020 trended firmly. Thanks to these results, net income attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co. amounted to In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Japan Post ¥479.4 billion, topping the initial forecast of ¥330.0 6 Vision Enhancing Corporate Value Medium-term Strategy billion. Nonetheless, as we enter the second year of the we are starting new businesses using the 24,000 post Medium-Term Management Plan, the environment offices across Japan such as installing regional bank Sustainability surrounding Japan Post Group is becoming increasingly ATMs inside post offices and offering a luggage harsh. First of all, I believe it is imperative that we handling service for travelers. Besides these, we are faithfully and speedily pursue the directions articulated now pursuing collaborative businesses by investing in in the Medium-Term Management Plan. venture companies through JAPAN POST CAPITAL Despite the recent downtrend in our postal services Co. business at Japan Post Co., an expansion in EC Japan Post Bank Co.’s revenue is derived almost markets is expected to continue. Given this outlook, we entirely from asset management. With this in mind, we aim to achieve further growth in the handling of Yuwill secure stable earnings by continuously Pack and Yu-Packet. We are also promoting various sophisticating and diversifying asset management Data Compilation measures in response to tightening supply and demand under appropriate risk management. On the other for labor. For instance, to reduce the number of hand, compared with asset management revenues, redeliveries, in December 2018 we undertook service commission revenues such as from remittances, verification testing of OKIPPA, a service for leaving settlements and investment trust sales are still small. packages in designated areas, together with Yper Inc. Although our share for deposits in Japan is roughly We will also push forward with the establishment of 20%, our investment trusts balance share is just around receiving facilities beginning with “HAKO POST” 3%. This amounts to ¥2 trillion in a ¥70 trillion market. receiving lockers. As these figures suggest, we still have significant leeway We also intend to promote businesses that for growing our market share. Additionally, regional effectively utilize the postal network together with other vitalization is currently a major theme in Japan, and so companies and regional entities. As prime examples, we are also actively promoting investments in regional JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 7 Vision Message from the President revitalization funds in collaboration with regional products and protection-type products. However, financial institutions. sales of savings-type products are becoming Japan Post Insurance Co.’s premium income from increasingly difficult under current low interest rate policies in force accounts for the largest portion of its policies. On the brighter side, we foresee growing revenue. Insurance products consist of savings-type demand for protection-type products amid rising ● Trends in Medium-Term Management Plans Business Basic policies Results of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 fields ●Strengthening of sales to mediumand small-scale customers and building of a sales structure that can 1. Postal and domestic Comprehensive review of make unified responses to the wide-ranging needs of customers products and operations ●Improvement of Yu-Pack services that include commencement of new services such as Yu-Pack systems and Smartphone Discount and e-Receiving Assistance and expansion of desired delivery time frame strengthening of service ●Consolidation and mechanization of internal operations at collection and delivery post offices and logistics business infrastructure to support improvement of transportation efficiency, improvement of productivity of letter collection and delivery an expansion in parcels operations, and establishment of facilities for responding to an increase in parcels and a system for transportation and collection and delivery ●Improvement of sales capabilities of employees and of the management capabilities of managers Coexistence with local through training in collaboration with Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. community by ●Expansion of post offices handling investment trusts, permeation of management style emphasizing 2 . Post office business maintaining, financial assets under management through means such as convening the Comprehensive Financial strengthening and Consultation Meetings, expansion of new policies and new customers maximally utilizing the ●Expansion, upgrading and development of products, promotion of diversification of sales channels post office network ●Promotion of leasing business that includes offices leased in JP Tower, commercial facilities, residences through deployment of and nursery schools unique and diverse post offices in ●Strategic locating of post offices, including locating of post offices inside shopping centers accordance with regional ●Completion of increased deployment of cash management machines and introduction of new business needs, etc. flows ●Provision of Watch Over Service ●Enhancement of efficiency through building of new financial accounting systems and introduction of 3 . International Improvements in shared services management of Toll and ●Entry into healthcare and other high-growth fields, opening of Toll City cutting-edge logistics hub deployment of contract logistics in Japan through ●Launch of JP TOLL LOGISTICS Co. that aims to provide integrated solutions logistics business strengthening synergy between JP and Toll ●Increasing of asset management consultant staff, cultivation of human resources through guidance and 4 . Banking business Diversification and training sophistication of ●Installation and relocation of ATMs to highly convenient locations, promotion of installation of compact investment management, ATMs mainly in FamilyMart stores, installation of compact ATMs in branches of Aozora Bank, Ltd. expansion of ●Promotion of quick permeation and usage of Yucho Pay smartphone settlement service non-interest revenue and efficient resource ●Promotion of internationally diversified investments under appropriate risk management, execution of alternative investments and foreign securities investment based on the market environment allocation ●New participation in regional vitalization funds ●Training for sales personnel, improving the sales skills, cultivation of new customer base utilizing the 5 . Life insurance business Family Registration Scheme ●Thoroughgoing customer-first sales activities such as further strengthening the confirmation of intent of Reversal/growth of elderly customers policies in force through ●Obtained approval for new operations (underwriting of whole life insurance, endowment insurance, sales activities focusing etc., with relaxed underwriting criteria; and underwriting of advanced medical rider) on protection needs and ●Expansion of digital contact points utilizing LINE and the health support app (Sukoyakanpo) improvement in solicitation quality ●Phased introduction of insurance procedure support system for automatically creating invoices based on policy information and claim contents ●Expansion of investments in risk assets within the scope of risk buffer based on ALM 8 Vision ownership ratio will be around 50%. Although the share sale in April does not immediately eliminate the additional statutory operational regulations imposed on Japan Post Insurance Co., I believe this amply demonstrates Japan Post Holdings commitment to providing a greater degree of independence to the Enhancing Corporate Value management of Japan Post Insurance Co. Anticipating the Future of Japan Post Group With an eye to the future, I believe that maintaining longevity risk among individuals along with the ongoing corporate value through self-sustaining growth alone aging of the population. Accordingly, we are starting to will be difficult. To further raise the corporate value of witness competitive battles of ingenuity in addressing Japan Post Group, we must therefore focus on three Medium-term Strategy such challenges as how to insure these risks faced by points. individuals, and in doing so, what types of insurance The first is securing alternate earnings sources to products should be developed and sold. As part of replace those of Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post these efforts, in April 2019 we commenced sales of a Insurance Co. In adhering to the intention of the Postal newly developed rider for advanced medical care. By Service Privatization Act, we will, first of all, implement a developing such new products, we aim to expand our policy of gradually selling shares in these two financial business results in third sector products. As we work to companies until our ownership ratio reach the 50% strengthen sales focused on protection, we will strive to level. As the sale of shares in Japan Post Bank Co. and improve the development and sales skills of sales Japan Post Insurance Co. moves forward, we will personnel. From April 2019, we launched products with gradually lose consolidated revenues and profits so we relaxed underwriting criteria to enable previously must create new sources of revenue to replace these. Sustainability uninsurable persons to enroll in insurance in line with The second point is to establish a solid position as our policy for achieving growth in the number of our envisioned “Total Lifestyle Support Group.” We contracts. must never pass up any opportunities to collaborate Turning to the real estate business, we established with other companies that have management Japan Post Real Estate Co. to serve as Japan Post philosophies similar to our mission or with growth Group’s fourth primary source of revenue after the companies regardless of whether these are Japanese postal and logistics, banking and life insurance or overseas companies. businesses. By establishing this company, we aim to Third, we must hedge any risk of disruptions arising accelerate our real estate business. from path-breaking innovations that shake the Data Compilation On a different front, in April 2019 we sold shares in foundation of Japan Post Group’s businesses and Japan Post Insurance Co., and as a result, the undermine these businesses. Company’s shareholdings in Japan Post Insurance Co. Without the awareness of this risk of disruptions as declined to 64.5%. Concerning the sale of shares of the a company that aims to be a “Total Lifestyle Support two financial companies, in accordance with the Group,” we could lose out on irreplaceable major purpose of the Postal Service Privatization Act, with a business opportunities, and this could precipitate our view to increasing management flexibility of these two own decline. I believe that one of management’s financial companies, securing the Group’s unity, and important responsibilities is to respond to anything that demonstrating the Group’s comprehensive capabilities, significantly changes the world. the Company intends to sell shares of these two So how will we further develop Japan Post Group? financial companies step by step so that Company’s One effective means is to make investments, and in JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 9 Vision Message from the President broad terms this encompasses M&A. One such further advancing initiatives in cancer insurance carried previous investment was our acquisition of Toll Holdings out to the present by Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd., Limited, an Australian logistics company. More recently, Japan Post Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co., we will Japan Post Holdings Co. invested in Aflac Incorporated. also consider new initiatives for cooperation. These With the investment in Aflac Incorporated, we include leveraging digital technology in various acquired approximately 7% of Aflac Incorporated’s processes, cooperation in new product development, outstanding common shares. To encourage long-term collaboration in domestic and overseas business investment by shareholders, Aflac Incorporated’s expansion, joint investments in third-party entities and Articles of Incorporation stipulate that each share is cooperation in asset management. entitled to 10 votes, or a ten-fold increase, after holding shares for four years. Therefore, Japan Post Holdings voting rights are expected to surpass 20% four years Toward Sustainable Growth after acquisition. Although Japan Post Holdings Co. initially receives only dividend income from this Environmental, social and governance (ESG) is an investment, when voting rights exceed 20% we will essential theme when considering long-term reflect a portion of Aflac Incorporated’s earnings in our management into the future. There are of course things consolidated earnings via application of the equity we need to do regarding ESG as a company and we will method of accounting. make proactive efforts toward this end. In this manner, the investment for the acquisition of This year, I once again participated in the Davos 7% of Aflac Incorporated’s outstanding common World Economic Forum. During this time, I gained a shares will enable Japan Post Holdings Co. to earn strong sense that implementing management strategies large returns by applying the equity method. Besides with a long-term perspective is emerging as an 10 Vision extremely important theme for a great many investors. and every employee is absolutely essential for us to It was also evident that making environmental remain an outstanding organization. Japan Post Group considerations in business operations is becoming employees sometimes speak to me frankly about their increasingly crucial. Regarding this point, I foresee concerns whenever I exchange opinions with them. actions, such as divestments from fossil fuel-related Although work style reforms are of course essential to companies, gaining further momentum. fully deploy the capabilities of each employee, I believe Enhancing Corporate Value In April 2019, Japan Post Holdings Co., Japan Post that creating environments in which supervisors can Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. declared their address these matters worrying employees is also support for the Recommendations of the Task Force on important. Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)*1. To the The most important factor for raising the motivation present, Japan Post Group has promoted efforts to of every employee is for Japan Post Group to be a contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that “Good Company.” That said, regardless of the good include initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions work environments we establish, employees will never and investments in Green Bonds. Japan Post Group acquire passion for their jobs in a company that lacks a will strive for increased information disclosure by bright future. Mindful of this, I will strive to make Japan deepening its analysis of the impact of climate change Post Holdings Co. a “Good Company” that is admired Medium-term Strategy on the business of each Japan Post Group company the world over. based on the TCFD recommendations. To become a “Good Company,” Japan Post Group At the Davos World Economic Forum, I was told by must carry out unified business management while participants from various foreign countries that also combining individual strengths. In doing so, I aim governance (G) is an important issue for Japan, as to more firmly establish “Team JP.” Experience is the governance-related problems have occurred at several best way to gain knowledge. For this reason, we Japanese companies. Due in part to these incidents, implement job rotations that transcend company Japan’s corporate governance is once again being boundaries and also believe job rotations that can closely scrutinized. Japan Post Group pays careful improve communications between the head office and attention to its governance. For example, it is frequently the front lines of business are also important. said that companies with listed parent and subsidiary Sustainability companies should have a high percentage of outside directors. The majority of directors at Japan Post Group In Conclusion are outside directors, which represents an extremely high proportion of outside directors. Moreover, these When undertaking business, thinking humbly about directors are outstanding persons who are leading people’s needs and responding to these throughout figures in Japan. Japan Post Group is continually the world is important. If we are continually aware of fortified at the Board of Directors Meeting through devoting our utmost efforts to customers, this will active discussions that draw on the knowledge and inevitably lead to our next business. We should experience of these directors. continually put this idea into practice. In the future, we Data Compilation *1. Established by the Financial Stability Board on December 4, 2015 will naturally encounter times of difficulty because that is the very nature of business, and there will be challenges that we must overcome. As its fate, Japan Human Resources are Japan Post Post Group is a company that must continue to shine Group’s Most Important Asset for the next 100 years drawing on its 148-year history. Team JP will never forget its aspirations and mission For well over 100 years, it has been none other than our in working as one and will make its utmost efforts as it dedicated employees who have gotten close to strides toward the future. customers and the local communities and earnestly continued to provide services. Our human resources form our team of human capital. The energy of each JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 11 Enhancing Corporate Value History of Japan Post Group Path of Japan Post Group from Its Founding to the Present Japan Post Group marks its 148th year since modern postal service was established by Hisoka Maejima in 1871. To this date, Japan Post Group remains close to its customers by offering a variety of products and services mainly through its three core businesses of postal services, banking and insurance centered on the post office network. After the establishment of Japan Post Group in 2007 following privatization, the Group has increased its lineup of services that support the lives of its customers and local communities. 2012 Reorganized into the current 2007 four-company structure. Japan Post Group was reorganized from Japan Post Group established. the former five-company structure into the Japan Post Group was established current four-company structure after the following the postal privatization and the merger of Japan Post Service Co. and subsequent dissolution of Japan Post. With Japan Post Network Co. into Japan Post Japan Post Holdings Co. serving as a Co. holding company, the Group mainly consisted of Japan Post Service Co., Japan Post Network Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. 0 201 5 200 2013 Grand opening of JP Tower (and KITTE) JP Tower was opened along with KITTE, a commercial facility within JP Tower, on the 1871 2009 former site of the Tokyo Modern postal Central Post Office. Online connection to the Zengin Data Since then, Japan Post service established. Communication System (Zengin System) Group has been established. proactively engaging in 1875 On January 5, 2009, the online system of the real estate business, mainly Postal savings Japan Post Bank Co. was connected to the leasing offices, Zengin System, enabling mutual remittances commercial facilities, service established. services residences, nursery between the schools and facilities 1916 Bank and some 1,400 financial Japan Post Bank Co. Financial institutions for the elderly. Postal life insurance institutions Post offices across Japan service established. connected to the system. 12 2018 New companies established to capture additional revenues. 2015 Following the establishment of JAPAN POST CAPITAL Co. in November 2017, Vision Listed on the First Section of Japan Post Group established Japan the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Post Investment Corporation to On November 4, 2015, Japan Post accelerate revenue growth through Holdings Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and private equity investment and Japan Post Japan Post Insurance Co. were Real Estate Co. to promote the real simultaneously listed on the First Section of estate business in a more efficient the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Revenues that manner and turn it into a future revenue Japan Post source for the Group. Japan Post Group Holdings Co. will will continue to seek new sources of revenue through business expansion. Enhancing Corporate Value generate from the planned future sales of shares of the other two financial companies will be used to maintain and enhance corporate and stock value of Japan Post Group. 5 201 Medium-term Strategy 2018 Invested in Aflac Incorporated. Japan Post Holdings Co., Aflac Incorporated and Aflac Life Insurance 2016 Japan Ltd. concluded the Strategic Alliance Based on Capital Relationship. Participated in a regional vitalization fund. Japan Post Group invested in the Kyushu Wide Area Reconstruction Assistance Investment as its first regional vitalization fund. As of March 2019, the Group has participated in 18 Sustainability such funds. 2015 Toll Holdings Limited became our wholly-owned subsidiary. Japan Post Group acquired 100% of issued shares of Toll Holdings Limited, 2017 an Australian logistics company, and made it into its wholly-owned subsidiary. The Post Office Watch Over Service started. Since then, the Group has been Through its directly-operated post offices, Japan promoting the international logistics Post Group started providing the Watch Over Data Compilation business while leveraging Toll as its Service, consisting of Visiting Service, Phone platform. Service and On-call Service. In the future, under the slogan “We work for you because we are close to you,” we will continue to stride forward with the aim of becoming a “Total Lifestyle Support Group.” JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 13 Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Group Value Creation Process Japan Post Group aims to become a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” while working together as Team JP based on our post office network and ensuring universal services. In doing so, we strive to enhance corporate value by achieving sustainable growth of business, securing stable income, demonstrating public benefits and contributions to local communities and enhancing shareholder returns. Policies and Initiatives for Japan Post Group Medium-term Management Plan 2020 (2019/3 to 2021/3) Postal and domestic logistics business Comprehensive review of products and operations systems and vices strengthening of service infrastructure to support an expansion in parcels er Post office business a lS Coexistence with local community by maintaining, strengthening and r s ve maximally utilizing the post office network through deployment of unique and ni diverse post offices in accordance with regional needs, etc. U International logistics business in g Improvements in management of Toll and deployment of contract logistics in id Japan through strengthening synergy between JP and Toll ov Pr Value Banking busines Diversification and sophistication of investment management, expansion of Providing lifelong non-interest revenue and efficient resource allocation support in an age of 100-year life Life insurance business Reversal/growth of policies in force through sales activities focusing on Providing services protection needs and improvement in solicitation quality needed by all people in all age groups Real estate business Japan Post Real Estate Co. established to more effectively develop the assets held by the Group and secure new sources of revenue through joint ventures participation and acquisition of profit-making properties, etc. Growth investments ●Highlyconvenient delivery services Aiming to contribute to profits while taking into consideration investments of ●Comprehensive financial services several hundred billions of yen over a period of three years until 2021/3, ●New services that bring security through considering capital partnerships and M&As in a broad range of fields that will lead to the growth of the Group as a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” and convenience to daily lives Strength 1 Network Strength 2 Customer Base Strength 3 Post Office Brand Strength 4 Strengths Employees of Japan Post Group Strength 5 Financial Base Strengths Value 14 Vision Mediumto Long-term Vision Bring happiness for all people, in a no matter how old they are or Sta Enhancing Corporate Value ble Ma where they live, by providing nn er total lifestyle support services. Creation Supporting local communities across Japan Medium-term Strategy Providing services to resolve issues in local communities by leveraging our operational bases nationwide ●Services to support regional industries ●Services to support local communities ●Services to support funds flow Sustainability Strengthening Business Foundation Data Compilation ●Promotion of work style reforms, development of human resources within the Group and cultivation of a sense of unity throughout the Group ●Sustainable coexistence with local communities, and promotion of activities for reduction of environmental impact and environmental conservation ●Establishment of an IT infrastructure underpinning the Group’s management ●Customer-Oriented business operations, and reinforcement of governance and thorough implementation of compliance Creation Future Vision JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 15 Enhancing Corporate Value Strengths of Japan Post Group Japan Post Group has remained close beside customers and local communities and walked side by side with them in their daily lives mainly through its truly nationwide network of post offices. We will continue to hone our five strengths, namely Network, Customer Base, Post Office Brand, Employees and Financial Base, and provide services that bring convenience to customers’ daily lives. Number of countries with international logistics bases Number of post offices Approx. 50 24,367 Strength 1 Number of postboxes Network 180,774 We have operational bases throughout Japan and provide services while staying close Number of ATMs beside our customers. 29,837 Truly Network Number of postal deliveries made per day Post Approx. 31 million Strength 2 Customer Base Our services are used by Number of ordinary deposit accounts many customers in their 120 million daily lives. Approx. Number of Japan Post Insurance Co. customers* 26.48 million *The number of customers is the sum of policyholders and insured persons (including individual insurance and individual annuities as well as Postal Life Insurance reinsured by Japan Post Insurance Co.) 16 Vision Top 3 customers’ perceived images of post offices Enhancing Corporate Value Strength 3 Rooted in local communities Post Office Brand We have dedicated 40.6 % ourselves to meeting Located everywhere 37.8 customers’ needs since our founding and fostered % the post office brand. Being close and familiar 33.4 Medium-term Strategy % (Q: Please mark all images that you have for post offices.) (Multiple choice survey conducted from October 15 to 22, 2018) Number of employees Nationwide in the four Group companies of Strength 4 Employees 420,000 Regular employees: Sustainability Offices Many employees with professional qualifications 215,000 Non-regular employees: 202,000 provide services that (rounded down to the nearest 1,000) support customers’ daily lives. Number of certification holders at post offices Insurance Agent Certification: 107,591 Securities Sales Representative Data Compilation Certification: 100,481 Financial Planner Certification: Strength 5 60,953 Financial Base Equity capital The Group possesses solid equity capital and Approx. ¥13.3 trillion owns assets, including land and buildings, Real estate held by the Group (book value) ¥2.7 trillion across Japan. Approx. (As of March 31, 2019) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 17 Enhancing Corporate Value Value Created by Japan Post Group (1) Providing Lifelong Support Japan Post Group supports customers to realize safe, secure, comfortable and affluent lives and lifestyles by providing services needed by all people in all age groups. Japan Post Group has supported customers’ daily lives by providing the essential life infrastructure of postal, banking and insurance services through post offices. Japan Post Group will continue to provide services needed by all people in all age groups to enable customers to realize safe, secure, comfortable and affluent lives and lifestyles. By providing such lifelong support to each customer in an age of 100-year life, we will endeavor to enhance our corporate value. Value Created Providing Lifelong Support in an Age of 100-Year Life Services that bring security and Highly convenient delivery services Comprehensive financial services convenience to daily lives Provide highly convenient delivery Provide comprehensive financial Provide new services that bring security services in a stable manner through services for people of all generations and convenience to daily lives. further enhancement of the logistics with a focus on life planning, such as network and sophistication of services. savings, asset-building, protection by insurance and inheritance. Our Current Value Creation Efforts Providing Highly Convenient Delivery Services We are working to provide highly convenient delivery services in response to changes in lifestyles and society, including the expansion of the e-commerce market and an increase in double-income and single-person households. Improving Yu-Pack service to increase convenience in sending and receiving parcels As an effort to offer greater convenience in sending YuPack parcels, we rolled out Yu-Pack Smartphone Discount, a new service using a free dedicated smartphone app, in September 2018. Customers can send Yu-Pack parcels more easily and at a discount rate by downloading the app onto their smartphones and using a credit card to make payment on the app. To increase convenience on the receiving side, we started e-Receiving Assist in March 2019. This new service notifies the expected delivery date and time of Yu-Pack parcels via e-mail or LINE and allows customers to change the date, time or where to receive the parcel (including convenience stores) or specify a place to leave the parcel around their home. 18 Providing Comprehensive Financial Services To respond to an aging society, lower birthrate and population decline as well as changes in society toward an age of 100-year life, we are deploying unique and diverse post offices as well as products and services matched to customers’ needs. Vision Opening and operating unique and diverse post offices We are promoting the opening of post offices according facilities. Some post offices are open on Saturdays and to the varying lifestyles of customers. Currently, we Sundays or have counter business hours matched to operate 86 post offices co-located with convenience their locations. Individual post offices also provide stores, 33 in shopping malls and 15 in local government products and services tailored to different local needs. Enhancing Corporate Value Enhancing the lineup of financial products and promoting comprehensive financial services At the counter of post offices nationwide, “professional” offices handle medical insurance with eased staff members provide comprehensive financial underwriting conditions, individual variable annuities, services, including savings, insurance and asset Post Office’s Auto Insurance and JP Life Support management, to support the needs and life stage of Insurance. each customer. There are a total of 107,591 members Based on the Cabinet Ordinance for Partial Revision holding Insurance Agent Certification, 100,481 holders of the Order for Enforcement of the Postal Service of Securities Sales Representative Certification and Privatization Act, the following changes were made to 60,953 holders of Financial Planner Certification. We deposit limits on April 1, 2019. (No change has been have also enhanced our services to help customers made to the scope of deposit protection provided Medium-term Strategy build assets for the future by starting to handle under the deposit insurance system.) installment-type NISAs and launching a face-to-face 1. Ordinary deposits: ¥13 million consultation service for iDeCo (individual-type defined 2.  Time deposits (TEIGAKU deposits and time contribution pension plan) at 1,540 post offices handling deposits) (including postal savings made before investment trusts and some 18,000 post offices privatization and transferred to the Organization engaging in asset-building consultation and making for Postal Savings, Postal Life Insurance and investment trust referrals. In the field of insurance, we Post Office Network, and excluding (3) below): sell a variety of products under consignment from other ¥13 million life and non-life insurance companies, along with 3. Asset-formation TEIGAKU deposits, assetinsurance products of Japan Post Insurance Co., to formation annuity TEIGAKU deposits and assetmeet the different needs of customers. All post offices formation housing TEIGAKU deposits: ¥5.5 Sustainability handling insurance products (excluding contracted million in aggregate post offices) sell cancer insurance, while some post Providing New Services That Bring Security and Convenience to Daily Lives We are promoting the provision of services that bring security and convenience to the daily life of each customer while responding to more diverse lifestyles and wider use of Internet of Things (IoT) technology. Enhancing cashless services Data Compilation In collaboration with GMO Payment Gateway, Inc., we When a customer having an account with Japan Post released Yucho Pay, a new payment settlement service Bank Co. makes payment at a partner store of the Bank available on smartphones on May 8, 2019. This service using Yucho Pay, the dedicated smartphone app aims to support the daily lives of customers and instantly transfers the corresponding amount from the promote the provision of “new convenience” to them by pre-registered account. utilizing new technologies. Providing the Post Office Watch Over Service We are providing the Watch Over Service where staff of the neighborhood post office visit and talk with elderly customers who are living separately and report their conditions to family members. In addition to the Visiting Service, where post office staff directly pay visits, we are also offering the Phone Service and an optional On-call Service in order to provide greater support to families living separately. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 19 Enhancing Corporate Value Value Created by Japan Post Group (2) Supporting Local Communities Japan Post Group seeks coexistence with local communities by providing services that help resolve their issues while leveraging its operational bases nationwide. Japan Post Group has provided services to support local communities through its nationwide network of post offices. Japan Post Group will continue to support local communities and provide services to help resolve their issues by leveraging our operational bases nationwide. By doing so, we seek coexistence with local communities while serving as a partner to co-create regional vibrancy and as a source of community security. Value Created Supporting Local Communities across Japan Services to support Services to support Services to support funds flow regional industries local communities Support local companies in such areas Maintain and revitalize local Vitalize regional economies by flowing as logistics, financial services and real communities (such as maintaining the back funds for local companies. estate, and contribute to regional local infrastructure by continuing some revitalization. services of companies that have withdrawn from the region or undertaking some of the administrative work of the local government). Our Current Value Creation Efforts Providing Services to Support Regional Industries For the development and growth of regional economies across Japan, we are offering services needed for corporate business activities and undertaking initiatives to vitalize each local community. Promoting comprehensive logistics business in Japan and overseas We undertake the international logistics business engage in business-to-business (BtoB) transactions, through the bases operated by Toll Holdings Limited, mainly contract logistics, through JP TOLL LOGISTICS an Australian logistics company, in more than 50 Co., a joint venture established by the two companies countries across the world. In Japan, in order to on October 1, 2018. increase synergy between Toll and Japan Post Co., we Engaging in the real estate business, including leasing of offices, commercial facilities, residences, nursery schools and facilities for the elderly In addition to leasing buildings and commercial facilities consideration of the recent social background and in central Tokyo and in station-front areas in local cities, business feasibility. In February 2019, we constructed a we provide the “JP noie” series of rental housing mainly complex combining a nursery school and a facility for in Tokyo. We have also been promoting the development the elderly in Toshima-ku, Tokyo, and leased the entire of nursery schools and facilities for the elderly in facility to an operator, who opened it in spring 2019. 20 Providing Services to Support Local Communities To maintain local communities not just in large cities but across Japan and help them achieve sustainable growth, we are carrying out initiatives to support people’s daily lives in local communities. Providing various services through collaboration agreements with local governments Vision As of March 31, 2019, Japan Post Co. concluded over children and elderly persons to ensure safe and comprehensive collaboration agreements with 28 secure lives, holding fairs at post offices, KITTE and prefectures for the purpose of contributing to regional other facilities to sell local specialties for the revitalization revitalization and local communities. We have also of regional economies and issuing framed stamps concluded agreements with 1,678 municipalities for featuring local tourist and landmark spots. “community watch activities,” “providing information We also installed kiosk terminals (multifunctional Enhancing Corporate Value about road damage” and “providing information about copy machines) at 44 post offices throughout Japan illegal dumping,” in which employees report anything and provide services for unusual they notice during the course of their work. customers to use their My Additionally, to help ensure mutual cooperation during Number card or basic disasters, we have concluded disaster prevention resident registration card at agreements with 1,552 municipalities and are building these terminals to directly cooperative relationships for times of emergency. acquire various formal Under these agreements, we are engaging in specific documents issued by local initiatives matched to the needs of each local governments. community, including conducting activities to watch Medium-term Strategy Expanding our ATM network throughout Japan We are installing ATMs at and relocating the existing Bank ATMs in its all branches. ATMs to highly convenient locations to expand our ATM Additionally, in order to increase convenience for network and offer greater convenience to customers. local customers, we have been leasing a space within Since January 2017, in anticipation of an increase in post offices to other financial institutions for installing tourists visiting Japan, we have been introducing their ATMs and providing some of their services at post compact ATMs with a 16-language compatibility at offices. For example, we installed an ATM of Miyazaki FamilyMart convenience stores, airports and other Bank in the Kamishiiba Post Office in July 2017 and an locations frequently visited by foreign users. ATM of The Bank of Toyama in the Takaoka Post Office We have also been proactively forming alliances in April 2019. Sustainability with regional financial institutions. In August 2018, we We will continue to collaborate and cooperate with started replacing existing ATMs of Aozora Bank with each financial institution as an effort to maintain the ATMs of Japan Post Bank Co. Aozora Bank was the financial infrastructure in each community. first regional financial institution to install Japan Post Providing Services to Support Funds Flow To flow back the important funds of our customers to ● Funds flow to local communities local communities and contribute to the development Data Compilation Collaboration with regional financial institutions and growth of regional economies across Japan, we are promoting collaboration with regional financial ● Building good relations with, and Contributing to the Investment through institutions and local governments. regional vitalization funds ● Making our platform available development and growth to regional financial institutions of local economies Promoting participating in regional vitalization Stabilization of funds Improvement of profitability financial system In line with our efforts to direct the important funds of of Japan Post Bank Co. our customers to local communities, we have been Achievement of Win-Win-Win by satisfying funding needs working with local financial institutions to actively Local companies Diversification of acquiring funding promote participation in regional vitalization funds. Regional financial institutions Supply of short-term and operating funds We invested in six funds, mainly focused on Japan Post Bank Co. Supply of equity funding supporting business succession and entrepreneurship in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. We currently participate in 18 such funds. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 21 Medium-term Strategy Structure of Japan Post Group Japan Post Group aims to become a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” through the nationwide post office network, by providing a variety of products and services mainly in its three core businesses of postal services, banking and life insurance, while deeply engaging in all aspects of customers' lives, and constantly helping customers and local communities. The Government Japan Post Holdings Co. of Japan Japan Post Holdings shall aim to dispose of all of its shares in Japan Post Bank and in Obligated to hold more than 1/3 Obligated to hold 100% Japan Post Insurance as soon as possible while considering the management situation at Customers (The Postal Service Privatization Act) (The Postal Service Privatization Act) Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance and the effects, etc. on performance of obligations to provide universal services to the Japanese public. (The Postal Service Privatization Act) Local communities Providing products Shareholding ratio Shareholding ratio Shareholding ratio and services and Approximately 56.9%*1 Approximately 89%*2 Approximately 89%*3 contributing to local communities Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Post offices Japan Post Group *1 Shareholding ratio to the total number of issued shares (as of March 31, 2019) *2 Shareholding ratio to the voting shares except for treasury shares (as of March 31, 2019) *3 Shareholding ratio to the total number of issued shares (as of March 31, 2019) In April 2019, Japan Post Holdings Co. sold a part of its common stock of Japan Post Insurance Co. for the second time. Following the sale and after Japan Post Insurance Co. bought back its shares, the ratio to the common stock of Japan Post Insurance Co. held by Japan Post Holdings Co. dropped to approximately 64%. Postal and Domestic Logistics Business Banking Business Japan Post Transport Co. Japan Post Investment Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries Japan Post Maintenance Co. JP Asset Management Co.* Japan Post Sankyu Global Logistics Co. SDP Center Co.* JP Biz Mail Co. ATM Japan Business Service, Ltd.* JP Media Direct Co. Tokyo Beiyu Co. Post Office Business Japan Post Trading Service Co. Life Insurance Business Japan Post Building Management Co. Japan Post Insurance System Solutions Co. Japan Post Communications Co. Japan Post Office Support Co. JP General Insurance Agency Co. JP Mitsukoshi Merchandising Co. Other Business YY Gift Co. Japan Post Staff Co. JP Tokyo Tokusenkai Co. Yusei Challenged Co. Saison Asset Management Co.* Japan Post Hotel Service Co. JA Foods Oita Co.* Japan Post Information Technology Co. Ringbell Co.* Japan Post Capital Co. Japan Post Real Estate Co. International Logistics Business System Trust Laboratory Co. Toll Holdings Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries JP Twoway Contact Co. JP Toll Logistics Co. Toll Express Japan Co. * Affiliated company accounted for under the equity method Affiliates of Toll Holdings Limited* (As of March 31, 2019) 22 Medium-term Strategy Medium-term Management Plan Overview of Medium-term Management Plan 2020 (2018 – 2020)* *Published on May 15, 2018 Aim for securing stable income and a start toward sustainable growth in a difficult environment. Vision Basic policies 1 Development of business that supports the total lifestyles of customers 2 Securing stable income for the Group 3 Development of environment that enables employees to 4 Development of new businesses aimed at future growth demonstrate their full capabilities Aim to become a Total Lifestyle Support Enhancing Corporate Value Group as Team JP with ensuring universal services, working together as a Group centered around the post office network Total Lifestyle Support Group Medium-term Management • Sustainable growth of business Medium-term Plan 2020 • Securing stable income Medium-term Strategy Management Plan Aim for securing stable • Demonstrating public —New Japan Post Group Network Creation Plan 2017— income and a start benefits and contributions Promotion of Group toward sustainable growth to local communities in a difficult environment strategies to achieve growth and development 2015 2017 2018 2020 Basic Policies by Business Sustainability Business fields Basic policies ❶ Postal and domestic Comprehensive review of products and operations systems and logistics business strengthening of service infrastructure to support an expansion in parcels Coexistence with local community by maintaining, strengthening and ❷ Post office business maximally utilizing the post office network through deployment of unique and diverse post offices in accordance with regional needs, etc. Data Compilation ❸ International logistics Improvements in management of Toll and deployment of contract logistics in business Japan through strengthening synergy between JP and Toll Diversification and sophistication of investment management, expansion of ❹ Banking business non-interest revenue and efficient resource allocation Reversal/growth of policies in force through sales activities focusing on ❺ Life insurance business protection needs and improvement in solicitation quality JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 23 Medium-term Strategy Medium-term Management Plan Numerical targets for 2021/3 and dividend policy Results for 2019/3 Group consolidated Group consolidated Earnings per share of at least 100 yen* Earnings per share 118.57yen Dividends per share of at least 50 yen Dividends per share 50 yen (Implementation of stable dividends) * Assuming the current number of issued shares (excluding treasury stock), net income attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co. of approximately 405 billion yen Japan Post Co. Japan Post Co. ● Consolidated net operating income 90 billion yen ● Consolidated net operating income 182.0 billion yen Postal and domestic logistics business 40 billion yen Postal and domestic logistics business 121.3 billion yen Post office business 30 billion yen Post office business 59.6 billion yen International logistics business 20 billion yen International logistics business 10.3 billion yen ● Consolidated net income 65 billion yen ● Consolidated net income 126.6 billion yen ● Number of Yu-Pack handled ● Number of Yu-Pack handled Approx. +200 million (compared to FY2018/3) Approx. 940 million (+60 million) Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Bank Co. ● Consolidated net ordinary income 390 billion yen ● Consolidated net ordinary income 373.9 billion yen ● Consolidated net income 280 billion yen (Reference) Earnings per share: 74 yen ● Consolidated net income 266.1 billion yen ● Secure capital adequacy ratio of about 10% ● Capital adequacy ratio (After consideration of strengthening of financial regulations) (non-consolidated, domestic standard) 15.78% ● Net assets of investment trusts ● Investment trusts balance about +1.7 trillion yen* +643.6 billion yen ● Secure dividends per share of 50 yen ● Dividends per share 50 yen (Implementation of stable dividends) * The cumulative total of “sales amount cancellation amount” for 3 years (not market price basis). Japan Post Insurance Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. ● Aim for reversal and growth of annualized ● Annualized premiums for policies in force premiums for policies in force* 4.67 trillion yen ● Earnings per share 155 yen ● Earnings per share 200.86 yen (Reference) Consolidated net income: 93 billion yen ● Dividends per share 72 yen ● Aim to increase dividends per share to 76 yen while ensuring the soundness of management * We recognize that we are presently facing difficulties to achieve the target for annualized premiums for policies in force for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 (approximately ¥4.9 trillion). We aim to reverse the downward trend and achieve growth during the period covered by the medium-term management plan. Note: Interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices, which are the premise of each numerical target, are set based on the situation at the end of December 2017. 24 Investment Plan for the Period Covered by the Medium-term Management Plan (2018 – 2020) Under the Medium-term Management Plan, we plan to promote infrastructure improvements to increase customer satisfaction, sales capabilities and operational efficiencies, which will ultimately strengthen our management foundations. Our plan includes investment in: post office and other construction work in the postal and domestic logistics business and the post office business; real estate development in the post office business; building of a new Vision accounting system in the international logistics business; purchase of ATMs in the banking business; and building of a next-generation open system in the life insurance business. Business segment Amount (Total investment Details (Total for 2018– Effect for 2018-2020) 2020) Enhancing Corporate Value Post office and other construction 78 billion yen Postal and Improving service environment work domestic logistics Postal system renewal and 30 billion yen (180 billion yen) Periodic postal system renewal and upgrading upgrading Real estate development 180 billion yen Expansion of real estate revenue Post office Post office and other construction (270 billion yen) 60 billion yen Improving service environment work International Renewal of ship 15 billion yen Achieving stable business operation logistics Building of a new accounting system 12 billion yen IT infrastructure renewal and upgrading (150 billion yen) Development of a total information Improving customer convenience and operation efficiency and 30 billion yen system securing stable business operation Renewal of auto cashier 22 billion yen Strengthening internal controls on cash management Banking Reconstruction of an Operation Reconstructing of buildings that have become too old or too (130 billion yen) 20 billion yen Medium-term Strategy Support Center narrow Improving customer convenience and secure stable business Purchase of ATMs 19 billion yen operation Building of a next-generation open 49 billion yen Improving a system infrastructure for utilization of ICT system Life insurance Improving customer convenience through the provision of new Development of core systems 41 billion yen (150 billion yen) products and services, and operation efficiency Introduction of new mobile devices 12 billion yen Improving customer convenience and operation efficiency for sales Others Building of a data center 34 billion yen Strengthening management foundations (120 billion yen) Next generation PNET 30 billion yen Strengthening management foundations Notes: 1. The table shows our investment plan as of May 15, 2018 when the Medium-term Management Plan 2020 was announced. 2. The table does not include growth investments, such as capital partnerships and M&As. Sustainability In addition to the above, we plan to carry out against our investment judgement criteria. To finance appropriate capital partnerships and M&As in a broad such partnerships and M&As, we plan to utilize our range of fields, which will lead to the growth of Japan existing cash flow, borrowings backed by our abundant Post Group as a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” and borrowing capacity and proceeds from the sale of serve to enhance the Group’s and Group companies’ shares of Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post corporate value, after carefully judging each case Insurance Co. Shareholder Return Policy Data Compilation Japan Post Holdings Co. considers returning profits to addition, it is stipulated that dividends from retained shareholders to be an important management measure earnings are to be paid with March 31 and September and sets out its basic policy to continuously provide 30 of each year as record dates. stable return to shareholders in accordance with the With regard to dividends from retained earnings for results of operations. which the record date falls in the fiscal year ended With regard to dividends from retained earnings, the March 31, 2019, based on a comprehensive judgement Company aims to provide stable returns to shareholders of the consolidated financial results and other factors, while maintaining required internal reserves and paying the annual dividend on common stock was ¥50 (of attention to capital efficiency. Accordingly, the Company which interim dividend of ¥25) per share. intends to sustain stable dividends per share. Internal reserves will be utilized mainly for The decision-making body concerning dividends investments to capture growth opportunities and from retained earnings is set to be the Board of Directors capital policies with awareness on capital efficiency, as per the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation in aiming at enhancement of corporate value. order to ensure flexible management operations. In JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 25 Medium-term Strategy Top Messages from Each Company Aiming to Contribute to the Realization of Enriched Lives and to Secure Sustainable Earnings The environment surrounding Japan Post Co. is evolving every moment, as evidenced by such developments as the advance of a decreasing population, ultra-declining birthrates and aging population; the diversification of settlement methods; and the emergence of innovative new digital technologies. In Japan Post Co.’s business as well, difficult conditions such as the downtrend in mail and a persistently low interest rate environment are expected to continue. Under such conditions, to sustainably grow our businesses, I believe we must grasp these changes in the business environment and make quick responses a step ahead of the times rather than only relying on conventional experience and knowhow. In working to realize this sustainable growth, our greatest strength Kunio Yokoyama is our network of 24,000 post offices. This postal network is unique to President & CEO Japan Post Co. and represents a valuable asset created together with Japan Post Co., Ltd. Vigorously Promoting Three Pillars in Aiming to Be a Bank that Continues Mediumand Long-term Growth During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Japan Post Bank Co. steadily promoted the three pillars embodied in the Medium-term Management Plan and solidified its foundation for growth toward the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 and onward. First, to respond to rising customer needs for asset building, we made efforts to strengthen investment trust sales in collaboration with post offices. To this end, we expanded the number of post offices handling investment trusts to 1,540 post offices as of the end of March 2019. Additionally, we reviewed our product composition to realize a more-simplified lineup that is easier for customers to understand and increased and nurtured financial consultants. In our ATM strategy, we proactively promoted collaboration with regional financial institutions and Norito Ikeda replaced existing ATMs with Japan Post Bank Co. ATMs in branches of Director, President and Representative Executive Officer Aozora Bank In May 2019, we began handling Yucho Pay, a new Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. Providing Security to Customers and Aiming for Sustainable Growth We have established “pursue customer-first business operations,” “achieve sustainable growth,” and “maintain sound business operations” as our fundamental management approach, with the aim of increasing profit in both sales and asset management in an extremely low interest rate environment, as well as reversing the declining trend and achieving growth in annualized premiums from policies in force. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we have strengthened sales activities focusing on protection needs, and made efforts to cultivate new customer bases, including the uninsured as well as the young and middle-aged. As a result, annualized premiums from new policies for individual insurance amounted to ¥351.3 billion (6.6% decrease year on year). However, we have steadily increased the number Mitsuhiko Uehira of new policies for ordinary whole life insurance (increased amount type) Director and President, CEO, and special endowment insurance with high protection features, which Representative Executive Officer together accounted for nearly 50% of all new policies. Annualized Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. 26 our customers. By fully leveraging this one-and-only postal network, Co., launched in October 2018. providing products and services that respond to the needs of society and Moreover, in adhering to the basic concept that compliance is our undertaking efficient operations, we aim to contribute to the realization most important management issue, we will steadily work to provide of enriched lives and to secure stable profits into the future. thoroughgoing customer-first services in collaboration with other In the postal and domestic logistics business, we will provide high business partners that include Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Vision value-added products and services with convenience that make it easier Insurance Co. for customers to send and receive parcels. Concurrently, we will also In the future as well, we will work to maintain and enhance our best work to improve business efficiency by proactively introducing cuttingbrand, which is the security provided by and trust in post offices, and edge technologies such as drones and self-driving vehicles. uphold our social mission of operating post offices that co-exist with and In the post office business, to promote the trend of people shifting support local communities. away from savings toward asset-building, we will work to support assetWe will also further enhance the appeal of post offices and operate building and people’s life plans and expand new customer segments by exciting post offices with diverse and distinctive features that meet Enhancing Corporate Value proposing services tailored to the life stages of each customer. customer needs and even make people say, “I want to visit the post In the international logistics business, we will progress with growth office” or “I’m glad I went to the post office.” strategies for improving profits while supporting domestic B2B We appreciate your patronage and continued use of our post offices. transactions and providing integrated and optimal logistics services in Japan and overseas by leveraging synergies with JP TOLL LOGISTICS smartphone settlement service. We are now proactively cultivating new and thus vitalize regional communities. We will also promote collaboration outlets where this service can be used to raise convenience for and further strengthen relationships with regional financial institutions in customers. service-related areas such as collaboration in the use of ATM networks Medium-term Strategy In investment management, we will strive to secure stable earnings and promoting common back-office procedures as we grow together. under appropriate risk management by promoting internationally In working to strengthen corporate governance, we will expand the diversified investments through the effective utilization of capital and scope of our risk appetite framework, the core of risk governance, from expanding investments in risk assets to improve profitability. Among risk our asset liability management (ALM) and asset management operations assets, we will selectively execute alternative investments based on to encompass our entire business operations for the purpose of changes in the market environment. It has been more than one year increasing the sophistication of our business management system. since the establishment of Japan Post Investment Corporation in Additionally, we will further strengthen anti-money laundering and February 2018, and with five investment projects so far, progress has countering terrorist financing measures. been generally in line with our expectations. we will bolster our research I will execute management with a sense of passion and responsibility capabilities and focus human and capital resources in areas that appear to enable Japan Post Bank Co. to realize further growth and share the likely to exhibit growth. value created by this growth with shareholders and investors. As we We also participate in regional vitalization funds and as of March 31, pursue these objectives, I ask for your continued support and patronage. 2019 we increased the regional vitalization funds we have invested in to Sustainability 18 funds. Through these equity funds, we aim to circulate equity funds in premiums from new policies for third-sector insurance amounted to Post Co. to conduct “customer-first sales activities.” ¥61.6 billion (4.1% increase year on year), marking a record high. Currently, we deliver peace of mind in the form of insurance to the Looking at policies in force as of March 31, 2019, although people of Japan, via approximately 20,000 post offices located annualized premiums from policies in force for individual insurance were nationwide. We will never cease fulfilling our mission of protecting on a declining trend amounting to ¥4,677.1 billion (3.8% decrease year people’s well-being through insurance, while also contributing to our on year), annualized premiums from policies in force for third-sector customers as a member of the Japan Post Group. Leveraging our Data Compilation insurance amounted to ¥753.1 billion (0.3% increase year on year), and “trustworthy” and “reliable” brand image accumulated over the years as were on an increasing trend. Moving forward, we aim to reverse the assets, we will do our best to stay by our customers’ sides, and continue current pattern, and achieve a growth in annualized premiums from to earn their trust and affection. policies in force during this Medium-term Management Plan period, by In these endeavors, we request and appreciate your everlasting strengthening sales focused on protection, cultivating new customer patronage. bases, and improving solicitation quality and working to increase our policy maintenance rate by pursuing customer-first business operations. An important mission of all life insurance companies is to provide long-term protection and peace of mind, by providing attentive explanations, while grasping the intentions of our customers, and ensuring that they purchase insurance with adequate understanding and consent. In order to achieve this mission, we are collaborating with Japan JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 27 Medium-term Strategy Postal and Domestic Logistics Business Segment In the postal and domestic logistics business, we conduct comprehensive reviews of product and operations systems and strengthen service infrastructure to support an expansion in parcels. Business Overview In addition to providing postal services at the fairest possible rates across Japan, Japan Post Co. is commissioned by the Japanese government to sell documentary stamps and issues donation-added New Year’s postcards. Japan Post Co. provides Yu-Pack, Yu-Mail and other parcel delivery services as well as logistics services from the design, proposal and formation to operation of an optimal logistics strategy for customers in order to meet diverse customer needs in line with growth in the e-commerce market. Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2019 In the postal and domestic logistics business, operating income increased, mainly due to the rise in income in the parcel field in line with the revision of price per unit and increased volume of Yu-Pack handled. Despite an increase in operating expenses in line with this, the amount was more than offset by the increase in operating income. As a result, ordinary income amounted to ¥2,119,332 million (up ¥93,795 million year-on-year) and net ordinary income amounted to ¥124,457 million (up ¥80,720 million year-on-year). In addition, operating income amounted to ¥2,114,950 million (up ¥92,423 million year-on-year) and net operating income amounted to ¥121,388 million (up ¥79,484 million yearon-year) in the postal and domestic logistics business of Japan Post Co. (consolidated) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. ● Operating income ● Net operating income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) 2,500,000 150,000 2,114,950 121,388 2,022,526 2,000,000 1,929,928 120,000 1,500,000 90,000 1,000,000 60,000 41,903 500,000 30,000 12,053 0 0 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Strengths Challenges Future policy • Ability to deliver to 31 million • Continued decline in the • Conduct comprehensive locations daily volume of mail due primarily to reviews of products and • Efficient delivery of small proliferation of the Internet operations systems parcels through the use of • Increase in parcel redelivery, • E xpand measures to increase motorcycles difficulty in securing labor and revenue • High-quality parcel pickup and rising labor unit costs, etc. • Strengthen service infrastrucdelivery service • Decrease in sufficient workers ture to support an expansion in for the future parcels • Enhance convenience and productivity for the future through utilization of advanced 28 technology Future Growth Strategy Conduct comprehensive reviews of products and operations systems Amid a decline in the volume of mail due mainly to ● Image of business (revenue) ratio proliferation of the Internet, demand for Yu-Pack and 2017 2024～2027 Vision other such services is increasing primarily on the back of expansion in the e-commerce market. In order to Parcel respond to this environment, we will work to provide ¥0.6 trillion Parcel highly convenient postal, pickup and delivery services, Mail ¥1 trillion Mail and conduct reviews of products, services and operations to meet growing demand for small parcels Enhancing Corporate Value with the aim of strengthening postal and logistics functions and securing stable profits. Expand revenue In response to changes in lifestyle and society, including ● Volume handled an increase in double-income and single-person 17.2 15.4 households, we will continue working to provide highly Approx. 12.5 billion Mail convenient postal, pickup and delivery services. In addition, we will strive to maintain and expand the use Medium-term Management Plan period of mail primarily by providing social media-related Medium-term Strategy Approx. 1.5 billion Yu-Pack services using smartphones and other devices, 1.05 0.88 including New Year’s postcards, and activities conveying the joy of letter-writing. We will also seek to 2017 2018 2019 2020 2024～2027 increase revenue by creating and strengthening a sales system that can meet diverse customer needs. Strengthen service infrastructure to support an expansion in parcels With the aim of enhancing operational efficiency at post ● Trends in volume of items handled offices, we will strive to strengthen service infrastructure (Volume of items handled in millions) 21,926 △0.9％ △1.7％ 22,500 21,735 21,373 to support an expansion in parcels. Specifically, we will 697 ＋25.6％ 876 ＋7.6％ 942 Yu-Pack* 20,000 3,498 ＋4.0％ enhance productivity of pickup and delivery services 3,637 Sustainability ＋0.4％ 3,650 Yu-Mail 17,500 through a review of operations, bolster transport 15,000 capacity through the borrowing of facilities, and 17,730 △2.9％ 17,222 △2.6％ 16,781 Mail increase efficiency and transport capacity through a 12,500 review of transport methods for Yu-Pack and other 0 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) items. By doing so, we seek to establish a facility, *Including Yu-Packet transport and pickup/delivery system that meets the increase in parcels. In addition, to secure the necessary labor force for operations we will undertake regionspecific and effective measures to recruit workers and Data Compilation lay the groundwork for them to stay on the job. Enhance convenience and productivity for the future through utilization of advanced technology In order to improve efficiency in delivery operations and other areas, we are pushing ahead with the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of things (IoT) through co-creation with a startup company as a means to visualize business and enhance productivity. In addition, we will actively utilize advanced technology such as drones, delivery robots and automated driving. Utilizing self-driving cars JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 29 Medium-term Strategy Post Office Business Segment In the post office business, we will strive to ensure harmonious coexistence with the local community by maintaining, strengthening and making maximum use of our post office network through the deployment of unique and diverse post offices in accordance with regional needs. Business Overview In the post office business, in addition to counter operations related to postal and logistics business, we provide banking counter operations commissioned from Japan Post Bank Co. and insurance counter operations commissioned from Japan Post Insurance Co., as well as merchandise business, real estate business and affiliated financial services at post offices nationwide, which serve as sales hubs for providing services to customers. Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2019 In the post office business, operating income remained roughly on par with the previous fiscal year. The fall in insurance commissions in line with a decrease in new policy sales for Japan Post Insurance Co. and lower income in the merchandise business due to the contraction of certain businesses were offset by increases in postal service and banking commissions associated with increases in acceptance and sales at post offices, and by increases in income from third-party financial product agency services and the real estate business, which were both steady. On the other hand, operating expenses decreased year-on-year and, as a result, ordinary income amounted to ¥1,363,757 million (up ¥3,081 million year-on-year), and net ordinary income amounted to ¥59,840 million (up ¥18,856 million year-on-year). In addition, operating income amounted to ¥1,362,579 million (up ¥3,780 million year-on-year) and net operating income amounted to ¥59,619 million (up ¥19,848 million year-on-year) in the post office business of Japan Post Co. (consolidated) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. ● Operating income ● Net operating income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) 1,500,000 1,386,456 80,000 1,358,798 1,362,579 63,334 1200,000 59,619 60,000 900,000 39,771 40,000 600,000 20,000 300,000 0 0 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Strengths Challenges Future policy • A post office network of over • Maintain and strengthen post • Develop unique and diverse 24,000 locations throughout office network in regions where post offices in accordance with Japan the population is declining regional needs • Provision of diverse products • Decrease in the volume of mail • Strengthen competitiveness by and services inside and outside handled in line with the populaenhancing sales productivity the Group tion decline • Promote greater efficiency in counter operations, etc. 30 Future Growth Strategy Develop unique and diverse post offices in accordance with regional needs In order to develop unique and diverse post offices in accordance ● Examples of unique and diverse post with regional needs, we will work to expand products and offices that meet regional needs Vision services that utilize our post office network and provide products Post Office A (Operating hours: 9:00 to 17:00) Watch Over Service and services that meet regional needs. In addition, we will Universal services (postal, banking and insurance) Merchandising ＋ Contracted administration from municipalities Coordination with regional financial institutions, etc. ensure diversification of counter business hours in line with local needs and make changes for each location. Post Office B (Operating hours: 10:00 to 20:00) ・・・ ＋ Financial consulting Universal services Various financial products Watch Over Service To enhance customer convenience, we will continue striving Merchandising (postal, banking and insurance) (including third sector) to optimize the post office network, for example, by establishing Enhancing Corporate Value new post offices that will include branches adjacent to convenience stores, inside shopping centers and in local government facilities, and by reviewing post office locations. We will also facilitate greater utilization of our post office network by leasing certain post office assets to other companies. The Watch Over Service will continue to be provided with the aim of increasing the convenience of local customers and contributing to safe and secure living. Strengthen competitiveness by enhancing sales productivity Medium-term Strategy To enhance sales productivity, we will reinforce employees’ sales capabilities through various training programs. We will also provide comprehensive financial consulting services in order to recommend products and services that meet customer needs. In addition, we will strive to establish sales foundations by increasing the number of off-site sales personnel and expanding and utilizing sales support systems. Through these initiatives, we will enhance our competitiveness, promote the shift away from savings toward asset building, and maintain and increase the number of insurance policies in force at Japan Post Insurance Co. while working to improve business quality. Expand assets under management such as asset building products by strengthening ties with our two financial institutions and enhancing sales productivity, etc. Business partners outside the Group Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Sustainability (life and non-life insurance companies, etc.) ✓Expand existing products and services and provide new products and services ✓Provide financial knowledge and increase sales skills through training, etc. Japan Post Co. Postal and logistics business Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. contracting business Affiliated financial services, merchandising, etc Expand post offices handling investment trusts, increase off-site sales personnel, and expand and utilize customer database, etc. Post offices: Approx. 24,000 locations / Off-site personnel: Approx. 18,000 Data Compilation Customers Promote greater efficiency in counter operations, etc. By deploying various cash management machines such as automatic cash dispensers at all post office counters, we aim to mechanize cash management that was previously partially handled by hand and enhance the efficiency of daily fund management operations at post offices. A cash management machine installed in a post office JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 31 Medium-term Strategy International Logistics Business Segment We are going to achieve the provision of seamless solutions by rolling out integrated logistics services in Japan and overseas through the development of contract logistics in the domestic market, enhancing Toll’s growth strategy and the synergy between Japan Post Co. and Toll. Business Overview Toll Holdings Limited and the companies under its umbrella provide the services of express and freight forwarding in Australia and New Zealand, a full line of international freight forwarding services, chiefly to exports from Asia, and other logistics services to sectors of natural resources industry and governmental operations as a 3PL provider in the Asia-Pacific Region including transport and warehousing services. Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2019 In the international logistics segment, ordinary income amounted to ¥701,256 million (down ¥3,634 million year-onyear) and net ordinary income amounted to ¥5,094 million (down ¥1,449 million year-on-year). As for Japan Post Co., (consolidated), operating income amounted to ¥700,650 million (down ¥3,652 million year-on-year) and net operating income (EBIT) amounted to ¥10,300 million (up ¥45 million year-on-year) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. This result was primarily driven by the increase in profits in the section of Corporate/Other, even though we experienced net operating income (EBIT) declines in the units of Global Express, Global Logistics and Global Forwarding due to China’s economic slowdown and temporary expense increases to address the natural disasters that occurred. ● Operating income ● Net operating income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) 800,000 12,000 704,302 700,650 10,254 10,300 644,416 10,000 600,000 8,000 400,000 6,000 5,642 4,000 200,000 2,000 0 0 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Strengths Challenges Future policy • International logistics hubs in • Focus on growth fields • Toll’s growth strategy approximately 50 countries • Establishment of an effective • Enhancement of corporate • Toll City, cargo vessels, and integrated IT system and rollout platform and utilization of other facilities to meet demand of state-of-the-art cutting-edge technology in rapidly growing fields administrative systems • Advancement of the synergy including pharmaceuticals • Exercise of the synergy between between Japan Post Co. and Japan Post Co. and Toll Toll, and expansion of revenue 32 Future Growth Strategy Toll’s growth strategy Japan Post Co. aims to establish solid market positions in major markets by focusing on the industries of energy, retail, Vision and industrials. We will allocate our business resources concentrating to profitable areas and the regions with high growth potentials including the Oceania Region and Singapore, in which Toll chiefly operates, and Asia and the United States that are rapidly growing. The Global Forwarding division will also focus on the trade lanes (between China and the United Enhancing Corporate Value States, among Asian countries, and between Asia and Oceania) that are experiencing high growth. The Global Express Toll logistics facility division will aim to take advantage of the growth in the e-commerce market. The Global Logistics division will incorporate the rapid growth in the industries of pharmaceutical and technology as well as the fields of governmental operations, natural resources, and retail in which Toll has expertise. Strengthen corporate foundations and respond to technological advances Japan Post Co. will engage in the reformation of our IT infrastructure and platform including the establishment of an IT organization that will fully utilize the latest IT technology by Medium-term Strategy integrating the IT systems that differ from division to division to improve efficiency. To do so, we will also build a new financial accounting system as well as centralize and integrate several financial systems that differ from division to division. Additionally, we will work to deploy cutting-edge administrative systems including telematics. SiTadeL Control Tower for vehicle operation throughout Singapore Strengthen synergy between Japan Post Co. and Toll and expand revenue We aim to provide seamless solutions by enhancing the synergy between Toll Holdings which offers BtoB logistics Sustainability services overseas and Japan Post Co. which has a strong customer base in Japan and by rolling out BtoB logistics services, especially contract logistics services. Specifically, we are going to offer integrated contract logistics services through JP TOLL LOGISTICS Co., which was founded on October 1, 2018, with Toll’s know-how. In addition, we are going to conduct sales activities towards Japanese companies together with Japan Desk which has been deployed in Toll. Engage in contract logistics services in Japan by strengthening synergies Key initiative within the Medium-term Strengthen synergy between Toll, which mainly engages in BtoB logistics operations overseas, and Japan Post Co., which has a strong customer base in Japan, and expand BtoB logistics in Japan, Data Compilation Management Plan period particularly contract logistics Overseas Japan Strengthen synergy JP Toll Logistics Japan Post Co. (Main region: Asia-Pacific) (Main region: Japan) Use Toll’s know-how to establish a contract logistics business required for the provision of comprehensive logistics services Future goal Provide integrated solutions through the development of a comprehensive logistics business in Japan and overseas JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 33 Medium-term Strategy Banking Business Segment Japan Post Bank Co. seeks to enhance corporate value by promoting the provision of high-quality customer-oriented financial services, diversification and sophistication of investment management and funds flow to regional communities. Business Overview Under the Banking Act, Japan Post Bank Co. and its subsidiaries engage in the deposits, securities investment, remittances and credit card businesses as well as counter sales of Japanese government bonds, investment trusts and insurance products. Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2019 In the banking business, deposits at Japan Post Bank Co. as of March 31, 2019 totaled ¥180,999,134 million (up ¥1,116,374 million year-on-year). Net interest income dropped mainly due to a decrease in interest on Japanese government bonds. Meanwhile, net other operating income increased primarily owing to a rise in gains on foreign exchanges. In the adverse business environment from factors such as a low yen interest rate, ordinary income amounted to ¥1,845,411 million (down ¥199,517 million year-on-year), and net ordinary income amounted to ¥373,976 million (down ¥125,666 million year-on-year). ● Ordinary income ● Net ordinary income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) 2,500,000 600,000 2,044,929 499,642 2,000,000 1,897,292 1,845,411 442,117 400,000 373,976 1,500,000 1,000,000 200,000 500,000 0 0 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Notes: The graphs show ordinary income and net ordinary income of the banking business segment of Japan Post Group. Strengths Challenges Future policy • High recognition, branding • Diversification of and changes • Provision of high-quality power and creditworthiness in customer needs customer-oriented financial • Sense of security and trust • Declining net interest income services from individual customers affected by persistent ultra-low • Diversification and • L argest number of customers yen interest rates sophistication of investment nationwide among other management Japanese banks • Funds flow to regional communities, and others 34 Future Growth Strategy Provision of high-quality customer-oriented financial services With customers’ asset-building needs clearly on the rise, we have ● Investment trusts (net assets) been nurturing the investment trust sales business as a major (Billions of yen) Vision 2,500 source of revenue. For example, we increased the number of post 2,285.9 offices handling investment trusts to 1,540 in October 2018 and 2,000 have launched a service to open investment trust accounts via mail 1,642.3 order at post offices making investment trust referrals. We have also 1,500 1,310.1 been increasing the number of, and nurturing, financial consultants, 1,000 and as of April 1, 2019, their numbers have grown to 1,700. Moreover, to develop human resources with professional skills among post Enhancing Corporate Value 500 office employees, we have provided more tablet devices as a sales 0 support tool and conducted training by accompanying their sales 2016 2017 2018 activities. (As of March 31) In enhancing our settlement services, we have launched Yucho Biz Direct, an Internet banking service for corporate customers. As ● Investment trusts (sales) future efforts, we will also accelerate the installation of compact (Billions of yen) 1,000 ATMs with a 16-language compatibility in anticipation of an increase 891.0 in inbound tourists. At the same time, we will continue to actively 737.8 750 promote collaboration with regional financial institutions by encouraging the use of the Bank’s ATM network by making it 544.3 Medium-term Strategy 500 available to them without any charge. 250 Diversification and sophistication of investment management In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, under a portfolio 0 2016 2017 2018 management framework subdivided into seven in line with the (Fiscal years ended March 31) specific risk characteristics of each investment product, we continued to adjust our portfolio to market conditions while pursuing (Trillions of yen) 81.9 diversification and sophistication of investment management. 79.0 71.5 Responding to the decline in revenues from yen interest rate assets due to the effects of low interest rates, the Bank has built up risk Sustainability assets, such as overseas credit assets and alternative assets, in line with prudent asset and liability management as well as risk 2.9 management. The Bank is also targeting enhanced diversification in 1.6 revenue sources, including through the development of new 0.6 investment areas and the leveraging of derivatives. 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 To further improve earnings through private equity investment, ■ Strategic investment area ■ Risk assets Japan Post Investment Corporation invests mainly in domestic • Foreign securities • Private equity funds (PE) • Corporate bonds, etc. • Real estate funds companies, enacting investment decisions based on an assessment • Japanese local government bonds • Other of business performance and securing the support of management • Money held in trust (equities) Data Compilation • Loans at companies in which it is investing. The company also provides • Strategic investment area equity funding in concert with other fund managers of the highest caliber. As of March 31, 2019, it had invested ¥13.3 billion in five projects. Funds flow to regional communities, and others In line with our efforts to direct the important funds of our customers to local communities, we have been working with regional financial institutions since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 to actively promote participation in regional vitalization funds. We have also been promoting funds flow to regional economies by investing in local government bonds and providing loans to local governments. Going forward, we will continue to cooperate and collaborate with regional financial institutions and local governments to contribute to the development and growth of regional economies. We will dually promote investment in regional vitalization funds and reinforce our collaboration with regional financial institutions by encouraging the use of our ATM network and by sharing administrative work with regional financial institutions. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 35 Medium-term Strategy Life Insurance Business Segment Basing on “reliability” and “trustworthiness”, Japan Post Insurance Co. endeavors to enhance corporate value by pursuing customer-first business operations, achieving sustainable growth and maintaining sound business operations. Business Overview Licensed and approved under the Insurance Business Act, Japan Post Insurance Co. engages in the underwriting of life insurance and asset management business, including securities investment and loans. Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2019 In the life insurance business, while we acquired 1,711,000 new policies amounting to ¥5,563,886 million for individual insurance, there was a decrease in the number of policies in force and an increase in investment expenses*. As a result, ordinary income amounted to ¥7,916,655 million (down ¥36,295 million year-on-year), and net ordinary income amounted to ¥264,870 million (down ¥44,363 million year-on-year). * In order to secure investment income in a low yen interest rate environment, we are diversifying asset management through such means as increasing investment in hedged foreign bonds. This has caused an increase in hedging costs and other investment expenses. ● Ordinary income ● Net ordinary income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) 10,000,000 400,000 8,659,444 7,952,951 7,916,655 8,000,000 309,233 300,000 279,777 264,870 6,000,000 200,000 4,000,000 100,000 2,000,000 0 0 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Notes: The graphs show ordinary income and net ordinary income of the life insurance business segment of Japan Post Group. Strengths Challenges Future policy • Reliable and trustworthy post • Providing products and ser• Customer-first sales activities and office network vices matched to diverse improvement in solicitation quality • Simple procedures and smaller customer needs • Strengthening of sales activities coverage amounts • Securing stable investment focusing on protection needs and • E xtremely large customer income in the low yen interest cultivation of new customer base base centered on post office rate environment • Improve customer services and customers enhance efficiency in backoffice administration through the use of ICT* • Diversification of asset management and sophistication of risk management * ICT (Information and Communication Technology): A general term for technologies related to information and communication 36 Future Growth Strategy Sales and product strategy  (Strengthening of sales activities focusing on protection needs, improvement in solicitation quality, cultivation of new customer base, development of new products, and establishment of sales foundation) Vision Japan Post Insurance Co. will provide products and services that truly satisfy customers by adequately addressing their intention, based on thoroughgoing customer-first solicitation activities, while recognizing the setting of a roadmap for the reversal and growth of policies in force as one of our biggest challenges and strengthening measures to both acquire more new policies and retaining policies (i.e., reduce the number of lapsed or surrendered policies). We will further focus on the training of post office offsite sales personnel and counter sales personnel and improving the sales skills of sales personnel in accordance with customers’ protection needs in order to enhance and instill protection-oriented sales activities. Enhancing Corporate Value As for solicitation quality, we will further enhance efforts toward improvement, such as further strengthening the confirmation of intent of elderly customers by being thorough in having a family member present at policy signings, in addition to the incorporation of policy continuation indicators in the performance evaluation and sales allowance. In cultivating new customer bases, we will create opportunities to meet more customers through Feel Secure with Kampo activities, life plan consultation meetings, and other initiatives. In addition, we will advance the development of new customer bases by strengthening approaches to uninsured and youngand middle-aged customer segments, including the family members of existing policyholders, utilizing the Family Registration Scheme and “Sukoyakanpo” health support application, as well as by strengthening solicitation in worksite and internal markets (within the Japan Post Group) through whole sale activities. As for the development of new products, we began sales from April 2019 of products with relaxed underwriting criteria and the advanced medical rider. We will utilize these products to lead to more new policies by increasing the Medium-term Strategy volume of sales activities and the closing rate. In addition, we will continue to further study the development of protection-type products including third sector products so that we can respond appropriately to the diverse needs of customers. Our efforts also include establishment of the sales foundation. Starting from April 2019, we have introduced new mobile devices for sales personnel in a Product relaxed with Non-participation advanced medical rider phased manner with the aim of further increasing the efficiency of sales activities. underwriting criteria Administrative services strategy (Improving customer service and enhancing efficiency in back-office administration) As initiatives to improve customer services, we intend to expand the scope of claims that can be handled by the “insurance procedure support system,” introduce an “onscreen declaration/automated assessment system” and also Sustainability introduce an “application form printing system” for printing application forms in which data is prepared in advance. In addition, we will press ahead with services that aim to offer “simple, easy-to-understand claim procedures, anywhere, anytime” for customers by promoting Onscreen declaration/automated Application form printing multi-channel access for various claims through assessment system (outline) system (outline) measures such as introducing claim procedures So farSo far Introduction After After Introduction So farSo far After After Introduction Introduction using Web (My Page) and other digital technology. Onscreen Onscreen declaration declaration Onscreen Onscreen declaration declaration A customer A customer out theout only needs theofdate date to fill to fill only needs application of application Furthermore, we will promote the utilization ofPrint copy Print ofcopy of the declaration the declaration in principle. and signature, and signature, in principle. digital technologies to enhance efficiency in back＋ ＋ needs to needs A customer A customer fill out tomany fill out many Declaration Declaration form forform for office administration. digital pen digital input pen input items on items the OCR on the formOCR (A3).form (A3). Data Compilation Asset management strategy (Diversification of asset management and sophistication of risk management) In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, in addition to the start of in-house management of U.S. corporate bonds, we implemented a new investment strategy for in-house management of Japanese equities that takes into account the growth potential of companies. We also began investment in overseas real estate and private equity funds managed by Japan Post Investment Corporation* (“JP Investment”). Thus, we are steadily making progress with diversifying asset management. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, we will promote further diversification by expanding the target assets in each asset class we have invested in so far and enhancing the asset management methods. * JP Investment is a company managing private equity funds. Established in February 2018 jointly with Japan Post Bank Co. Key ongoing initiatives • Diversification of investment products (expand the target currencies in foreign bond investments, expand alternative investments, etc.) • Expansion of in-house management (U.S. corporate bonds, equities) • Enhancing of asset management methods (derivative transactions, etc.) • Further promotion of ESG investment • Sophistication of ALM and risk management JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 37 Medium-term Strategy Other Business Segment Hospital Business Japan Post Holdings Co. operates three Teishin Hospitals (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo; Nakagyo-ku, Kyoto; and Naka-ku, Hiroshima) in Japan (as of April 1, 2019). Teishin Hospitals are open for not only Group employees and their families, but also for use by any member of the public, operating to contribute to everyone in the community. In operating these hospitals, we actively endeavor to improve the quality of safe and secure medical care from the perspective of patients, collaborate with community medical institutions and enhance emergency medical care. Tokyo Teishin Hospital Hotel Business Japan Post Holdings Co. owns 53 Kanpo no Yado inns (including two that are temporarily closed) and other facilities across Japan. As lodging facilities, we operate Kanpo no Yado inns that are traditional Japanese-style inns featuring hot springs, located primarily near tourist destinations; Rafre Saitama, which is a modern hotel located near Saitama Shintoshin Station; and Kanpo no Sato Shobara located in the great outdoors where guests can enjoy tennis and other sports. In addition, we also operate U-Port Recreation Center in Setagayaku, Tokyo, featuring tennis courts, a heated indoor swimming pool and other sports facilities. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we received 1.29 million overnight guests and 2.05 million day guests. In operating these facilities, we will work to enhance our services to attract more guests. At the same time, we will implement measures to increase revenue, such as reinforcing advertisement and visibility through the increased use of websites and responding to the growing demand from foreign visitors, as well as measures to improve productivity, including strict management of food and other costs and streamlining workflow. Kanpo no Yado inn Atami (Main Building) 38 Medium-term Strategy Fostering a Sense of Unity in the Group (Team JP) Within Japan Post Group, Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. work as one through our post office network to provide services to customers. Team JP Slogan for Group Employees Vision Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Based on the Team JP concept, each employee of Insurance Co. respectively listed their shares on the the Group is working together to promote cooperation stock market in 2015, prompting an even greater need on all fronts, including cooperation between Group to foster a sense of unity in Japan Post Group. companies, cooperation between employees working To achieve this, we formulated and started using on the front line and head office, and cooperation within “Team JP” as a slogan for Group employees in October each region and area. Enhancing Corporate Value 2017. Personnel Exchange and Employee Satisfaction Survey Japan Post Group actively promotes personnel understand and enhance employee satisfaction exchanges that include personnel rotations between throughout Japan Post Group by conducting an Group companies and between the front line, branches employee satisfaction survey common to the entire and head office. Group. In addition, we are undertaking measures to Medium-term Strategy Activities of the Women’s Athletics Team Japan Post Group Women’s Athletics Team was The athletes, who belong to Japan Post Group founded in April 2014 because the road relay races companies, take part in ekiden championships as a (ekiden), in which runners are connected by a sash, are unified team and have achieved incredible results that very much like how our postal services connect people include victory in the 36th All Japan Industrial Teams by mail, and employees feel a sense of unity when Women’s Ekiden (Queen’s Ekiden in Miyagi). supporting the athletes. ● Major results in fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Activity/Competition Result Athlete Record Sustainability Leg 1: Eri Utsunomiya Leg 2: Chinatsu Tarumoto 38th All Japan Industrial Teams Women’s Ekiden Leg 3: Ayuko Suzuki 7th 2:16:53 (Queen’s Ekiden in Miyagi) Leg 4: Nozomi Terauchi Leg 5: Rina Nabeshima Leg 6: Hanami Sekine 18th Asian Games 4th Rina Nabeshima 15:40.37 (women’s 5000 m finals) Hokkaido Marathon 2018 1st Ayuko Suzuki 2:28:32 102nd Japan National Championships 2nd Ayuko Suzuki 31:57.82 (women’s 10000 m finals) Data Compilation 102nd Japan National Championships 1st Rina Nabeshima 15:30.93 (women’s 5000 m finals) Rina Nabeshima running in the18th Asian Games Ayuko Suzuki placed 1st in the Hokkaido Marathon 2018 Team members ©️PHOTO KISHIMOTO ©️PHOTO KISHIMOTO JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 39 Medium-term Strategy New Strategic Areas of Focus (1) Japan Post Group is aiming to further enhance profit by increasing earnings through the expansion of new business in addition to existing business, accelerating revenue in the real estate business and conducting capital alliances and mergers and acquisitions in a wide array of fields. To this end, we are further developing comprehensive logistics business in Japan and overseas through JP TOLL LOGISTICS Co. and enhancing sophistication of asset management through private equity investment via Japan Post Investment Corporation. Besides these endeavors, we are conducting the following initiatives to raise profitability. Going forward, we aim to secure new revenue through new businesses that lead to the growth of the Group as a “Total Lifestyle Support Group.” Investment in Aflac Incorporated – Aiming to Boost the Group’s Profit Under the Japan Post Group Medium-term Management Plan 2020, we will consider capital alliances and M&A in a broad range of fields that lead to the growth of Japan Post Group as a “Total Lifestyle Support Group.” We also aim to contribute to profit by considering investments of several hundred billion yen up to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. Against this backdrop, Japan Post Holdings Co., Aflac Incorporated and Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. (Aflac Japan) concluded a “Strategic Alliance Based on Capital Relationship” on December 19, 2018. Japan Post Holdings Co. and Aflac Japan have established a strong relationship of trust as business partners over the years through the various initiatives regarding cancer insurance undertaken together with Japan Post Co. and Japan Post December 19, 2018 Joint press conference concerning the “Strategic Alliance Based on Insurance Co. This strategic alliance reaffirms the cancer Capital Relationship” insurance initiatives undertaken thus far and, through an investment by Japan Post Holdings Co. in Aflac Japan’s parent company Aflac Incorporated, aims to create a sustained cycle of growth for both companies by which Aflac Japan’s business ● Trust structure to establish capital relationship growth will contribute to Japan Post Holdings Co.’s earnings. Ownership Through this, Japan Post Holdings Co. will acquire through U.S. insurer, etc. a trust approximately 7% of Aflac Incorporated’s outstanding Establishes Trust common shares (excluding treasury shares) to establish the (100%) Ownership capital relationship. Upon voting rights reaching at least 20%* Japan Post Holdings Co. four years after acquisition of the shares, Japan Post Holdings Aflac Incorporated Co. will aim to reflect a portion of Aflac Incorporated earnings in (Approx. 7%) Trust Ownership Ownership its consolidated earnings via application of the equity method of Aflac Holdings LLC Trust beneficiary rights accounting. Aflac Japan Japan Post Holdings Co. and Aflac Japan will reaffirm the (100%) (100%) initiatives regarding cancer insurance that have been implemented among Japan Post Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. and shall make reasonable efforts to further develop them. In addition, Japan Post Holdings Co. will consider new initiatives (Intermediate holding company) for cooperation, including leveraging digital technology, The purpose of this capital relationship is not for Japan Post Holdings cooperation in new product development, domestic and/or Co. to acquire rights to control, manage or intervene in the management of Aflac Incorporated. The purpose is to create a sustained overseas business expansion and joint investment in third party growth cycle for both companies in which Aflac Japan’s business entities, and cooperation regarding asset management. growth contributes to Japan Post Holdings Co.’s earnings. * The Articles of Incorporation of Aflac Incorporated, in principle, stipulate each share is entitled to 10 votes after continuous holding of Aflac Incorporated common shares for 48 months by the same beneficial owners. 40 Initiatives for New Profit-Making Business Real Estate Business Development – Accelerate Growth in Real Estate Earnings Japan Post Real Estate Co. was established on April 2, Under the Japan Post Group Medium-term 2018. Through this, we seek to grow the real estate Management Plan 2020, a target of ¥33 billion has business into a pillar of future Group revenue by been set for operating income in the fiscal year ending accelerating efforts to further increase efficiency in real March 31, 2021. In addition, a total of ¥180 billion has Vision estate development utilizing former sites of post offices been earmarked for investment in real estate and company housing, engaging in joint participation in development between the fiscal year ended March 31, future real estate development with other companies 2019 and the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. and securing profit-making properties. ● Future development projects for the Group’s real estate Enhancing Corporate Value ◆Osaka station-front project (formerly Osaka Central Post Office) ◆Toranomon/Azabudai project (participation in Total floor area: 213,000m2 (planned) regional redevelopment project) (former Japan Main uses: Offices, commercial, etc. Post Tokyo Regional Branch, Azabu Post Office) Construction completion: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2024 (planned) Total floor area: 862,000m2 (planned) (portion scheduled to be obtained by Japan Post) Main uses: Offices, residential, commercial, etc. ◆Hiroshima station south exit project Construction completion: Fiscal year ending (tentative) (Hiroshima-higashi Post Office) March 31, 2023 (planned) Total floor area: 44,800m2 (planned) Main uses: Offices, commercial, etc. ◆Gotanda project (formerly U-Port) Construction completion: Fiscal year Total floor area: 68,700m2 (planned) Medium-term Strategy ending March 31, 2023 (planned) Main uses: Offices, hotel, etc. Construction completion: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2024 (planned) Secure new sources of revenue ● Image of operating income target Japan Post Real Estate will progressively start looking (Billion yen) to secure new sources of revenue upon appropriate 100 ⎧ Join venture participation, ー assessment of market conditions and risks, including 80 Gradually begin with appropriate assessment of market conditions and risks ⎨ acquisition of profit-making ー ⎩ properties, etc. joint venture participation in real estate development 60 and acquisition of profit-making properties. 40 Development business using assets held Sustainability by the Group 20 0 2017 2020 2024 2027 (FY) Comments from Director in Charge of Real Estate Division operates. It gave us a chance to study the optimal usage method for land in consideration of how to divide up real Data Compilation estate for development without impeding mainstay postal operations. No two items of real estate are exactly the same. Yoshifumi Iwasaki It’s necessary to consider what’s required in a region and Executive Vice President what will bring customers the most joy. We maintain (Representative Executive Officer), Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. and sustainability in the business by unearthing the real needs of President, Japan Post Real Estate people. Co., Ltd. Going forward, we aim to contribute to regional Established in April 2018, Japan Post Real Estate Co. has advancement through real estate development that focused on the development of real estate held by Japan maximizes local characteristics more efficiently. We have Post Group over the past year. already started looking into securing new sources of revenue The book value of the Group’s properties is ¥2.7 trillion as well. Our mission is to drive growth in the real estate and the founding of this company provided a great business so that it becomes a future pillar of earnings for opportunity to review the way the real estate business Japan Post Group. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 41 Medium-term Strategy New Strategic Areas of Focus (2) Japan Post Group’s post office network is Japan’s preeminent real network with sites dotted all over the country. We will use this real network as an open platform and collaborate with other companies, rather than rely solely on our own capabilities, to resolve issues and raise corporate value. Create Added Value for Our Post Office Network through Collaboration By providing new services to customers through non-life insurance and cancer insurance in conjunction collaboration with other companies based on our post with other entities and we will continue to provide office network, Japan Post Group will further enhance various services through our post offices so that we the value of its network. Over the years, we have sold can deliver more value to customers. Providing new services from our post office network Japan Post Group is providing new services to customers through use at our post offices and introductions from our post offices. We teamed up with ecbo Inc., which runs “ecbo cloak,” a sharing service for luggage storage, to trial a temporary luggage storage service at post offices for travelers, businesspeople, students taking exams or looking for employment and others to resolve the issue of finding somewhere to store small items. The service is being trialed at 32 post offices in Tokyo, Kanagawa Prefecture and Kyoto. Registration on the ecbo cloak app and reservations are required for use. We are also conducting a trial for the provision of “end of life” services such as nursing care, inheritance and funeral arrangements in Tokyo in collaboration with other businesses offering these services. Expanding delivery service and mail receiving locations Amid an increase in online shopping, we are striving to make it easier for customers to receive their purchases by teaming up with various companies. Products bought at Rakuten Market provided by Rakuten, Inc. can now be picked up at convenience stores or post offices or received via anonymous delivery in which users can keep their personal information concealed through Rakuma. Japan Post Group has also connected systems with Estore Corporation’s “Shop Serve” to enable use of a pickup service at convenience stores and post offices via the e-commerce site used by Shop Serve. 42 Collaboration with Business Partners Joint Initiatives to Maintain Local Sites and Revitalize Society Japan Post Group leverages the strengths of other purposes as loaning space for ATMs, and also work in companies that it teams up with to jointly develop conjunction with local governments on different business, maintain local sites and revitalize society. projects based on agreements. Going forward, we will In addition to the collaboration with East Japan continue with initiatives to maintain local sites and Vision Railway Company outlined below, we lease sections of revitalize society through collaboration with other the post office network to other companies for such companies. Collaboration with East Japan Railway Company Japan Post Co. and East Japan Railway Company (“JR Enhancing Corporate Value East”) concluded an agreement to strengthen initiatives aimed at revitalizing regional areas and society on June 12, 2018. The networks of both companies, which carry out many community-based activities, will be leveraged to promote active exchanges of people, materials and information inside and outside a region in a joint effort to contribute to further revitalization of regions and society. In terms of urban settings, JP Financial Lab was opened on May 10, 2019 as a new type of store specializing in financial product consultation on the third Medium-term Strategy floor of the Ecute Tachikawa facility at Tachikawa Station to promote a functional tie-up between post offices and train stations. In local communities, the companies are considering unified management of post office counters and local train station counters, which will include moving post offices to station buildings. Other measures aimed at regional revitalization include a logistical trial for selling agricultural produce from Miyagi Prefecture at Tokyo Station by making use of Japan Post Co.’s transport network and JR East’s bullet train (November 2018) and jointly holding an Sustainability exhibition of products from Tohoku and Shin-Etsu (Nagano and Niigata) at KITTE Nagoya and Nagoya Station (March 2019). Collaboration through Investment from JAPAN POST CAPITAL Co. JAPAN POST CAPITAL invests in high-growth companies and makes collaborations between these companies and Japan Post Group in order to generate and develop new businesses which correspond to latest social trends and our seeking to be a “Total Data Compilation Lifestyle Support Group.” Leveraging some strengths of Japan Post Group such as the nationwide post office network, brand power and trust in relationships with regional communities, JAPAN POST CAPITAL pursues growth acceleration of the investee companies and increase in profitability of the Group in the medium to long-term. JAPAN POST CAPITAL endeavors to contribute to the development of regional communities through its investment business aimed at ensuring better lives and brighter futures for people all around Japan. * Some of the companies invested in as of July 31, 2019 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 43 Medium-term Strategy Collaboration with Local Financial Institutions Including through Regional Vitalization Funds In line with our efforts to direct the important funds Fund name Participation as of Fund total ①Kyushu Wide Area Reconstruction Assistance of our customers to local communities, we have Investment LP July 2016 Approx. ¥11.7 billion been working with local financial institutions since ②KFG Regional Enterprise Support Investment LP November 2016 ¥2.5 billion the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 to actively ③Hokkaido Growth Companies Support Investment LP November 2016 ¥200 million*1 promote participation in regional revitalization ④Chubu / Hokuriku Region Vitalization Investment LP April 2017 Over ¥5.0 billion*2 funds. We invested in six funds, mainly focused ⑤Shiga Bank Core Business Support Investment LP June 2017 ¥600 million on supporting business succession and ⑥Toho Business Succession Investment LP August 2017 ¥500 million entrepreneurship in the fiscal year ended March ⑦Kyushu Setouchi Potential Value Investment LP October 2017 ¥2.3 billion*1 31, 2019. ⑧MIYAKO Kyoto University Innovation LP November 2017 Approx. ¥2.0 billion*1 ⑨MBC Shisaku 1 LP December 2017 Approx. ¥2.0 billion*2 ⑩Michinoku Regional Vitalization Investment LP March 2018 ¥500 million ⑪Fukui Future Business Support Investment LP March 2018 Approx. ¥500 million*1 ⑫Ehime Regional Vitalization Investment LP March 2018 ¥300 million ⑬Healthcare New Frontier Investment LP August 2018 ¥1.25 billion ⑭Tokyo SME Support 2 LP August 2018 ¥2.0 billion ⑮Succession Investment LP, I October 2018 ¥3.0 billion ⑯TOKYO Relationship No.1 Investment, L.P. December 2018 ¥3.4 billion*1 ⑰Kyoto-University-Venture NVCC No.2 Investment LP March 2019 ¥5.4 billion ⑱Aomori Bank Regional Vitalization LP March 2019 Approx. ¥300 million *1 As of date of establishment *2 Final targeted investment amount *3 Received Minister of State for Regional Revitalization’s Award for a “Characteristic Example of Initiatives by Financial Institutions, etc. Contributing to Regional Revitalization” (March 2019) We are also actively promoting partnerships with regional financial institutions using the Japan Post ATM network. The Juroku Bank, Ltd. (Free ATM charge nationwide up to four times a month for customers who make a April 2018 certain number of transactions) The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. (Free ATM charge during the day on weekdays in Osaka, Shiga, Nara, Hyogo, Aichi October 2018 and Tokyo) March 2019 The Kagoshima Bank, Ltd. (Free ATM charge during the day on weekdays in Okinawa) The Ehime Bank, Ltd. (Free ATM charge nationwide up to 4 times a month during the day on weekdays) April 2019 The Bank of Nagoya, Ltd. (Free ATM charge nationwide up to 4 times a month during the day on weekdays for customers who make a certain number of transactions) In addition, we have been gradually replacing all existing ATMs at Aozora Bank with Japan Post Bank ATMs since August 2018. Going forward, we will continue to promote relationships with regional financial institutions mainly by using our ATM network. Strengthen Collaboration in Asset Building Field with Daiwa Securities Group Japan Post Holdings Co., Japan Post Bank Co., investment management services*1, 2. This will Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and Daiwa Securities support the shift from savings to asset formation in Co. signed a Memorandum of Understanding to Japan and contribute to the realization of more enter a partnership to strengthen collaboration in enriched lives by leveraging each Group’s fields of supporting asset building on May 15, 2019. expertise and management resources. Japan Post Group and Daiwa Securities Group *1 Japan Post Bank needs the approval of regulatory authorities to provide new will look into collaboration in developing new services, such as discretionary investment management services. *2 Discretionary investment management services are a form of investment consulting services which meet the lifestyle and management in which buy and sell decisions are fully or partially made by a portfolio manager for the client’s account based on investment discretionary needs of each customer such as discretionary contracts. 44 Medium-term Strategy New Strategic Areas of Focus (3) IT/Digital Strategy Japan Post Group will leverage fast-advancing technology to respond appropriately to changes in the business environment and promote business. Japan Post’s Open Innovation Initiatives Vision Implementation of POST LOGITECH INNOVATION PROGRAM Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Japan Post ●Rapyuta Robotics Co. Co. has been implementing the POST LOGITECH Rapyuta Robotics undertook an initiative to automate INNOVATION PROGRAM as an open innovation operations at post offices by using a robotic arm to take program with the aim of realizing a more enriched down small parcels from a cart and put them on a society through the provision of postal and logistics supply line for sorting. In addition, the rapyuta.io Enhancing Corporate Value services befitting a new era. platform was used in a process to transport the carts In the second program in the year ended March 31, that had been taken down from a truck to the various 2019, the theme was “transform the entire postal and workstations. Demonstration trials were implemented logistics value chain through technology” with the aim toward the practical viability of a system combining an of shifting to the optimum format for all operations from automated guided vehicle (AGV) and a robotic arm. the acceptance to delivery of mail and packages, as well as for the last one mile of logistics, by way of cutting-edge technology. Rapyuta Robotics Co. and A*Quantum Inc. were selected in October 2018 from 70 start-up companies Medium-term Strategy that applied to the program and worked on co-creation. A Demo Day was held on February 5, 2019 to announce results and Rapyuta Robotics won the top POST LOGITECH INNOVATION AWARD. Rapyuta Robotics performs a demonstration at Demo Day. ●A*Quantum Inc. Amid a decline in the number of truck drivers, we have been aiming to optimize our transport network primarily in terms of vehicle fleet, cost and load efficiency by Sustainability leveraging the quantum computer software development technology held by A*Quantum. We are conducting a demonstration test in the eastern area of Saitama Prefecture where there are around 30 post offices and have started to see the effects, notably being able to reduce the number of vehicles operating POST LOGITECH INNOVATION PROGRAM Demo Day (fiscal year ended March 31, 2019) transport services in the evening and at night. Data Compilation Co-creation with other start-up companies Japan Post actively advances co-creation with other start-up companies. Examples of co-creation ●Yper Inc.: Reduction in redeliveries via use of delivery bags ●OPTIMIND Inc.: Optimization of delivery routes using artificial intelligence ●Autonomous Control Systems Laboratory Ltd.: Transport of parcels, etc., between post offices using drones Screen on a tablet showing optimized delivery route (OPTIMIND Inc.) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 45 Medium-term Strategy Start of Yucho Pay Japan Post Bank teamed up with GMO Payment introduce the service. Gateway, Inc. on May 8, 2019 and started handling In addition, we have connected with financial “Yucho Pay,” a new smartphone settlement service that institutions that have introduced the same settlement aims to provide “new convenience” to customers by system provided by GMO Payment Gateway through enhancing lifestyles through new technology. “Ginko Pay,” which is interoperable (“multi-bank”), so Customers with a Japan Post Bank account can that customers can use this settlement service withdraw money from a pre-registered account by irrespective of the bank they use and the region they operating a dedicated smartphone app when settling a live in. bill at a merchant, for instance, that has agreed to ● “Yucho Pay” system SHOP “Partners” (member stores) Individual user Prepare tablet terminal* Prepare smartphone Payment on next business day Withdraw immediately from account * Dedicated terminal not required Banks using Ginko Pay platform Japan Post Bank Co. Other participating banks Promotion of smartphone settlement services Bank In addition to payment settlement at merchants, smartphone, which is a first for Japan. Users can users will be able to pay charges simply by reading the withdraw a designated amount of cash from ticket QR code or barcode printed on the bank’s payment vending machines at stations along Tokyu lines (85 handling slip or convenience store’s payment slip with stations on six lines, excluding Kodomonokuni Line and the “Yucho Pay” app. This eliminates the need to head Setagaya Line) just by hovering a QR code displayed on to a convenience store or ATM to withdraw money, their smartphone app, either Japan Post Bank Co.’s enabling payment regardless of time and place. “Yucho Pay” or The Bank of Yokohama, Ltd.’s “Hama The service also allows the withdrawal of bank Pay.” savings at train stations simply through the use of a ● Example of using a cash out service ● Sample payment handling slip ▲払込取扱票イメージ 46 Improvement of Customer Service and Enhancement of Efficiency in BackOffice Administration through the Use of ICT at Japan Post Insurance Co. The social environment continues to change each year, communications technology (ICT). In order to respond characterized by diversifying customer needs on the to such a social environment, Japan Post Insurance back of changing lifestyles, a decline in the working Co. is striving to improve customer service and enhance Vision population and evolution of information and efficiency in back-office administration. Improvement of customer service In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we implemented system” for certain claims that prints the necessary initiatives to improve customer service in terms of the information for various claim documents in advance scheme and the IT system, including introduction of the and automatically determines the documents needed Enhancing Corporate Value Family Registration Scheme in readiness for aging of at the time of a claim so as to offer “simple, easy-topolicyholders and in the event of disaster. In addition, understand claim procedures.” we introduced an “insurance procedure support Cases where the Family Registration Scheme comes in handy The policyholder wishes to The registered family member can check check the policy details but the policy details. cannot make an inquiry by Note: The registered family member cannot make himself/herself claims for payment of insurance or other benefits, make policy changes, etc. Notices on various procedures sent from Japan Post Insurance are not delivered The post office or Japan Post Insurance to the policyholder or it becomes If a member of the will contact the registered family member. difficult to contact the policyholder family is Note: If the mail addressed to the policyholder is Medium-term Strategy registered… undelivered because he/she has moved, the mail because of a disaster, etc. cannot be sent to the registered family member. Enhancement of efficiency in back-office administration Since March 2017, we have introduced decision support policy conditions, and medicine, and to gain benefits for insurance claim payment examination work using such as faster payment processing. Going forward, we artificial intelligence (AI). By inputting past payment will examine the possibility of using AI in other fields as cases in the AI system, we are able to obtain judgment well, which includes enhancing customer contact by materials based on the results obtained by machine expanding scope of usage to inquiries concerning learning. Using AI enables us to make quick assessments administrative procedures from post offices and at a level on par with employees with sophisticated enhancing the efficiency of back-office administration knowledge and experience regarding our products, through the utilization of digital technology. Sustainability Comments from the Director in Charge of IT Systems Division actively utilizing AI, the Internet of Things (IoT), financial technology and other new technologies, and working to strengthen customer contact, expand new products and services, and implement working style reforms as well as systematically develop human resources who can take on Data Compilation key roles in this era of digitization. Toshihide Komatsu Executive Vice President In addition, we are establishing a framework and posture (Representative Executive Officer) to ensure business continuity and safeguard customer assets Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. in response to the threat of increasingly sophisticated and The Japan Post Group Medium-term Management Plan elaborate cyber attacks as the use of the Internet spreads. 2020 sets out three IT strategies: (1) Promote IT to support We are also striving to reduce costs through stable operation new business development for future growth; (2) Promote of IT foundations and by optimizing the Group as a whole. work style reform and productivity improvement; and (3) This includes maintaining our communications network Reinforce our management base in order to support connecting around 24,000 post offices as well as a PC sustainable growth. These strategies aim to promote environment with guaranteed security, and expanding the business transformation using IT in response to changes in cloud environment in-house to increase Group-wide resource the business environment, including customer needs. efficiency. Based on recent advancements in digitization, we are JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 47 Sustainability Toward the Realization of a Sustainable Society Japan Post Group’s Sustainability Management The trend of prioritizing the correlation between economic activities and sustainability is growing in prominence around the world and continues to gather momentum, evidenced in particular by adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015, adoption of the Paris Agreement at the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) and establishment of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in December 2015. Based on this trend in the global community, Japan Post Group will further promote management from the social perspective that we have taken since our foundation in 1871. Through our nationwide network of 24,000 post offices, we will steadily fulfill our role in social infrastructure through the stable provision of postal, banking and insurance services that support the foundations of our lives to all regions without exception. We will also face up to the changing challenges and needs of the times and create and share value through products and services that resolve these issues. This is the philosophy of Japan Post Group’s sustainability management. ● Realization of the SDGs 48 Realization of the SDGs The SDGs are a collection of global goals adopted at harmony between our management strategy and our the United Nations in September 2015 to bring an end SDG-related activities, we implement the “provision of to poverty and give the world a sustainable future. The universal services” and “fair business practices” as part Vision 17 goals are defined in a list of 169 targets aimed at of our Medium-term Management Plan 2020 resolving global challenges by 2030. announced in May 2018. We also incorporate the SDGs Japan Post Group has selected CSR Priority Issues into the framework of our management strategy and (Materiality) in the three fields of local communities, the through our Group-wide business activities aim to earth and people and the key themes of the Japan Post contribute to the achievement of the SDGs and become Group CSR Basic Policy, and is undertaking activities a company trusted by society. Enhancing Corporate Value that are linked to each of the SDGs. In order to ensure Fiscal year ending March Priority Issue Future vision Measures 31, 2021 Targets Provide products and services necessary for every stage of life based on a post Provision of universal ①Provision of Universal office network that is Maintenance of post office network and services through a seamless Services essential to the provision of universal services post office network infrastructure of society and prioritizes the livelihood of Medium-term Strategy customers • E xpansion of Watch Over Service (Together with Local • Promotion of Radio Exercise Communities) • Promotion of Kampo Platinum Life Create a secure and ②Promoting Healthy Service prosperous society where Living • Promotion of letter-writing Continued promotion of everyone can live a safe and ③Nurturing the Next • Financial education (on-site lessons at Watch Over Service and healthy life, and a Generations elementary and other schools, and other services sustainable society that will ④Development with Local Japan Post Bank Piggy Bank Design lead us into the future Communities Contest for Children) • Partnerships with local municipal organizations • Regeneration of regional communities (Together with the Earth) through the development of green areas Sustainability Actively contribute to society ⑤Reducing Greenhouse • Support for environmental conservation Reduction of CO2 emissions through corporate activities Gas Emissions activities through expanded use of nonby 47,000 tons (4.4%) ⑥Effective Use of that take into consideration passbook general accounts compared with the fiscal climate change and global Resources and • Implementation of donations based on year ended March 31, 2017 Reduction of Waste warming online provision of contract guidelines and policy conditions • Training in accordance with career paths (training by level, frontline leader training, etc.) • T arget percentage of • Group joint training (for transferees, women in management newly appointed executives, etc.) • Japan Post Co.: 10% or • P romotion of active participation of more Data Compilation female employees (promotion to higher • Japan Post Bank Co.: 14% (Together with People) Create an environment positions including management, etc.) or more ⑦Development of Human where each and every • Promotion of employment of people with • Japan Post Insurance Co.: Resources employee is motivated to disabilities 14% or more actively demonstrate their ⑧Workstyle Reform • Acceleration of understanding of gender • Japan Post Holdings Co.: full capabilities diversity (LGBT) 11% or more • Promotion of child and family care leave • Employment rate of • Workstyle reform (reduction of working persons with disabilities: hours, etc.) achieve and maintain • P romotion of employee physical and 2.5% of the Group target mental health maintenance and improvement Require transparent • Zero internal criminal management, comply with • T horough Group-wide compliance activity ⑨Fair Business Practices regulations, and contribute • Elimination of relationships with • C ontinued elimination of to the development of antisocial forces relationships with society and the local antisocial forces community JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 49 Sustainability Initiatives through Business Activities Japan Post Group CSR Basic Policy Japan Post Group will achieve sustainable growth as a company and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society and future with the aim of being a “Total Lifestyle Support Group” that is of service to customers and local communities. We will contribute to realizing a safe, secure and prosperous society by maintaining fair, transparent and sound management, while also faithfully fulfilling our role as a key infrastructure of local communities through our post office network and employees. We will work as a group to address each of the following issues through all of our business activities, beginning with universal services in our postal, banking and insurance businesses. 1 Together with Local Communities 2 Together with the Earth 3 Together with People We shall strive for sustainable We shall strive to undertake We shall respect the human rights coexistence with local business operations adapted to of all people involved in the communities by understanding the impact of climate change business activities of the Group their issues and demands and and actively promote business and aim to ensure a safe and communicating with stakeholders and environmental conservation friendly working environment and to provide the best services. activities with consideration build a fulfilling workplace where toward reducing our burden on individual employees can exercise the environment. independence and creativity. ● Promotional Approach to CSR Japan Post Holdings Co. Management Meeting Confirms and coordinates CSR activities CSR Committee at all Group companies Group CSR Liaison Conference Deliberates on policies and goals for the entire Group Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Post offices, etc. Branches, etc. Branches, etc. ● Response to ESG challenges Japan Post Group, recognizing the importance of management that takes into account environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues from a long-term perspective in order to ensure sustainable growth and create corporate value over the medium and long term, established the ESG Office within the Corporate Planning Department at Japan Post Holdings Co. in April 2019. 50 Together with Local Communities We shall strive for sustainable coexistence with local communities by understanding their issues and demands and communicating with stakeholders to provide the best Vision services. Participating in Regional Vitalization Funds Japan Post Bank Co. has actively encouraged Enhancing Corporate Value participation in regional vitalization funds since fiscal ➡ Impact on society 2016 to cycle important customer capital throughout all Vitalization of local economy and alliances with of Japan by way of alliances with local financial local financial institutions institutions. (For details, please refer to page 44.) Supporting Healthy and Fulfilling Lifestyles Popularization and promotion of Radio Exercise ● Festival of 10 Million People’s Radio Exercise and To benefit the health of people throughout Japan, Minna no Taiso (“Exercise for Everyone”) Japan Post Insurance Co. is working to popularize and As one of our major Radio Exercise events, Japan Post Medium-term Strategy promote Radio Exercise together with NHK (Japan Insurance Co. holds the Festival of 10 Million People’s Broadcasting Corporation) and the NPO Japan RadioRadio Exercise and Minna no Taiso every year at one taiso Federation. venue aiming to get 10 million people around the country to participate together in Radio Exercise through TV and radio channels. Providing the health support app “Sukoyakanpo” ● Radio Exercise and Minna no Taiso Tour The role expected of the life insurance business is Japan Post Insurance Co. holds the Radio Exercise shifting from the provision of conventional services, that and Minna no Taiso Summer Tour in 43 venues over 43 is, protection against illness and injury, to the provision days across Japan from July 20th to August 31st every of services for prevention of illness and injury and for Sustainability year (including the Festival of 10 Million People’s Radio maintaining and promoting health. To fulfill such a role, Exercise and Minna no Taiso). Japan Post Insurance Co. intends to vigorously support Additionally, we hold the Radio Exercise and Minna health and affluent lifestyles. no Taiso Special Tour primarily on Sundays and holidays As a measure for such support, we have launched at 10 venues throughout Japan from April to the end of the “Sukoyakanpo” health support free app that helps October every year (excluding the period for the Radio people pursue health at ease. Exercise and Minna no Taiso Summer Tour). ➡ Impact on society Data Compilation Promotion of health among customers, etc. 57th Festival of 10 Million People’s Radio Exercise and Minna no Taiso (Held in Kurashiki City, Okayama Prefecture, on August 5, 2018) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 51 Sustainability Initiatives through Business Activities Toward a Society in Which the Elderly Can Live with Peace of Mind The Post Office Watch Over Service Japan Post Co. values the connection between local ➡ Impact on society communities and post offices, and with the aim of Creation of a society in which the elderly can live growing together, provides the Watch Over Service at with peace of mind 20,000 post offices nationwide. Kampo Platinum Life Service Japan Post Insurance Co. is conducting a companywide initiative called “Kampo Platinum Life Service” to win the favor of the growing number of elderly customers by offering age-friendly services based on a sense of security and trust that has been enabled by improving contacts with all customers from the perspective of our elderly customers. ➡ Impact on society Provision of services that the elderly can use with Publication of an information Encouraging employees to acquire qualifications peace of mind magazine for elderly customers E.g.: Carefitter training Initiatives to Increase Logistics Efficiency Using Next-generation Mobility In light of a labor shortage, Japan Post Co. is undertaking initiatives that use new technology such as drones, delivery robots and automated driving to provide stable and sustainable postal and logistics ➡ Impact on society services. Vitalization of the local economy, contribution to There are still many challenges to overcome, innovation and alleviation of labor shortage including technical issues and the development of a legal system, but we plan to continue with these initiatives. November 2018 Started transports between post offices using small unmanned drones Japan Post Co. started parcel transports using a small unmanned drone without an operator watching the airborne device or an assistant who monitors its movements for the first time in Japan from a post office in the city of Minamisoma in Fukushima Prefecture to the town of Namie (about 9km). Drone January 2019 Demonstration test to realize application of delivery robots to the logistics field A demonstration test using a delivery robot was conducted in the city of Minamisoma and the town of Namie to test the possibility of delivery robots for the last one mile of logistics. An automobile school and public housing for disaster victims were used for the test as they closely resemble the actual road environment and delivery environment. March 2019 Demonstration test for self-driving transport cars Japan Post Co. has conducted a test for a selfdriving transport car assuming the transport of mail between the Tokyo International Post Office Experiment using a self-driving car and Shin Tokyo Post Office. A further test was conducted that was unmanned on the premises of the Shin Tokyo Post Office. 52 Together with the Earth We shall strive to undertake business operations adapted to the impact of climate change and actively promote business and environmental conservation activities with consideration toward reducing our burden on the environment. Vision Initiatives to Address Climate Change Declaration of support for TCFD reduce greenhouse gas emissions as one of our Japan Post Holdings Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and initiatives targeted at achieving the United Nations Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Insurance Co. have declared their support Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and also works to the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climateto contribute to the creation of a sustainable society related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) which were through such means as investment in green bonds. established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). In addition to the above, Japan Post Group will Japan Post Group has declared in the Japan Post strive for increased information disclosure by deepening Group CSR Basic Policy that we will “strive to undertake analysis on the impact of climate change on the business operations adapted to the impact of climate business of each Japan Post Group company based change and actively promote business and on the TCFD recommendations. environmental conservation activities with consideration toward reducing our burden on the environment.” In Medium-term Strategy addition, under the Japan Post Group Medium-term Management Plan 2020, the Group upholds a policy to Japan Post Group Environmental Statistics Japan Post Group is working to reduce greenhouse ● Greenhouse gas emission reductions by Japan Post Group gases emitted by its businesses* to realize a sustainable Fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (Base Year) society taking climate change and global warming into consideration. Intermediate Benchmark In view of domestic and international trends, Japan Fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 Reduction of 47,000 t-CO2 (4.4% reduction) Post Group will continuously promote initiatives to Sustainability reduce greenhouse gas emissions and has set its greenhouse gas reduction goal for the fiscal year Group Goal ending March 31, 2031 as well as intermediate Fiscal year ending March 31, 2031 Reduction of 169,000 t-CO2 (16% reduction)* benchmarks up to the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 to achieve this goal. * This corresponds to the greenhouse gas reduction goals in Japan’s “Plan for Global Warming Countermeasures” (26% reduction compared with the fiscal year ended * Greenhouse gasses emitted by Japan Post Group’s businesses refer to CO2. March 31, 2014) based on the Paris Agreement. Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load in Logistics Data Compilation Japan Post Co. is working to reduce environmental load in logistics through such efforts as introducing electric vehicles (EVs) and reducing redelivery. Expanded introduction of EVs ● EV-related initiatives Japan Post Co. has made the decision to replace 1,200 FY2008 Japan Post Co. proceeded with preparations toward full-scale gasoline-powered light vehicles used to deliver parcels introduction of EVs, conducting demonstration tests of electric vehicles to verify benefits and issues in terms of the environment and business and mail over short distances mainly in the Tokyo from various perspectives and asking automakers for cooperation in development. Metropolitan area with EVs by March 31, 2021. FY2013 Japan Post Co. introduced EVs on a trial basis and conducted tests on the effect on the environment as well as practicality and efficiency. A total of 69 EVs (vehicles for collection and delivery) have been deployed as of March 31, 2019. FY2017 Japan Post Co. started examining collaboration with Honda Motor Co. on demonstration testing for environmentally responsible electric motorcycles for postal deliveries. FY2019 Plan to replace approximately 400 vehicles from November FY2020 Plan to replace approximately 800 vehicles from April JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 53 Sustainability Initiatives through Business Activities Initiatives to reduce redeliveries Under the “send and receive with greater ease” concept, Japan Post Co. is making efforts to improve Yu-Pack service and reduce CO2 emissions generated through redeliveries while enhancing customer convenience. In March 2019, we expanded our email notification service and designated location delivery service for customers using a Yubin ID. We are also working to enhance our channels for receiving mail such as HAKO POST receiving lockers. ➡ Impact on society Alleviation of climate change and global warming ● Improvement of Yu-Pack service Expansion of delivery Japan Post Co. expanded its mail notification service to customers who use a Yubin ID. Information on the notice emails destination provided to Japan Post Co. by the shipper is matched with the information on record for a customer who has attained a Yubin ID, and an email is sent to the recipient with notification of scheduled delivery or stating that they were not at home when the package was delivered. Expansion of services Customers who have received mail with notification of scheduled delivery of a Yu-Pack sent by the shipper or where delivery location stating that they were not at home when the Yu-Pack was delivered can have it sent to a designated location. can be designated [Possible pickup locations] • In front of door • Delivery box • Mailbox • Meter box • Storeroom • Carport Other initiatives Japan Post Co. has conducted a demonstration test for the OKIPPA delivery bag for 1,000 households in the Suginami Ward of Tokyo in conjunction with Yper Inc. Redeliveries were reduced by approximately 61% during the test period of around a month. Effective Use of Resources and Reduction of Waste Reducing paper with paperless bank accounts Contributions to environmental preservation As of March 6, 2016, Japan Post Bank Co. has been through online provision of the contract guidelines offering its “Japan Post Bank Direct+ (Plus)” bank and policy conditions accounts that do not require a bankbook. On October 2, 2014, Japan Post Insurance Co. began The paperless Japan Post Bank Direct+ (Plus) offering the contract guidelines and policy conditions account is a service that does not issue a bankbook on the Company’s website. but rather utilizes a cash card for cash deposits and Previously, we had provided our contract guidelines withdrawals, and a website for checking account and policy conditions to all customers in a paper details. booklet format. By selecting “web viewing,” Since paper usage is being reduced by the policyholders now have the option of confirming their increasingly widespread adoption of this service, we contract guidelines and policy conditions in PDF format decided to donate an amount equivalent to the number on our website instead of receiving a paper brochure. of accounts opened in the fiscal year ended March 31, The provision of the contract guidelines and policy 2018, under the title “Yucho Eco-Communication,” to conditions on the website eliminates the need for 13 organizations (non-profit organizations) across conventional brochures, thereby enabling a reduction Japan that are engaged with local residents in activities in the amount of paper used. that have both an environmental conservation and a In July 2018, we donated a total of ¥33.0 million to social contribution aspect. The funds were used for 33 environmental groups working on forestation based activities conducted between January and December on the number of customers who opted for online 2018. contract guidelines and policy conditions in the 12 months from October 2016 to September 2017. 54 Eliminating paper Japan Post Group has been endeavoring to eliminate the use of paper since before it relocated its head office building. The transfer provided an excellent opportunity to further strengthen this initiative by installing monitors in meeting spaces and conference rooms, which is Vision helping to realize paperless meetings, even management meetings. Improving the office not only eliminates paper but also prompts employees to rethink Paper materials were reduced their working style. by installing permanent monitors in the conference room ➡ Impact on society Enhancing Corporate Value Reduction in paper consumption and work style reform A meeting space used to further communication Head Office Building Acquires Gold-level LEED-CI Certification (2009 Version) Japan Post Holdings Co. acquired Gold-level LEED-CI The honor recognized the construction of an office certification, an international standard in grading space with world-class environmental performance, systems for the environmental performance of buildings the largest of its kind in Japan among office tenants when the head office was shifted to the Otemachi Place that have acquired the LEED certification. Medium-term Strategy West Tower. ESG Investment Policy Japan Post Bank Co. formulates and discloses an ESG Japan Post Insurance Co. manages assets in accordance investment policy as an institutional investor responsible with the ESG Investment Policy as an institutional investor for advancing globally diverse investment. managing assets over the long term. For details of Japan Post Bank Co.’s ESG investment For details of Japan Post Insurance Co.’s ESG policy, please refer to the Company’s website. investment policy, please refer to the Company’s website. https://www.jp-bank.japanpost.jp/en/aboutus/company/en_abt_cmp_esg.html https://www.jp-life.japanpost.jp/english/aboutus/csr/en_abt_csr_esg.html Sustainability ESG Investment Activities factors in making investment decisions. We select themes that can From the perspective of fulfilling its social responsibilities widely contribute to the achievement of SDGs and the resolution of to all stakeholders, Japan Post Insurance Co. is issues related to them, and invest in projects beneficial to the resolution of ESG issues. promoting initiatives to solve ESG issues facing society, • Investment in solar power generation projects and actively taking on challenges toward the sustainable • Investment in a Thematic Bond promoting gender equality growth of corporate value and social development. • Investment in a Climate Awareness Bond Initiatives in the area of externally managed assets In asset management, we will consider various In our external manager selection, appointment and monitoring factors of ESG in making investment decisions, in order processes, we confirm their ESG initiatives. Data Compilation ■ Stewardship activities to realize a sustainable society, improve investment Through constructive engagement, we are striving to build strong results and reduce risks in the long-term. relationships with investee companies and to appropriately monitor their status. ■ Integration of ESG factors into the investment process For details of Japan Post Insurance Co.’s stewardship activities, Initiatives in the area of internal domestic equity investments please refer to the Company’s website. We utilize ESG integration as a method to consider ESG factors in https://www.jp-life.japanpost.jp/aboutus/company/assets/pdf/stewardship_taio.pdf (in Japanese) making investment decisions in addition to financial information, and ■ United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) signatory manage the following two domestic equity funds. In Japan Post Group, Japan Post Insurance Co. signed the UN PRI in • Fund investing in high-dividend companies whose corporate value October 2017 to promote ESG investment and to contribute to the is expected to increase over the mediumto long-term, based on realization of a sustainable society. In accordance with the PRI, we are comprehensive evaluation of companies’ initiatives on ESG issues. fulfilling our social responsibility as an institutional investor and will • Fund investing in companies that view ESG issues as a growth report our initiatives in our RI Transparency Report, which will be made opportunity, based on evaluation of “contribution to performance” available on the UN PRI website. and “growth potential” of companies’ technological capabilities and business base which contribute to the achievement of SDGs and resolution of issues related to them. Initiatives in the area of internal bond investments etc. We utilize ESG-themed investment as a method to consider ESG JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 55 Sustainability Initiatives through Business Activities Together with People We shall respect the human rights of all people involved in the business activities of the Group and aim to ensure a safe and friendly working environment and build a fulfilling workplace where individual employees can exercise independence and creativity. Formulation of Japan Post Group Human Rights Policy Japan Post Group recognizes that the respect for Japan Post Group is dedicated to promoting human human rights of all people involved in our business rights initiatives across the Group. activities is indispensable to the achievement of a sustainable society. ➡ Impact on society Accordingly, in April 2019 the Group established the Respect for human rights and alleviation of Japan Post Group Human Rights Policy in accordance discrimination with international principles such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Initiatives Related to Preventing Discrimination and Respecting Human Rights The Japan Post Group Charter of Corporate Conduct set up counters inside and outside the company for states that we shall aim for sustainable coexistence by consultation on harassment and take consultations placing importance on maintaining dialogues with anonymously to protect the privacy of the consulter. diverse stakeholders, as well as respect human rights and provide safe and pleasant workplaces. As part of efforts to put these ideals into practice, ➡ Impact on society we strive to bring enlightenment on human rights, give Respect of human rights and alleviation of training to managers that draw on cases of harassment discrimination and distribute a booklet on such matters. We have also Promoting Diversity Management Promotion of the active participation of women Advocacy of the “Declaration on Action” by a JAPAN POST Group is implementing various initiatives group of male leaders who will create “A Society to ensure that female employees can fully demonstrate in which Women Shine” their individuality and capabilities and to establish a Based on an agreement with the tenets of the pleasant workplace environment that continues to be “Declaration on Action” by a group of male leaders who motivating. will create “A Society in which Women Shine” advocated We have set the following targets for the percentage by the Gender Equality Bureau Cabinet Office, the of women in management in our Group companies and presidents of each Japan Post Group company are are pushing ahead with initiatives that include training proactively promoting the active roles of women who to raise awareness among women, support of women’s shine. These efforts are in line with the three initiatives career development and work style reform to reduce set forth under the Declaration, namely “taking actions long work hours. and sending messages ourselves,” “disrupting the status quo” and “developing networking.” ● Target percentage of women in management (up to April 1, 2021) Japan Post Japan Post Japan Post Japan Post Co. Bank Co. Insurance Co. Holdings Co. 10% or more 14% or more 14% or more 11% or more 56 Employment of persons with disabilities Empowerment of the elderly Cognizant of the fact that providing suitable employment Japan Post Group will raise the retirement age to 65 opportunities to persons with disabilities is our social starting with employees who turn 60 in the year ending responsibility as a corporation, we are working March 2021 as the working population decreases due proactively to promote such employment. As of April to Japan’s aging population and dwindling birthrate 2019, the employment rate of persons with disabilities and to coincide with the arrival of a society in which the Vision was 2.29%, exceeding the legally mandated mark of elderly are increasingly taking on active roles. The 2.2%. These persons are engaged in a variety of roles Group plans to create an environment in which elderly in different places of work. employees can play an active part. ➡ Impact on society Creation of organizational innovation through the Enhancing Corporate Value use of diverse ideas and the generation of employment opportunities for persons with disabilities Response to the aging society and enhancement of employee motivation Creating a Motivating Workplace Proper management of work hours Support measures for child care, nursing care and Medium-term Strategy Besides engaging in proper management of work illness hours in their places of business, Group companies are Regarding child/nursing care, Japan Post Group has conducting various initiatives to reduce overtime work established a support system exceeding the regulations through streamlining of business and workplace culture set out by law and is implementing various support reform. measures so that both male and female employees can continue working during times they are needed at Initiatives in health management home, including from pregnancy to childbirth, for child We believe that a healthy body and mind are vital for care and for nursing family members. each individual employee to take full advantage of his or We are also taking steps to ensure a good work-life her skills and work energetically. Therefore, the Group balance that include enhancing sick leave and companies are working together with employees to introducing other leave programs so that employees Sustainability implement health maintenance and promotion can devote themselves to getting better with peace of measures. These measures include “reducing long mind in the event of illness, as well as establishing a work hours,” “health guidance toward prevention of leave system for infertility treatment. lifestyle diseases” and “mental healthcare” in order to realize the “health and happiness of employees and ➡ Impact on society their families” and to “contribute to society through Enhancement of motivation and quality of life further productivity improvements.” Each Group company also conducts stress checks not only in offices with 50 or more employees, where Data Compilation such checks are mandatory, but also for approximately 100,000 employees at 19,000 nationwide offices with less than 50 employees. These stress checks are used for early detection of mental health problems and improvement of work environments. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 57 Sustainability Initiatives through Business Activities Development of Human Resources Developing human resources who fulfill their Developing human resources who contribute to expected roles improving the Group’s corporate value Each Group company carries out employee We actively promote personnel exchanges within the development to nurture human resources to fulfill their Group for integrated operation of the Group’s expected roles according to their respective career businesses and for optimal assignment of personnel for paths. This includes on-the-job training (OJT), in which the Group as a whole. instruction and education are given through work in Also, with the aim of making the Group more actual workplaces, and off-the job training (Off-JT), in competitive, we are conducting training at the Postal which employees acquire the necessary knowledge College to contribute to fostering a sense of Group and skills by participating in training and seminars away unity and deploying synergies. In addition to training for from their workplaces (position-based training including newly appointed executives, we provide joint group stratified training when employees are promoted, as training for executives and employees in Group well as training for frontline leaders and training to companies that includes all employees hired for careerenhance specific skills such as sales capabilities). track positions and those transferred from the front line Collectively, these companies assist with employee to career-track positions at the head office. “self-development,” including support of qualification acquisition. Furthermore, Group companies implement training to enhance management skills, particularly for head office staff, as part of efforts to cultivate human resources who can fulfill their expected roles. Comments from an Executive in Charge of Personnel strong support for child care, nursing care and illness; promoting diversity management; and improving the employment conditions for fixed-term employees. In particular, we are promoting health management in a joint effort between employees and the company to maintain and improve health. Also, with the aim of realizing a Kazuhide Kinugawa workplace that encourages a positive work-life balance, we Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. are expanding and enhancing our support systems for child Senior Managing Executive Officer care, nursing care and illness. By doing so, we hope to Over the years, Japan Post Group has provided products prevent the outflow of exceptional human resources with and services that accommodate diverse lifestyles by way of extensive experience. the integrated offering of its three core businesses of postal Further, we are improving conditions for fixed-term services, banking and insurance through post offices. I employees as we view them as critically important resources believe it is important for each employee of the Group to to the Group’s business management. This comes amid work together to generate synergies that will drive further demands for improved conditions for non-regular workers, growth. which has become an issue pervading society on the whole. Based on this philosophy, Japan Post Group is striving Our policy is to contribute to the growth and development of to promote a unified organization. Efforts include actively the Group by implementing various measures to improve promoting personnel exchanges within the Group for conditions from the perspective of equal pay for equal work. integrated operation of the Group’s business and for optimal Our measures have been executed ahead of the April 2020 assignment of personnel for the Group as a whole. Also, we enforcement of the Act on the Arrangement of Related Acts are fostering a sense of Group unity through such means as to Promote Work Style Reform, otherwise known as the conducting joint training for executives and employees in Work Style Reform Act (“Part-Time/Fixed-Term Employment Group companies. Act”). It is essential to create an environment in which each We will continue striving to drive growth and employee can work in good health and with vitality since development in Japan Post Group through initiatives to employees are the foundation underpinning business create a motivating workplace, which include establishing activities for postal operations highly dependent on human an environment in which all employees can maximize their power. We are currently undertaking measures relating to potential and work with positivity, and supporting the work style reform in order to fully draw out the capabilities of development of human resources. employees. These include reducing overtime; providing 58 Sustainability Social Contributions through Sports Support for the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 A desire to support From Tokyo to Japan’s Olympic and Paralympic Games As the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 official postal services partner, we are contributing to the excitement of Tokyo 2020 across Japan by utilizing our nationwide network of approximately 24,000 post Vision offices that are deeply rooted in local communities and our over 400,000 employees. Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Co. is an official partner (postal services) of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. Supporting the Japan National Supporting the Japan National 3x3 Rugby Team Basketball Team  Japan Post Holdings Co. contributes to the spread and Medium-term Strategy We are providing support for the Japan National Rugby permeation of 3x3 basketball through its support of the Team as an official supporter of the team. In doing so, activities of the Japan National 3x3 Basketball Team we are contributing to the spread and penetration of and games held by the Japan Basketball Association rugby throughout Japan. (JBA) as a partner in JBA’s postal, home delivery and freight transport category. Sustainability ©JBA Supporting the Japan Wheelchair ©JRFU,2018 Tennis Association and Concluding Supporting the Japan GoalBall an Affiliation Contract with Player Association  Momoko Otani We are contributing to the spread and advance of Driven by a desire to contribute to the advance and sports for persons with disabilities by proactively spread of wheelchair tennis, Japan Post Insurance Co. supporting activities carried out by the Japan GoalBall is supporting wheelchair tennis experiential events, Data Compilation Association (JGBA). This includes dispatching employee training camps for young athletes and tournaments in volunteers to participate in various types of competitions Japan. Additionally, in the fiscal year ending March 31, and experiential events run by JGBA. 2020, we concluded an affiliation contract with wheelchair tennis player Momoko Otani. GOAL BALL ASSOCIATION GOAL BALL ASSOCIATION ©RyoICHIKAWA/JGBA Player Momoko Otani is affiliated with Japan Post Insurance Co. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 59 Sustainability Japan Post Group Corporate Governance Basic Views Japan Post Holdings Co. shall develop the corporate appropriate disclosure and provision of information. governance structure of Japan Post Group based on 4. Japan Post Holdings Co. shall carry out swift and the following concepts, with a view to ensuring decisive decision-making and business execution sustainable growth of Japan Post Group and creating under the effective supervision of the Board of corporate value over the medium to long term. Directors, in order to promptly cope with changes in 1. Japan Post Holdings Co. shall continue to create the social and economic environment and meet the new convenience for customers and pursue the expectations of all stakeholders. provision of high quality services, while generating Japan Post Holdings Co. sets out its “Basic Policy consistent value by providing universal services of on Corporate Governance” concerning the basic views, Japan Post Group’s three core businesses through framework and operation policy regarding the corporate Japan Post Group’s post office network. governance of Japan Post Holdings Co., with a view to 2. Fully recognizing its fiduciary responsibility to its ensuring sustainable growth of Japan Post Group and shareholders, Japan Post Holdings Co. shall give enhancing its corporate value over the medium to long consideration to appropriately secure rights and term, and develops the corporate governance structure equal treatment of shareholders. of Japan Post Group. 3. Japan Post Holdings Co. shall place emphasis on *For more information, please refer to the following website. dialogue with all stakeholders including customers https://www.japanpost.jp/en/group/governance/ and shareholders with an aim to ensure appropriate collaboration and sustainable coexistence. To this Japan Post Holdings Co. will continue to enhance end, Japan Post Holdings Co. shall strive to secure internal controls and strive to enhance corporate management transparency and commit to governance of Japan Post Group from this perspective. Group Operation and Management Structure Japan Post Holdings Co. has concluded agreements on management based on laws and regulations. The two Japan Post Group’s operation and management financial subsidiaries (Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan (hereinafter “Japan Post Group Management Post Insurance Co.) are required to give prior approval Agreements”) with and between Japan Post Co., Japan or reports for the purpose of securing the independence Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. on Japan of the two finance corporations, and the Group is Post Group’s common philosophy, policies and other promoting consolidated management as a Group and basic matters concerning group management, thereby working to ensure appropriate governance. Moreover, setting up a system to facilitate mutual collaboration and in accordance with Japan Post Group Management cooperation as well as exerting synergistic effects among Agreements, the Group Steering Committee was Japan Post Group companies. established to discuss and share a common In addition, Japan Post Co. is required to give prior understanding of important matters concerning group approval or report on matters which must be done in management among the management of Japan Post order to conduct Group operations in a smooth and Group companies for the purpose of promoting appropriate manner, as well as matters which require effective and efficient operation of Japan Post Group. Characteristics of the Board of Directors Characteristic (1) Characteristic (2) Characteristic (3) Characteristic (4) Company with nomination The majority of the board are Putting diversity into practice Implementation of Board of committee, etc. outside directors Directors effectiveness evaluation Since becoming a listed company in The Board of Directors consists of 15 The Board of Directors consists of Every year, the Board of Directors November 2015, Japan Post Holdings directors (up to 20 as defined in the diverse directors, who have a wealth of confirms the opinions of each director Co. has maintained a system as a Articles of Incorporation), of which the knowledge, experience and insight. regarding the Board of Directors company with nomination committee majority nine directors are independent meetings, then analyzes and evaluates Female Female Directors Directors etc. The nomination, compensation and outside directors. the effectiveness of the Board of audit committees have at least three 3 3 Directors overall, and discloses an members each, the majority of which (total 15 15 (total overview of the results, using them to Outside Outside Directors Directors members) members) are independent officers. improve operation of the Board of Directors. 9 9 (total 15 15 (total Foreign Director members) members) Foreign Director 1 1 (total 15 15 (total members) members) 60 Overview of Committees Japan Post Holdings Co. has adopted a structure of “company with nomination committee, etc.” Meetings in the fiscal year ended March Role and Structure Operation Status 31, 2019 (average Vision attendance rate) Board of Directors The Board of Directors, comprised of 15 Directors In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Board of Directors discussed the 12 times (97%) (including nine Outside Directors), determines development of the Group Medium-term Management Plan, as well as matters such as the basic management policy matters concerning the revision of our basic policies concerning corporate required by relevant laws and regulations, as well as governance, and received reports concerning the operation status of the the matters relating to the important execution of “internal control system”, group performance important issues, risk duties, and supervises the execution of duties by management and the state of compliance and internal audits. Directors and Executive Officers. Nomination The Nomination Committee, comprised of three In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Nomination Committee 3 times (100%) Committee Directors (including two Outside Directors), submits determined candidates for Directors, listened to succession plans for the Enhancing Corporate Value proposals to the General Meeting of Shareholders Directors and Representative Executive Officers and discussed the content of concerning the election and dismissal of Directors. plans. In addition, this committee examined and discussed the appointment In accordance with the provisions of the Act on and dismissal criteria for officers. Japan Post Holdings Co., resolutions for the election and dismissal of Directors of the Japan Post Holdings Co. shall not become effective without the approval of the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications. Compensation The Compensation Committee, comprised of three In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Compensation Committee 3 times (100%) Committee Directors (including two Outside Directors) decided on individual compensation for Directors and Executive Officers, as establishes the policy for determining the amount of well as performance-linked compensation for executives, and examined and compensation for each Director and Executive discussed the executive compensation system of Japan Post Holdings Co. Officer, and determines the amount for individual officers on the basis of this policy. Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of five Directors In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Audit Committee determined the 20 times (100%) (including four Outside Directors), who audit the auditing policy and auditing plan, and collaborated with the accounting Medium-term Strategy execution of duties by Directors and Executive auditors and Internal Auditing Department to conduct audits by attending Officers, audit the validity of methods and results of important meetings such as those of the Management Meeting. With regard auditing of financial statements by accounting to the internal control system developed based on resolutions by the Board of auditors and make audit reports. They also decide Directors, the Audit Committee received regular reports from Directors and on the content of proposals submitted at the general Executive Officers about the development and operation status of the internal shareholders’ meetings regarding the election, control system, and received regular reports from the departments in charge dismissal and nonreappointment of accounting of internal control functions, such as the Compliance Department, the Risk auditors. Management Department, the Accounting Department and the Finance Department. With regard to subsidiaries, the Audit Committee exchanged information with subsidiary Directors, Audit Committee members and Corporate Auditors, and received reports on business as necessary. In addition, the Audit Committee monitored and verified whether accounting auditors hold an independent positions and conduct audits properly. The Audit Committee also reviewed financial documents by receiving reports from the accounting auditors on the status of the execution of duties by the accounting auditors, and by receiving notices based on Article Sustainability 131 of the Ordinance on Company Accounting. ● Japan Post Holdings Co. Corporate Governance System Japan Post Holdings Shareholders’ meeting Board of Directors Nomination Committee ◆ Inside (6) Audit Committee ◆ Data Compilation Outside (9) Compensation Committee ◆ Internal Director Outside Director Internal Director (Non-Executive) Chairperson ◆ Executive bodies President & CEO Management Meeting Executive Officers Compliance Committee / CSR Committee / Information Disclosure Committee Investment Committee Japan Post Group Management Agreements Japan Post Group Management Contract Japan Post Japan Post Bank Japan Post Insurance *The number of members on the Board of Directors shall be an appropriate number of no more than 20 as stipulated in the articles of incorporation, and in principle, the majority shall be composed consist of independent officers. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 61 Sustainability Japan Post Group Corporate Governance Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Method of Evaluation other important issues. The effectiveness of the Board of Directors of Japan Since then, the Board of Directors has addressed Post Holdings Co. in the fiscal year ended March 31, these issues, but in this evaluation the issue was raised 2019 was evaluated based on the questionnaires for that despite the fact that discussions have been held the directors and opinions expressed at meetings of that spend more time on important issues, it is Outside Directors. necessary for all Directors to have a common understanding of the environment affecting business Overview of Evaluation Results and hold deeper discussions about giving direction to The evaluation reached the conclusion that in the Board the medium-term vision and strategy. of Directors, members with diverse experience and Furthermore, with regard to important management expertise actively engage in constructive discussions issues, the opinion was stated in the Board of Directors that make full of use their respective insights and that continuous monitoring and follow-up are necessary. experiences, and so the Board of Directors is generally In the future, from a broad perspective the Board of functioning well. Directors will hold deeper discussions on the direction In the evaluation made the previous year, the issue of business in the medium to long term, and from the was raised that there was room to improve, as the perspective of Group governance, and will further Board of Directors of a holding company should spend enhance its effectiveness as the Board of Directors of a more time discussing the direction of management of holding company. the entire Group, the medium-term growth strategy and Independence Criteria of Outside Directors All nine Outside Directors have been designated as Post Holdings Co., and being Outside Directors who independent executives having been deemed as have no risk of conflicts of interest with general meeting the “Standards for Designating Independent shareholders, as defined by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Directors of Japan Post Holdings Co.” defined by Japan Standards for Designating Independent Directors of Japan Post Holdings Co. Japan Post Holdings Co. shall designate independent officers as 5. Major shareholders of Japan Post Holdings Co. (if that party is a legal defined by the Tokyo Stock Exchange from among Outside Directors entity (excluding the Japanese Government), then anyone who is an who do not fall under any of the following categories. executive of that legal entity) 1. Anyone who has been an executive of the Japan Post Group in the 6. The spouse or relatives within second degree of kinship of the past following parties (excluding unimportant ones.) 2. Anyone for whom Japan Post Group is a major business partner, or (1) Anyone listed in parts 1 to 5 above an executive thereof (2) Executives of subsidiaries of Japan Post Holdings Co. 3. Anyone who is a major business partner of Japan Post Group, or an 7. E xecutives of other companies in which an executive of Japan Post executive thereof Group is appointed as an outside director 4. Consultants, accounting experts or legal experts who receive or 8. Anyone who has received a large amount of donations from the have received large payments of money or property from Japan Post Group (if the party who receives the donation is a corporation, a Group, other than executive compensation (if the party who obtains union, or other such organization, this includes anyone who is an the property is a corporation, a union, or other such organization, executive of that organization) this includes anyone who belongs to that organization now or who *Please see the following website for details. https://www.japanpost.jp/group/governance/pdf/02_08.pdf (Japanese) has belonged to that organization in the past) Training of Directors & Support System for Outside Directors Training of Directors provision of information as necessary, adequate Japan Post Holdings Co. provides opportunities for advance explanation of proposal contents and securing Directors to deepen their understanding and acquire of time for preliminary consideration and questionnecessary knowledge about such things as Japan Post asking by the Board of Directors to ensure smooth and Group’s businesses, issues to be addressed and effective operation of the Board and improve the management strategies by implementing measures effectiveness of supervision by Outside Directors. In such as tours of Japan Post Group’s facilities, so that addition, Japan Post Holdings Co. has established the Directors may properly fulfill the roles and responsibilities Office of the Board of Directors to streamline the expected of them. deliberation and reporting processes of the Board of Directors and check on the progress of resolutions Support System for Outside Directors made by the Board, as well as to support management Japan Post Holdings Co. has developed an operation and ensure communication and coordination with system for Outside Directors with consideration for the Outside Directors to conduct Board of Directors’ 62 coordination of a flexible annual schedule, accurate meetings effectively and efficiently. Policy on Appointment of Directors Scale and Composition of Candidates for Directors foresight and planning The Nominating Committee nominates diverse director (4)  Has an appropriate personality and insight as a candidates with different types of expertise and Director experience while taking into consideration the balance (5) Has no health problems when performing duties as Vision of the Board of Directors as a whole. The number of an Internal Director director candidates shall be an appropriate number of no more than 20, as defined in the Articles of Outside Directors Incorporation, and as a rule the majority shall be The Nomination Committee nominates people who composed of independent outside director candidates. meet the following conditions as Outside Director candidates of Japan Post Holdings Co. Enhancing Corporate Value Internal Directors (1)  Has knowledge of a specialized field, such as The Nomination Committee nominates people who management, accounting, finance, law, meet the following conditions as Internal Director administration, society and culture, etc., and has candidates of Japan Post Holdings Co. achieved appropriate results in these specialized (1) Has expertise in the business of Japan Post Holdings fields Co. (2)  Has an appropriate personality and insight as a (2) Has superior ability in management judgment and Director management execution (3)  Has no health or operational problems when (3) Has superior ability in leadership, determination, performing duties as an Outside Director Medium-term Strategy The reasons for nominating Outside Directors are as follows. Name Reason for Nomination Akio Mimura has served as Representative Director, President, and Chairman of Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation (now Nippon Steel Corporation). He has been involved in the management Akio Mimura of corporations for many years, so he is expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of his career. Tadashi Yagi has served as Nagoya Bureau Chief and later as Managing Controller of Kyodo News Service General Incorporated Association. He has deep insights of broad events affecting corporate Tadashi Yagi management, including politics and economics, so he is expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight. Kunio Ishihara has served as Director, President and Chairman of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Sustainability Co., Ltd. He has been involved in the management of corporations for many years, so he is expected to Kunio Ishihara fulfill management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of his career. Charles Ditmars Lake II has served as Chairman and Representative Director of Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. He has been involved in the management of corporations for many years, so he is expected Charles Ditmars Lake II to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of his career. Michiko Hirono has served as President of 21 Lady Co., Ltd. She has been involved in the management of corporations for many years, so she is expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions Michiko Hirono based on her experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of her career. Data Compilation Tsuyoshi Okamoto has served as Representative Director, President and Chairman of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. He has been involved in the management of corporations for many years, so he is expected to fulfill Tsuyoshi Okamoto management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of his career. Miharu Koezuka has served as Representative Director and Senior Managing Director of Takashimaya Company, Limited. She has been involved in the management of corporations for many years, so she is Miharu Koezuka expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on her experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of her career. Takayuki Aonuma has been in the legal profession for many years, including service as the superintendent public prosecutor of the Nagoya High Public Prosecutors Office. He is expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on his experience and insight as an expert in the law Takayuki Aonuma cultivated over the course of his career. Although Mr. Aonuma has never been involved in corporate management in any way other than serving as an outside officer in the past, for the reasons given above he has been deemed capable of properly performing his duties as an Outside Director. Sakie Akiyama has been involved in the management of corporations for many years as President of Sakie Akiyama Saki Corporation. She is expected to fulfill management oversight and check functions based on her experience and insight as an expert in management cultivated over the course of her career. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 63 Sustainability Japan Post Group Corporate Governance Compensation System for Directors and Executive Officers With regard to compensation of the Directors and Executive Officers of Japan Post Holdings Co., the Compensation Committee has set a “Policy to Determine Content of Compensation for Individual Directors and Executive Officers,” and the amount of compensation is determined in accordance with this policy. Compensation System (achievement status of management plans, etc.) in 1.  When serving concurrently as a Director and order to calculate points. Executive Officer, compensation shall be paid as an Individual evaluations are made by individually executive officer. evaluating the results and status of initiatives in business 2. Directors of Japan Post Holdings Co. shall be paid a that Executive Officer is responsible for. fixed amount of compensation according to their With regard to indicators related to company duty, based on the scope and size of their performance, in order to enable comprehensive responsibility for management. judgment of the degree of achievement of management, 3. E xecutive Officers of Japan Post Holdings Co. shall the Compensation Committee has set indicators from be paid basic compensation according to their duty multiple different categories, using “consolidated net (fixed amount compensation) and performanceincome attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co.” as a based stock compensation, as a mechanism that profitability indicator, “consolidated ordinary income functions as a sound incentive to promote sustainable ratio” as an efficiency indicator and “dividend per share” growth. as a shareholder return indicator that are suitable for the In addition, Directors or Executive Officers of Japan business format and content of Japan Post Holdings Co. Post Holdings Co. who simultaneously serve as a Indicators Performance in Director, Auditor, Executive or Executive Officer of a related to Goal the fiscal year company ended March 31, Japan Post Group company shall be paid compensation performance 2019 by the company where that Director or Executive Consolidated net Officer mainly executes business. income At least ¥330,000 attributable to ¥479,419 million million Japan Post Indicators of performance-based compensation, Holdings Co. the reason for selecting those indicators and the Consolidated method for deciding the amount of performanceordinary income At least 5.344% 6.503% ratio based compensation Dividend per With regard to performance-based stock compensation, share At least ¥50 ¥50 the Compensation Committee multiplies basic points based on the duties of an Executive Officer and There is no policy for determining the payment ratio individual evaluation points based on the execution of of performance-based compensation and other forms their responsibilities with a coefficient that changes of compensation. based on company performance each fiscal year Total amount of compensation for each executive category, total amount by type of compensation and number of Executive Officers Total amount by type of compensation Total amount of (Millions of yen) Classification compensation Number of persons (Millions of yen) Performance-based Fixed Compensation stock compensation Directors (excluding 27 27 — 1 Outside Directors) Executive Officers 768 627 141 26 Outside Directors 84 84 — 11 (Notes) 1. No compensation as a director is paid to those who concurrently serve as a Director and Executive Officer. 2. T  hree Directors serve concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers of major consolidated subsidiaries, but they have not been paid compensation as Directors of Japan Post Holdings Co. for the period that they belonged to a major consolidated subsidiary and only executed business of a major consolidated subsidiary. The total amount of compensation received by those three Directors from major consolidated subsidiaries is ¥123 million. 3. Seven Executive Officers serve concurrently as Directors or Executive Officers of major consolidated subsidiaries, six of whom have not been paid as Executive Officers of Japan Post Holdings Co. for the period in which they belonged to a major consolidated subsidiary and executed business of a major consolidated subsidiary. The total amount of compensation received by those six Directors from major consolidated subsidiaries is ¥167 million. 4. Performance-based stock compensation shows the amount recorded as expenses in the current fiscal year. 5. There are no retirement benefits or bonuses for Directors. 64 Policy Equity Holding Policy for Policy Equity expected to help ensure the efficient and sound 1. Japan Post Holdings Co. shall be able to acquire and management of the company in question, and hold shares of listed companies that are judged to improve its corporate value. contribute to the medium to long term improvement Vision of the corporate value of Japan Post Group for Methods of verifying the rationality of holding reasons other than net investment, such as policy equity and results of verification by the strengthening business alliances (hereinafter referred Board of Directors to as “policy equity”.). When verifying the policy equity held by Japan Post 2. Every year, the Board of Directors shall verify the aim Holdings Co., every year the Board of Directors verifies and rationality of holding policy equity that is held by the aim and rationality of holding policy equity that is Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Holdings Co., taking into account held by Japan Post Holdings Co., taking into account medium-to-long-term economic rationality and medium-to-long-term economic rationality and the future prospects, and disclose the content of this future prospects, and discloses the content of this verification. verification. 3. With regard to the exercise of voting rights on policy As a result of the Board of Directors conducting a equity, Japan Post Holdings Co. shall decide how to review as described above in June 2019, it was vote on proposals having individually examined confirmed to be appropriate to continue holding one whether each proposal conforms to Japan Post brand of policy equity held by Japan Post Holdings Co. Holdings Co.’s holding policy, and whether it can be Medium-term Strategy Primary Legal Regulations business other than as set forth by the laws based on the Insurance Business Act and In conducting its business, Japan Post Group is subject other related business regulations. In addition, Japan Post Insurance Co. is required to maintain a solvency margin ratio of at least 200% as an indicator of whether it has a to various legal regulations such as those described “payment reserve” that enables it to cope with risks that occur beyond normal expectations, such as catastrophic disasters or the massive collapse of stock prices. As below. of March 31, 2019, Japan Post Bank Co. has a consolidated capital adequacy ratio of 15.80% and Japan Post Insurance Co. has a consolidated solvency margin ratio of 1,189.8%, so both subsidiaries have maintained high levels compared with the ratios (1) Regulations based on the Postal Act and other laws regulated by law. Under the Postal Act, Japan Post Co., our consolidated subsidiary, has exclusive rights to conduct postal business in Japan. As such, it is subject to regulations specific to a business (b) Regulations pertaining to Japan Post Co. unlike that of other companies, such as the authorization system for business consignment Based on the Banking Act and the Insurance Business Act, Japan Post Co. is subject to and changes to postal agreements, the uniform nationwide fee system, fee limits on supervision by the Financial Services Agency with regard to the post office business of standard-size mail and the notification system for postage fees (including the authorization Japan Post Group as a banking agency and affiliated bank of Japan Post Bank Co. and Sustainability system for third-class and fourth-class mail). as an insurance solicitor and affiliated insurance company of Japan Post Insurance Co. As a banking agency, Japan Post Co. is not permitted to conduct business other (2) R  egulations based on the Banking Act and the Insurance Business Act than as set forth by law and is subject to such regulations as the obligation for separate The banking and life insurance businesses of Japan Post Group are subject to financial management, the obligation to explain banking agency services it engages in to business regulations that are typically applied to such businesses, such as the Banking customers, and the prohibition of certain activities such as making definitive claims, Act and the Insurance Business Act. without approval from the Prime Minister. Also, as an insurance solicitor, it is subject to such regulations as the obligation to provide explanations for customers and the (a) R  egulations pertaining to Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. prohibition of certain activities such as providing false explanations. Japan Post Bank Co., our consolidated subsidiary, engages in the banking business and Japan Post Insurance Co., also our consolidated subsidiary, engages in the life (c) Regulations pertaining to Japan Post Holdings Co. insurance business (hereinafter referred to as our “two financial subsidiaries” and are As a bank holding company and insurance holding company, Japan Post Holdings Co. subject to supervision by the Financial Services Agency, based on the Banking Act and is also subject to supervision by the Financial Services Agency based on the Banking the Insurance Business Act. In particular, they are subject to broad oversight by the Act and the Insurance Business Act, and required to maintain a consolidated capital Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency, who is appointed by the Prime Minister, adequacy ratio of at least 4.0% (Japanese standard) and a solvency margin ratio of at which includes revocation of their licenses if they violate any laws or regulations, as well least 200%. Furthermore, it is obligated to maintain a system for protecting the interests as suspension of their business and conducting of on-site inspections when deemed of customers and submitting business reports to regulatory authorities every business necessary for the purpose of assuring sound and proper business operations. Data Compilation year. Japan Post Bank Co. is not permitted to conduct business other than as set forth As of March 31, 2019, Japan Post Holdings Co. has a consolidated capital by the laws based on the Banking Act and other related business regulations. In terms adequacy ratio of 17.73% and a consolidated solvency margin ratio of 670.7%, so it has of the capital adequacy ratio, which is the standard for achieving an adequate level of maintained high levels compared to the ratios regulated by law. equity capital, Japan Post Bank Co. is required to maintain a ratio of at least 4.0% (Japanese standard). Japan Post Insurance Co. is also not permitted to conduct (d) Licensing required by law Japan Post Group has been licensed or authorized primarily as described in the table below. License Related Law Company Expiration Date Reasons for Cancellation, etc. Bank Holding Company Article 52-17, Paragraph 1 of the Banking Act Japan Post Holdings Co. None Article 52-34, Paragraph 1 of the Banking Act Authorization Insurance Holding Company Article 271-18, Paragraph 1 of the Insurance Article 271-30, Paragraph 1 of the Insurance Japan Post Holdings Co. None Authorization Business Act Business Act Bank Agency Authorization Article 52-36, Paragraph 1 of the Banking Act Japan Post Co. None Article 52-56, Paragraph 1 of the Banking Act Life Insurance Solicitor Article 307, Paragraph 1 of the Insurance Article 276 of the Insurance Business Act Japan Post Co. None Registration Business Act Article 26, Paragraph 1; Article 27; Article 28 of Banking Business License Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the Banking Act Japan Post Bank Co. None the Banking Act Article 132, Paragraph 1; Article 133; Article Insurance Business License Article 3, Paragraph 4 of the Insurance Business Act Japan Post Insurance Co. None 134 of the Insurance Business Act JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 65 Sustainability Japan Post Group Corporate Governance (3) Regulations specifically applicable to Japan Post Group for specific endowment insurance is ¥5 million, and the insurance amount of special Based on the Postal Service Privatization Act and other laws, Japan Post Holdings Co. endowment insurance for insured persons who are 55 years old or older, in combination and Japan Post Co. are obligated to provide postal services so that payment of simple with regular fixed term insurance, is ¥8 million) savings, remittances, services for settlement of debts and credits, and services for However, if the insured person is age 20 to 54, this limit can be up to ¥20 million under easy-to-use life insurance are available to customers at post offices in an integrated certain conditions (such as when there is an insurance policy that has passed 4 or more format and in a manner that is easy to use by customers. They are also obligated by law years since enrolling). to maintain the post office network to ensure fair use across all of Japan well into the B. Enrollment limit amount for pension (excluding nursing care pension) future (provision of services through the post office network based on these obligations ¥900,000 annually (amount of basic pension in the first year) (Excluding the amount for referred to hereinafter as “universal services”). the insured person who is the spouse in marital pension insurance, as well as marital With regard to universal services, in October 2013 the Minister for Internal Affairs insurance with marital pension insurance.) and Communications consulted with its consultative body, the Postal Policy Committee C. Enrollment limit of special insurance coverage of the Telecommunications Council, about “Securing universal services of the postal i. Security for having a disease or injury, or the state of a person caused by having a business and the proper means for revitalizing the post and correspondence market,” disease, death caused directly by having an injury, or similar such states… ¥10 million in and a report was issued by the Telecommunications Council on September 28, 2015. total Depending on the content of the government policies implemented in response to ii. Security for treatment of the issues listed above… ¥10 million the report, it is possible they will have an effect on the business, performance, and (Notes) The insurance amount of special policies are limited within the insurance amount financial status of the Japan Post Group. of the basic policy to which the special policy is added. However, with regard to the In the report, with regard to securing universal services, it states that in the short insurance amount of the underwriting-based relief non-divided general medical special term, “Japan Post Holdings Co. and Japan Post Co. are required to maintain the current policy which was launched for sale in April 2019, when the enrollment age of the basic scope and level of services by their own management efforts,” and, “In addition, it is policy to which the special policy is added is within the range of enrollment ages which necessary for the national government to examine measures that will serve as incentives can enroll in 5-fold or 2-fold type policies, the limit is 5 times or 2 times the insurance for securing universal services.” The report continues, stating that in the medium to long amount of the basic policy. The insurance amount of advanced medical treatment term, “Considering changes in the environment of the postal business or in the scope special policies can exceed the insurance amount of the basic policy to which the and level of service expected by the people and users in response, it is necessary to special policy is added, and is uniformly set at ¥3 million. continuously examine measures for securing universal services and how the cost D. Enrollment limit of total paid-in premiums burden is borne.” Property savings insurance and property housing insurance… ¥5.5 million in total (In Although the Telecommunications Council estimates the cost of universal services addition, there is a limitation on the total paid-in premium according to relevant laws and to the postal business, it is an estimate made independently by the Council and not regulations regarding property-type insurance.) produced by Japan Post Group. Also, Japan Post Holdings Co. and Japan Post Co. are required to receive (4) Outline of the law partially revising the Act on the Management Organization for authorization from the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications to engage in new Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance and its impact on business consignment businesses, solicit shares, elect or dismiss directors (Japan Post Holdings Co. only), contracts with the two financial subsidiaries formulate business plans, amend articles of incorporation, conduct mergers or split or On December 1, 2018, a law was enacted to partially revise the Act on the Management dissolve companies based on the Act on Japan Post Holdings Co. and Act on Japan Organization for Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance. This resulted in the name of Post Co., respectively, (however, only notification of new businesses to the Minister for the Management Organization for Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance being Internal Affairs and Communications is required for Japan Post Co.). Furthermore, the changed to the “Organization for Postal Savings, Postal Life Insurance and Post Office two financial institutions, in addition to regulations based on the Banking Act and the Network” (hereinafter referred to as the “Japan Postal Service Organization”. Insurance Business Act, are required to receive authorization from the Prime Minister Accordingly, one item was added to the purpose of the Japan Postal Service and the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications based on the Postal Service Organization, stating “Secure provision of basic services pertaining to postal services Privatization Act to engage in new businesses, hold subsidiaries of financial institutions and contribute to securing convenience for users and the stability of public life by (Japan Post Bank Co.) and particular subsidiaries (Japan Post Insurance Co.), conduct making grants to support the maintenance of the post office network.” mergers, split companies or transfer and receive businesses in order to ensure equal The expenses required to maintain the post office network were previously competitive conditions with other companies engaged in similar business. Japan Post covered by commission fees based on the contract between Japan Post Co. and related Bank Co. may not in itself have banks as subsidiaries and neither may Japan Post banks and insurance companies. Among these expenses, basic expenses excluding Insurance Co. have insurance companies as subsidiaries. In addition, the two financial the amount that should be borne by Japan Post Co. shall be covered by grants issued institutions are subject to regulations different from other companies in the same by the Japan Postal Service Organization to Japan Post Co. using funds from Japan industry, such as deposit limit regulations in the banking business and subscription limit Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. starting in the fiscal year ending March 31, regulations in the life insurance business. 2020, based on this law. The method for calculating the basic expenses is to find the sum of the following (Reference) Maximum deposit amounts in Japan Post Bank Co. expenses based on the latest status of maintenance of the post office network. Under the Postal Service Privatization Act, Japan Post Bank Co. restricts the amount of A. Labor costs, rents, construction expenses and other expenses required to maintain deposits that can be accepted from a single depositor, except for transfer savings post offices, expenses required to transport and manage cash, as well as fixed property equivalent to checking deposits. (Article 107 of the Postal Service Privatization Act, tax and business office tax, when the post office network is configured with post offices Article 2 of the Postal Service Privatization Act Enforcement Ordinance) of the minimum scale necessary to ensure that universal services are available at post A. Regular savings, fixed amount savings, fixed term savings (Excluding B) … ¥13 million offices throughout Japan. in total B. Expenses required for the minimum consignment to ensure that basic services B. Property fixed amount savings, property pension fixed amount savings, property related to postal service can be used at contracted post offices. housing fixed amount savings… ¥5.5 million in total The administrative expenses of the Japan Postal Service Organization related to However, the maximum amount of money of A and B includes postal savings deposited the calculation of these basic expenses and grants/funds are allotted in proportion to before postal service privatization (taken over by the Organization for Postal Savings, the degree of use of the post office network by users expected in mail counter work, Postal Life Insurance and Post Office Network). bank counter work and insurance counter work. Japan Post Bank Co. shall contribute Based on a government ordinance promulgated on March 13, 2019 partially the allotted amount for the bank counter work, while Japan Post Insurance Co. shall revising the Postal Service Privatization Act Enforcement Ordinance, the deposit limits contribute the allotted amount related for the insurance counter work, with the amount have been changed as follows from April 1, 2019, the enforcement date of that calculated each year by the Japan Postal Service Organization, and approval obtained government ordinance. There is no change in the scope of savings protected by the from the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications. In the fiscal year ending March deposit insurance system. 31, 2020, the amount of contributions to be paid by Japan Post Bank Co. in the fiscal A. Regular savings… ¥13 million year ending March 31, 2020 is ¥237.8 billion, and the amount to be paid by Japan Post B. Fixed savings (Fixed amount savings and fixed term savings. Includes postal savings Insurance Co. is ¥57.5 billion. deposited before postal service privatization (taken over by the Organization for Postal From the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, the basic expenses required for Savings, Postal Life Insurance and Post Office Network) but excludes C.) … ¥13 million maintaining the post office network are paid for with grants issued by the Japan Postal C. Property fixed amount savings, property pension fixed amount savings, property Service Organization to Japan Post Co. using funds from Japan Post Bank Co. and housing fixed amount savings… ¥5.5 million in total Japan Post Insurance Co., with the exception of the amount that should be borne by Japan Post Co. Using this opportunity, Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance (Reference) Enrollment limit at Japan Post Insurance Co. Co. are revising the consignment fees they pay to Japan Post Co. based on consignment Insurance policies for Japan Post Insurance Co. have limits defined by the Postal contracts starting from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020. Bank agency service fees Service Privatization Act and related laws regarding the amount of insurance that an have been revised to eliminate “counter basic fees” to maintain the post office network, insured person can be enrolled for (insurance limit amount). (Article 137 of the Postal and insurance agency service fees have been revised to reduce the fees paid according Service Privatization Act, Articles 6, 7, and 8 of the Postal Service Privatization Act to the number of post offices, out of “maintenance and collection fees” paid according Enforcement Ordinance) to the number of policies held. If the insured person has subscribed to a postal life insurance policy since before postal service privatization, then the enrollment limit is the difference of the policy (5) World Trade Organization (WTO): Government procurement rules amount of their postal life insurance policy subtracted from the following amounts. As successors of government-owned companies, Japan Post Holdings Co., Japan Post A. Enrollment limit of the basic policy insurance amount Co. and the two financial institutions are required to comply with procedures set forth by i. When the insured person is 15 years old or younger: ¥7 million international agreements when procuring items subject to government procurement ii. When the insured person is 16 years old or older: ¥10 million (the insurance amount agreements and other international agreements. 66 Dialogue with Shareholders Japan Post Group will work to disclose information corporate value. The management team will share accurately and fairly to all shareholders and investors requests received through this dialogue and use them and engage in constructive dialogue in order to achieve to improve management. sustainable growth and improve medium-to-long-term Vision ● IR Annual Schedule First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter April May June July August September October November December January February March Enhancing Corporate Value Full Year Financial Results 1Q Financial Results 2Q Financial Results 3Q Financial Results General Meeting of Shareholders Integrated Report Issued Intermediate Disclosure Published ● Activities in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Date: June 19, 2019 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Attendees: 918 Briefing Sessions for Individual Investors for Fiscal Year Ended Meetings Held: 23 March 31, 2019 Participants: Approximately 1,460 Medium-term Strategy Financial Results Briefings & Small Meetings for Fiscal Year Meetings Held: 7 Ended March 31, 2019 (for Institutional Investors & Analysts) Dialogue with Institutional Investors & Analysts Meetings Held: Approximately 200 (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019) (Including about 120 individual interviews with overseas investors) Participation in IR Conferences in Japan and Abroad Meetings Held: 6 (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019) Sustainability 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders For the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Results Briefing (June 19, 2019) (May 22, 2019) Appropriate Information Disclosure The Company shall make disclosures through such related laws and regulations, securities listing Data Compilation means as the Electronic Disclosure for Investors’ regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, etc. Other NETwork (EDINET), the Timely Disclosure network information other than the above shall be disclosed (TDnet) and the Company’s website, as required based through the Company’s website and other means. on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, other ● Total Shareholder Return (Based on March 31, 2016) Japan Post Holdings Co. TOPIX* March 31, 2017 -3.7% 14.7% March 31, 2018 -7.6% 32.9% March 31, 2019 -3.3% 26.2% *including dividends JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 67 Sustainability Directors Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd.; Director of Japan Post Bank Director, Japan Post Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd.; Director of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Career Summary Career Summary May 2005 Director-General of the Postal Services Policy June 2000 Executive Officer of The Industrial Bank of Japan, Department, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Limited June 2001 Managing Executive Officer of The (MIC) July 2006 Director-General of the Information and Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited April 2002 Managing Communications Policy Bureau, MIC July 2007 Vice-Minister Executive Officer of Mizuho Bank, Ltd. April 2003 Managing for Policy Coordination (Postal Service & Communication), MIC Executive Officer of Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. June 2006 July 2009 Administrative Vice-Minister for Management and Corporate Executive Vice President of Fuji Heavy Industries Coordination, MIC January 2010 Advisor to MIC October Ltd. June 2007 Director of the Board, Corporate Executive 2010 Advisor to Sompo Japan Inc. (currently Sompo Japan Masatsugu Nagato Vice President of Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. June 2010 Yasuo Suzuki Nipponkoa Insurance Inc.) June 2013 Director and Director and Representative Executive Representative Director of the Board, Deputy President of Fuji Director and Representative Executive Representative Executive Officer, Executive Vice President of Officer, President & CEO Heavy Industries Ltd. June 2011 Director & Vice Chairman of Officer, Senior Executive Vice the Company; Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd. (present) June Member of the Nomination Committee Citibank Japan Ltd. January 2012 Director & Chairman of President, in charge of Internal 2015 Director and Representative Executive Officer, Senior Member of the Compensation Citibank Japan Ltd. May 2015 President and Representative Control Management Executive Vice President of the Company (present) Committee Number of shares held: 8,800 shares Number of shares held: 3,800 shares Executive Officer of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. June 2015 Number of years as director: 6 years Number of years as director: 4 years Director of the Company April 2016 Director and Attendance at Board of Directors Attendance at Board of Directors Representative Executive Officer, President & CEO of the meetings: 12/12 times (100%) meetings: 11/12 times (91.7%) Attendance at Nomination Committee Company (present); Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd. (to meetings: 3/3 times (100%) present); Director of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. (present) Attendance at Compensation June 2016 Director of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (present) Committee meetings: 3/3 times (100%) Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Director, President and Representative Executive Officer of President & CEO (Representative Executive Officer) of Japan Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd.; Outside Director of FANCL Post Co., Ltd. CORPORATION Career Summary Career Summary February 2006 Executive Officer of the Company October June 1996 Director of The Bank of Yokohama, Ltd. April 2007 Senior Managing Executive Officer of the Company 2001 Representative Director of The Bank of Yokohama, Ltd. October 2009 Executive Officer of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking June 2003 Director of The Bank of Yokohama, Ltd.; Corporation April 2011 Managing Executive Officer of Representative Director and Chairman of Yokohama Capital Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation May 2013 Executive Co., Ltd. December 2003 President of The Ashikaga Bank, Deputy President of Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Ltd. (Representative Director) June 2004 President of The Company, Limited June 2013 Director and Deputy President, Norito Ikeda Ashikaga Bank, Ltd. (Chief Executive Officer) September Kunio Yokoyama Executive Deputy President of Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Director 2008 Special Advisor to A.T. Kearney February 2012 Director Management Company, Limited April 2014 Representative Number of shares held: 1,100 shares President and Representative Director of the Organization to Number of shares held: 2,300 shares Director, President & CEO of Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Number of years as director: 3 years Support Revitalization of Businesses Affected by the Great East Number of years as director: 3 years Management Company, Limited June 2016 President & CEO Attendance at Board of Directors Japan Earthquake April 2016 President and Representative Attendance at Board of Directors (Representative Executive Officer) of Japan Post Co., Ltd. meetings: 12/12 times (100%) meetings: 12/12 times (100%) Executive Officer of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. June 2016 (present); Director of the Company (present) Director, President and Representative Executive Officer of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. (present); Director of the Company (present) Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Director and President, CEO Representative Executive Officer None of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Career Summary Career Summary April 2007 Executive Officer of Japan Post Corporation June 2012 Executive Officer of Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. (Nippon Yusei Kosha) October 2007 Managing Executive June 2013 Managing Executive Officer of Japan Post Officer of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. June 2017 Director of Insurance Co., Ltd. June 2015 Senior Managing Executive the Company (present) Officer of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. June 2017 Director and President, CEO Representative Executive Officer of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (present); Director of the Company (present) Mitsuhiko Uehira Riki Mukai Director Director Number of shares held: 700 shares Member of the Audit Committee Number of years as director: 2 years (standing) Attendance at Board of Directors Number of shares held: 1,500 shares meetings: 11/12 times (91.7%) Number of years as director: 2 years Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 12/12 times (100%) Attendance at Audit Committee meetings: 20/20 times (100%) Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Honorary Company Fellow and Honorary Chairman of NIPPON Adviser to K.K. Kyodo News STEEL CORPORATION; Chairman of the Japan Chamber of Career Summary Commerce and Industry; Chairman of the Tokyo Chamber of January 2008 Nagoya Bureau Chief (Equivalent to Director) of Commerce and Industry; Outside Director of Development Kyodo News Service Incorporated Association (currently Kyodo Bank of Japan Inc.; External Director of INCJ (Innovation News Service General Incorporated Association) June 2010 Network Corporation of Japan), Ltd.; Outside Director of Tokio Managing Controller of Kyodo News Service June 2012 Marine Holdings, Inc.; Outside Director of Nisshin Seifun Group Special Advisor to Kyodo News Service June 2013 Director Inc. of the Company (present); Corporate Auditor of Kyodo Tsushin Career Summary Kaikan Co., Ltd. June 2015 Corporate Auditor of K.K. Kyodo June 1993 Director of Nippon Steel Corporation (currently News June 2016 Advisor to K.K. Kyodo News (present) Akio Mimura NIPPON STEEL CORPORATION) April 1997 Managing Director Tadashi Yagi Outside Director of NSC April 2000 Representative Director and Executive Vice Outside Director Chairperson of the Nomination President of NSC April 2003 Representative Director and Chairperson of the Audit Committee Committee President of NSC April 2008 Representative Director and Member of the Compensation Number of shares held: −shares Chairman of NSC October 2012 Director and Senior Advisor to Committee Number of years as director: 6 years Number of shares held: 5,400 shares Attendance at Board of Directors the Board of NSC June 2013 Director of the Company Number of years as director: 6 years meetings: 10/12 times (83.3%) (present); Senior Advisor to the Board of Nippon Steel & Attendance at Board of Directors Attendance at Nomination Committee Sumitomo Metal Corporation November 2013 Senior Advisor meetings: 12/12 times (100%) meetings: 3/3 times (100%) Attendance at Audit Committee to the Board and Honorary Chairman of Nippon Steel & meetings: 20/20 times (100%) Sumitomo Metal Corporation (present) Attendance at Compensation Committee meetings: 3/3 times (100%) 68 Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Senior Advisor to the Board of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Chairman and Representative Director of Aflac Life Insurance Insurance Co., Ltd.; External Corporate Auditor of Tokyu Japan Ltd.; President and Member of the Board of Directors of Corporation; External Director of NIKON CORPORATION Aflac International Incorporated; Outside Director of Tokyo Career Summary Electron Ltd. June 1995 Director of Tokio Marine and Fire Insurance Co., Career Summary Ltd. (TMFI) June 1998 Managing Director of TMFI June August 1992 Director for Japan Affairs, Office of the U.S. Trade 2000 Senior Managing Director of TMFI June 2001 Director Representative July 1993 Director for Japan Affairs and Vision and President of TMFI April 2002 Director and President of Special Counsel to the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Millea Holdings, Inc. October 2004 Director and President of January 1995 Attorney at Dewey Ballantine LLP June 1999 Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. June 2007 Vice President and Counsel of Japan Branch, American Family Kunio Ishihara Director and Chairman of the Board of Tokio Marine & Nichido Charles Ditmars Lake II Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac Japan) July 2001 Outside Director Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.; Director and Chairman of the Board of Outside Director Deputy President of Aflac Japan January 2003 President and Member of the Nomination Committee Millea Holdings, Inc. July 2008 Director and Chairman of the Number of shares held: —shares Representative of Aflac Japan April 2005 Vice Chairman and Number of shares held: 6,200 shares Board of Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. June 2013 Senior Number of years as outside director: 3 Representative of Aflac Japan July 2008 Chairman and Number of years as director: 4 years Advisor to the Board of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance years Representative of Aflac Japan January 2014 President and Attendance at Board of Directors Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 12/12 times (100%) Co., Ltd. (present) June 2015 Director of the Company meetings: 12/12 times (100%) Member of the Board of Directors of Aflac International Attendance at Nomination Committee (present) Incorporated (present) June 2016 Director of the Company meetings: 3/3 times (100%) (present) April 2018 Chairman and Representative Director of Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. (present) Enhancing Corporate Value Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions None Senior Corporate Advisor to Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.; Outside Career Summary Director of Asahi Kasei Corp.; Outside Director of Mitsubishi May 1997 Managing Director of PokkaCreate Co., Ltd. July Estate Co., Ltd. 1998 Senior Vice-President of K.K. MVC July 1998 Vice Career Summary President of Tully’s Coffee Japan Co., Ltd. March 2000 June 2002 Executive Officer of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April Founded 21 Lady Co., Ltd., President (present) June 2002 2004 Senior Executive Officer of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June Representative Director and President of HIROTA Co., Ltd. 2004 Director, Senior Executive Officer of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. March 2010 Representative Director and President of Illums April 2007 Representative Director, Executive Vice President Japan Co., Ltd. November 2011 Representative Director, of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April 2010 Representative Director, Chairman and President of HIROTA Co, Ltd. June 2014 President of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April 2014 Director, Michiko Hirono Outside Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd. June 2016 Director Tsuyoshi Okamoto Chairman of Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 2016 Outside Director (Michiko Fujii) of the Company (present) Outside Director of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. April 2018 Director, Senior Medium-term Strategy Outside Director Chairperson of the Compensation Corporate Advisor to Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 2018 Director Number of shares held: 2,300 shares Committee of the Company (present) July 2018 Senior Corporate Advisor Number of years as outside director: 3 Number of shares held: 600 shares to Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. (present) years Number of years as director: 1 year Attendance at Board of Directors Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 12/12 times (100%) meetings: 10/10 times (100%) Attendance at Compensation Committee meetings: 2/2 times (100%) Significant Concurrent Positions Significant Concurrent Positions Advisor to Takashimaya Company Limited; Director of Attorney, Outside Corporate Auditor of FamilyMart UNY Okayama Takashimaya Co., Ltd.; Advisor to Dear Mayuko Co., Holdings Co., Ltd. Ltd.; Outside Director of Nankai Electric Railway Co., Ltd. Career Summary Career Summary April 2005 Director of Trial Department, Osaka District Public May 2007 Executive Officer of Takashimaya Company, Limited Prosecutors Office January 2010 Prosecutor of Supreme March 2009 Senior Executive Officer of Takashimaya Public Prosecutors Office December 2010 Director-General Sustainability Company, Limited February 2010 President (Representative of the Rehabilitation Bureau, Ministry of Justice July 2014 Director) of Okayama Takashimaya Co., Ltd. May 2013 Chief Prosecutor of Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office Director of Takashimaya Company, Limited September 2013 December 2015 Deputy Prosecutor-General of Supreme Senior Managing Director (Representative Director) of Public Prosecutors Office September 2016 Superintending Miharu Koezuka Takashimaya Company, Limited; Director of Okayama Takayuki Aonuma Prosecutor of Nagoya High Public Prosecutors Office Outside Director Takashimaya Co., Ltd. (present) March 2016 Director of Outside Director February 2018: Attorney of City-Yuwa Partners (present) Member of the Audit Committee Takashimaya Company, Limited May 2016 Advisor to Member of the Audit Committee June 2019 Director of the Company (present) Number of shares held: 400 shares Takashimaya Company, Limited (present) October 2016 Number of shares held: —shares Number of years as director: 1 year Representative Director and President of Dear Mayuko Co., Attendance at Board of Directors meetings: 10/10 times (100%) Ltd. March 2018 Advisor to Dear Mayuko Co., Ltd. (present) Attendance at Audit Committee June 2018 Director of the Company (present) meetings: 15/15 times (100%) Data Compilation Significant Concurrent Positions Founder (Advisor) of Saki Corporation, Outside Director of Sony Corporation, Outside Director of ORIX Corporation Career Summary April 1994 Found Saki Corporation, Representative Director and President September 2018 Founder (Advisor) of Saki Corporation (present) June 2019 Director of the Company (present) Sakie Akiyama Outside Director Member of the Audit Committee Number of shares held: —shares JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 69 Sustainability Interview with Outside Director Akio Mimura Outside Director of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. Honorary Company Fellow and Honorary Chairman of NIPPON STEEL CORPORATION Chairman of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry What are your thoughts on the current state an environment in which the Outside Directors can of the Board of Directors? easily voice their opinions to engage in active Japan Post Holdings Co. has adopted a structure of discussions, and I believe Directors’ roundtable company with nomination committee, etc., under which discussions also fulfill a certain function. Additionally, I the majority of directors are independent Outside feel that questions from the Outside Directors as well as Directors, and it undertakes management with a clear opinions derived from the evaluation of the effectiveness separation of roles, with execution carried out under the of the Board of Directors are being responded to Executive Officer, President & CEO and supervision seriously. performed by the Board of Directors. In governance, there are no absolute correct Therefore, matters brought up to the Board of answers such as “everything will be okay as long as you Directors have basically been given sufficient do this.” With this in mind, it is crucial to constantly take consideration at executive bodies. Nevertheless, the repeated resourceful approaches to assure effectiveness. expected role of Outside Directors is to deliberate on In the future as well, I would like to see everyone maintain important matters based on their knowledge and their tireless efforts in accordance with the business experience gained from their respective fields of environment and issues surrounding the Company. I, specialization and to supervise overall business too, will personally strive to continue to contribute to execution from an objective standpoint. these efforts as an Outside Director. At the Company’s Board of Directors, we maintain 70 Could you explain your thoughts on the movements via deregulation and other measures, with current state of Japan Post Group, such as the main target year being 2020, when the Tokyo its features and strengths? Olympics and Paralympics will be held. Many specific Looking first of all at circumstances in Japan, thanks to initiatives such as demonstration testing have already the effectiveness of Abenomics, the Japanese economy gotten underway in various fields. continues to normalize after finally emerging from Japan Post Group has already commenced attempts Vision prolonged persistent deflation. Regarding the economy to use autonomous driving and delivery robots as well, as a whole, however, the labor shortage is the biggest and the Group must make further active efforts toward issue amid insufficient supply capabilities. Moreover, I actual social implementation. Furthermore, it is also believe the actual management of financial institutions is important to strengthen collaboration with outside also becoming increasingly severe due to long-running partners so that each business mutually brings its own monetary easing. Over the medium and long terms as strengths and deploys mutually complementary roles. Enhancing Corporate Value well, improving productivity, promoting regional vitalization and assuring the sustainability of social security even with a declining population are absolutely As Chairperson of the Nomination essential. Under these conditions, the role that must be Committee, what are your views about the fulfilled by Japan Post Group is extremely large. election of Directors? Since its very beginning with the start of postal The most important matter for any company is to select operations in 1871, the postal business has served as the most suitable management members giving one of Japan’s most important infrastructures, and consideration to such factors as moment-to-moment through the provision of enhanced postal, banking and business characteristics, the management environment insurance services it has helped enrich the lives of the and management issues. At Japan Post Holdings Co., Medium-term Strategy country’s citizens and local communities. upon prescribing Nominating Criteria for Candidates for The network built through the establishment of post Directors for ideal human resources for both internal offices across Japan during this process and the trust in Directors and Outside Directors, the Nomination this network are Japan Post Group’s biggest assets. In Committee convenes two to three times per year to the future, I foresee Japan Post Group being put to the discuss and then decide on the specific persons to be test in addressing such issues as utilizing these assets selected. to balance its public nature with profitability, improve Regarding internal Directors, it is important to productivity within the current labor shortage, engage in systematically nurture people who are suitable to serve value creation in collaboration with other stakeholders as a Director of Japan Post Holdings Co., which is and promote regional vitalization. involved in a wide range of business fields. The President & CEO, who is a member of the Nomination Committee, Sustainability and the Outside Directors engage in sincere exchanges What do you believe Japan Post Group must of opinions. I believe we should also nurture and elect do to raise corporate value? Directors from a mediumand long-term perspective. Japan Post Group must fully leverage its strengths and Regarding Outside Directors as well, to ensure assets that include its nationwide network of post supervision responsibilities are fulfilled through the offices, customer base, human resources and land. In Board of Directors and other bodies, bringing expertise each business, Japan Post Group should work to solve and outstanding insights from a diversity of fields and issues throughout the world and promote initiatives to engaging in frank and lively exchanges of opinions are build these efforts into an earnings base. important. Because Outside Directors do not have Data Compilation For improving productivity in particular, specific access to the same volume of information as executive seeds have already begun to sprout in the form of the bodies, one key role of Outside Directors is to bring latest technologies that include such digital technologies crucial matters to the attention of management by as artificial intelligence (AI), information technology (IT) raising “good questions” that get directly to the essence and the Internet of Things (IoT), as well as autonomous of resolutions from perspectives not based on internal driving. There are also rising needs for solving such conventional thinking and avoid digressionary issues as how can private-sector companies maintain discussions from start to finish. the sustainability of their business amid a labor shortage In the future, while exchanging opinions with and how can regional communities maintain essential executive bodies and other Outside Directors, I would services despite declining populations. Through like to candidly express my opinions regarding optimal considerations at such forums as the Council on Directors for the Company and the state of the Board of Investments for the Future, in which I also participate, Directors. the Japanese government will provide a boost to such JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 71 Sustainability Japan Post Group Risk Management Japan Post Holdings Co., as the holding company of Japan Post Group, recognizes that properly managing risk within the Group is one of management’s highest priorities and has formulated a basic policy concerning Group risk management. Based on the shared understanding of this policy among Group companies, Japan Post Holdings Co. establishes a risk management system for the entire Group. Japan Post Holdings Co. is committed to preventing the transfer of risk from one Group company to another. Japan Post Holdings Co. is also committed to assuring that Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co., the Group’s financial companies, continue to strengthen their risk management systems as independent financial institutions and implement autonomous risk management. Group Risk Management Framework As a basic policy concerning Group risk management, submits Group company risk management reports to Japan Post Group has laid down basic principles of risk the Board of Directors and the Management Meeting. management and fundamental matters that should be The Management Meeting also discusses the Group’s observed by Group companies in implementing risk risk management policies and risk management management, including categories of risks that should systems. In addition, the Board of Directors appropriately be managed by each company. Japan Post Group supervises Executive Officers who execute business. performs Group risk management based on this policy. Japan Post Group pays particular attention to Directors and Executive Officers of Group preventing any conflicts of interest when determining companies recognize the importance of risk the authority and responsibility of organizations, management and are responsible for notifying executives and employees who engage in risk employees of risk management policy as well as management and has a system in place that ensures working to develop and properly operate risk appropriate checks and balances among these parties. management systems. Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance In addition, Japan Post Holdings Co. has a Risk Co. are exposed to market risk, credit risk and other Management Department for the purpose of monitoring types of risk that are unique to the provision of financial risk for the entire Japan Post Group. The Risk services. Each Group company identifies risks to be Management Department receives reports from and quantified and then uses VaR (value at risk, a measure has discussions with Group companies on matters of the maximum expected loss that could occur due to related to their risk management, thereby setting up a events with a certain probability) and other methods to system to properly identify and monitor risk for the objectively and appropriately measure these risks in a Group as a whole. uniform manner. The Executive Officer in charge of risk periodically Japan Post Holdings Co. manages risk by ● Risk Management Framework for Japan Post Group Japan Post Holdings Co. Board of Directors Audit Committee Individual risk management Risk Management Department departments President & CEO Management Meeting Group risk management Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Risk Management Division Risk Management Division Risk Management Division Individual risk management divisions Individual risk management divisions Individual risk management divisions 72 confirming that the amount of risk measured at each of capital adequacy ratio and solvency margin ratio, as these two companies is suitable in relation to each well as respond or make disclosures as necessary, Group company’s equity capital. such as by submitting reports in response to demands Japan Post Holdings Co. also checks the from regulatory authorities. implementation status of stress tests conducted by Operational risk is managed for the business Group companies to ascertain risks that cannot be activities of Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Vision determined through normal risk measurement, and Japan Post Insurance Co. Operational risk management reports this to the Board of Directors and the is monitored on a regular basis to properly supervise Management Meeting. In addition, Japan Post Holdings this risk. In addition, actions are taken to enable Group Co. and Japan Post Group follow internal and external companies to work more closely together to prevent financial regulations that include the Basel Capital the recurrence of problems and strengthen risk Accord to carry out management corresponding to the management. Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Group Risk Management System Managing risk at Japan Post Group companies is for Group risk management and manages those risks recognized as one of management’s highest priorities. autonomously. A department responsible for managing After specifying risks associated with each business risk has been set up in each Group company and a activity, each Group company has established a system for checks and balances has been created management system in accordance with the together with the individual risk management characteristics of each risk based on the basic policy departments. Medium-term Strategy ● Risk Categories and Definitions Risk category Definition Risk category Definition The risk of losses arising due to change in 2) Market risk Same as market risk above Insurance economic conditions or insurance accident underwriting occurrence ratios as opposed to the The risk of losses due to decline in risk projections made at the time when profitability of real estate caused by the 3) R  eal estate insurance premiums were set. changes of rental rates, or due to decrease investment The risk of losses arising from the decline in the value of real estate itself caused by risk or elimination of the value of assets factors such as changes in market Credit risk (including off-balance-sheet assets) due to conditions. deterioration in the financial condition of an (1) F  unding-liquidity risk: The risk of losses entity to which credit is provided. because a company finds it difficult to The risk of loss resulting from changes in secure the necessary funds or is forced the value of assets and liabilities (including to obtain funds at far higher interest Sustainability off-balance-sheet assets and liabilities) due rates or the company must unavoidably to fluctuations in risk factors such as trade at remarkably lower prices than Market risk interest rates, foreign exchange rates and usual under normal conditions because Liquidity risk stock prices and the risk of losses resulting of a worsening financial condition. from changes in earnings generated from (2) Market-liquidity risk: The risk of losses assets and liabilities. There are three arising due to an inability to conduct material market risks as follows: market transactions or the need to conduct transactions at far more The risk of losses resulting from changes in unfavorable prices because of market interest rates. As a result of a mismatch of turmoil. interest rates on its assets and liabilities 1) Interest rate The risk of losses resulting from inadequate and/or timing differences in the maturity risk operation processes, inadequate activities thereof, the company may suffer a loss or a decline in profit due to changes in interest by officers and employees and inadequate Data Compilation rates. Operational systems or from external events. There are risk three categories of operational risk that 2) Price The risk of declines in the value of assets apply to the entire Group: (1) administrative volatility due to changes in the prices of securities risk, (2) IT system risk and (3) information risk and other financial instruments. assets risk. The risk of losses resulting from the The risk of losses resulting from the neglect difference between assumed and actual by officers and employees to conduct 3) Foreign foreign exchange rates in the case where 1) Administrative administrative work properly, accidents exchange the company has a long position or short risk caused by them and violation of laws risk position on a net basis with regard to its conducted by them in the course of the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign administrative work process. currencies. The risk of losses because of a breakdown The risk of losses arising from fluctuations or malfunctioning of computer systems or in the values of assets or liabilities held 2) IT system other computer system inadequacies, or Asset (including off-balance-sheet items). Asset risk because of improper use of computer investment risk investment risk consists of the following systems. credit, market and real estate investment risks. The risk of losses arising from the loss, 3) Information falsification, inappropriate use, or external 1) Credit risk Same as credit risk above assets risk leakage of information due to IT system damage or inappropriate processing. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 73 Sustainability Japan Post Group Compliance Framework Japan Post Group recognizes compliance as one of its highest management priorities and conducts rigorous compliance activities. In particular, as one of our highest management priorities, we are further promoting and managing initiatives for preventing the recurrence of misconduct such as the inappropriate receipt of fees and the abandonment and concealment of mail and for the implementation of anti-corruption measures such as anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism measures. All Group companies build an effective compliance framework giving due consideration to the public characteristics of the business. Japan Post Group Compliance Framework Japan Post Group employs a common compliance A Compliance Department has been set up and framework. Each Group company establishes a placed under the control of a director in charge of Compliance Department to conduct integrated compliance to propose measures to promote management of compliance-related matters. compliance and manage the progress of each measure. In addition, each Group company has a Compliance In order to ensure Group-wide compliance, the Committee that provides advice to its Management Compliance Department of Japan Post Holdings Co. Meeting to review the compliance policy, framework, provides support in accordance with Japan Post Group specific activities and associated issues. The director in Agreements, etc., to Group companies to help them charge of compliance then reports important matters establish their respective compliance frameworks, and discussed by the Compliance Committee to the by doing so, strives to maintain and improve compliance Management Meeting and the Board of Directors. functions for the Group as a whole. ● Japan Post Group Compliance Framework Japan Post Holdings Co. Board of Directors Audit Committee President & CEO Management Meeting Compliance Committee Compliance Department Japan Post Group Agreements, etc. Supporting the development of the Group company compliance framework Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Collaboration Compliance between Japan Post Co. and Compliance Compliance Department outsourcing partners Department Department 74 Group Company Compliance Framework Japan Post Group companies have built a compliance framework as outlined below and use various measures to promote compliance so that the compliance framework can function effectively. 1. Compliance Framework Vision • Line of responsibility for compliance activities • Internal reporting system Each Group company has a Compliance Department In each Group company, the Compliance Department that is independent from departments related to has a compliance hotline that can be used by employees business execution in order to promote compliance and others to prevent compliance violations, including activities throughout the company. This and other corruption such as giving or taking bribes or giving or departments have a compliance officer who is taking inappropriate gifts or entertainment, prevent their Enhancing Corporate Value responsible for executing specific compliance activities. recurrence and resolve them quickly. In addition, a In addition, compliance managers have been appointed compliance hotline has been established at a at all head office departments, regional offices, post designated external law firm. This reporting system offices and branch offices in order to establish a line of makes it possible to quickly deal with compliance reporting for compliance activities. violations and prevent them from spreading while maintaining a structure to resolve issues at the earliest • Response to compliance violations stage. In the event of the discovery of any compliance violations By operating this internal reporting system, we are or facts that raise suspicion of compliance violations at working to protect internal reporters thoroughly and any Group company, including corruption such as giving develop an environment that facilitates internal Medium-term Strategy or taking bribes or giving or taking inappropriate gifts or reporting, such as by prohibiting disadvantageous entertainment, we shall investigate and clarify the handling of internal reporters and accepting anonymous relevant facts and causes of the violations, and implement reports. measures to prevent their recurrence. 2. Promotion of Compliance • Establishment of compliance program • Preparation and distribution of compliance manual Each fiscal year, a compliance program is established A compliance manual is prepared to serve as a practical to provide a plan for specific actions involving guide to promote compliance. The manual explains the compliance. Progress is then checked on a regular compliance framework, matters concerning areas of Sustainability basis. compliance and other subjects. All executives and employees also receive a compliance handbook that • Activities related to compliance items summarizes the manual and is used in training programs At Group companies, specific compliance items have and other activities to raise awareness among been selected, including anti-corruption such as giving executives and employees of the importance of or taking bribes and giving or taking inappropriate gifts compliance. and entertainment, and departments have been assigned to take responsibility for individual compliance • Implementation of compliance-related training items in order to promote compliance in a focused Each Group company conducts a variety of training Data Compilation manner. The Compliance Department oversees the activities for compliance items using group training, compliance promotion activities undertaken by these DVDs, e-learning, etc., in order to promote a better units and conducts integrated management of understanding of legal matters and other areas, and to compliance related issues across the board. raise awareness of compliance. 3. Efforts for anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”) In response to the increasing demands to prevent implementing AML/CFT measures, and based on the money laundering and terrorism financing in recent characteristics of each business, are working on AML/ years, Group companies, as a unified Group, cooperate CFT measures. with each other to establish a framework for JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 75 Sustainability Japan Post Group Internal Audit System Japan Post Group has established an effective internal audit system at each Group company in order to ensure sound administration and proper operations aimed at building customer trust. Japan Post Group Internal Audit System Framework Japan Post Group sets forth the fundamental matters regulations, audit plans and internal audit systems of necessary to create an internal audit system framework and provides guidance and advice to Japan Post Co., in the Group agreements. Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. Based on these agreements, each Group company from the perspective of enhancing the internal audit develops an effective internal audit system framework system framework of the entire Group. befitting the nature of its business and the type and This Internal Audit Department also makes degree of risk. recommendations for improvements and directly The Internal Audit Department of Japan Post undertakes audits when required. Holdings Co. evaluates and examines the audit Internal Audit System at Group Companies 1. Overview Each Group company has an Internal Audit Department the internal management system, such as ascertaining independent from the business-executing departments the state of the execution of management activities and which conducts internal audits from an independent whether mutual supervision is functioning. and objective standpoint. These departments examine 2. Implementation of Effective Internal Audits In implementing internal audits, the Internal Audit operations within the scope of the internal audit. Department undertakes audits in accordance with IIA’s In addition, efforts are made to ensure efficient and (The Institute of Internal Auditors) International effective internal audits through off-site monitoring that Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal includes routinely attending various meetings and Auditing (Standards). This includes conducting riskgathering relevant internally managed materials, as well based internal audits, in which audit frequency and as obtaining insights from audit firms and specialists audit items are determined by evaluating specific types through seminars and other occasions both internally and extent of risks in the branches and departments or and externally to improve the quality of audits. 3. Reporting on Results of Internal Audits and Making Improvements The Internal Audit Department of each Group company Moreover, each Internal Audit Department works to reports on internal audit results to the businessimprove operations at their respective companies. To executing departments as well as to the Board of this end, progress reports of improvement requests Directors, representative director, Audit Committee and indicated in audit reports are periodically made to the Board of Corporate Auditors. representative director. Japan Post Holdings Co. Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Board of Directors, Audit and Report on internal Board of Directors Report on internal Supervisory Board (Japan Post Co.) audit results audit results Audit Committee Board of Directors, Audit Committee (Japan Post Bank Co./Japan Post Insurance Co.) Report on President & CEO Representative director internal audit results Management Meeting Report on Management Meeting (Japan Post Co./ internal Japan Post Bank Co./Japan Post Insurance Co.) audit results Internal Control Meeting (Japan Post Bank Co.) Head office Report on internal audit results Internal Internal Audit Head office departments, Internal Internal Audit departments and audit Department sites, subsidiaries, etc. audit Department associated facilities Evaluation/guidance 76 Sustainability Japan Post Group IT Governance The innovation and spread of information technology is a factor which greatly affects our corporate value, and we recognize it as a major management risk. The Japan Post Group has established a highly effective IT governance system in order to respond appropriately to such an environment. Group IT Governance System Vision In the Japan Post Group Agreement, the Japan Post through the development and execution of an IT Group defines the basic matters for establishing and strategy, streamlining management and using IT, and developing an IT governance system. realize IT governance necessary to maximize corporate Based on this agreement, Group companies value by ensuring the soundness of Group management. minimize risk arising from improving productivity Enhancing Corporate Value Implementing Effective IT Governance Japan Post Group has set up a Japan Post • E xamine policies and measures related to IT governance in Group Information System Review Council with the entire Japan Post Group members including the CIO of each Group • Study the direction, confirm impact, and adjust the company, with the purpose of information sharing development schedule of major IT system development and overall coordination related to IT governance • Status of IT governance activities of the entire Group and in the entire Group. Effective IT governance is four Group companies implemented based mainly on the agenda items • Reporting and sharing information on the operation status Medium-term Strategy and report items on the right. of major IT systems • Other matters deemed necessary by members of the Review Council ● Organizational chart of IT governance in Japan Post Group Japan Post Group IT System Review Council Japan Post Holdings Co. IT System Officers Sustainability Information sharing and overall coordination regarding IT governance in the entire Group Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. IT System Officers IT System Officers IT System Officers IT Strategy to Support Group Management Data Compilation The Japan Post Group has stated the following three IT develop an IT environment where employees can strategies in order to respond to changes in the fully demonstrate their own abilities business environment including customer needs, as — Train IT human resources who are familiar with well as promote business innovation using IT. business and technology, and can support the 1. Promote IT to support new business development for next generation of systems future growth 3. Reinforce our management base in order to support —Respond to the changing needs of society and sustainable growth customers by providing products and services that —Reduce IT costs for the Group by concentrating totally support their lives Group IT infrastructure in stages 2. Promote work style reform and productivity —Strengthen cyber security and provide reliable IT improvement services — Actively adopt the latest technology in order to JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 77 Sustainability Cyber Security Measures In response to the constantly increasing advancement and sophistication of cyber attacks, the Japan Post Group has recognized the threat of cyber attacks as a serious risk, and has developed a system to deal with cyber attacks. We are working to safeguard and manage important information from damage such as information leaks and loss caused by cyber attacks. Group Cyber Security System Under governance of the holding company Japan Post security strategy, and works to track and evaluate the Holdings Co., we have developed a cyber security status of cyber security measures in Group companies. management system for Japan Post Group. In our system, executives in charge of cyber security We have established a Group Cyber Security at Japan Post Holdings Co. oversee Group governance Committee consisting of executives in charge of cyber related to cyber security. They regularly report on the security from the four main Group companies of Japan status of cyber security efforts to management. Post Group. This committee develops Group cyber Group Cyber Security Committee Group Cyber Security Officer (Chairman) Japan Post Holdings Co. Japan Post Co. Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Insurance Co. Officer in charge Officer in charge Officer in charge Officer in charge of cyber security of cyber security of cyber security of cyber security CSIRT CSIRT CSIRT CSIRT Efforts for Cyber Security Measures by Japan Post Holdings Co. Defense in Depth In order to reduce the risk of malware attacks from outside the company and unauthorized transfer of information from inside the company, we have introduced multiple detection and defense mechanisms against unauthorized access and unauthorized programs, and are implementing multi-level countermeasures (defense in depth). The effectiveness of defense is regularly evaluated by a third party. Incident Response System We have developed an incident response system centered on CSIRT, so that when a cyber attack occurs, we can quickly find the cause and minimize the damage, and at the same time report it to management quickly. We are conducting response training for security incidents on a regular basis, and checking whether our incident response system is functioning effectively, while also working to improve the incident response capabilities of CSIRT staff and other employees. Education / Training We conduct cyber security education and training for executives and employees, and are working to improve security awareness among executives and employees. External Collaboration We collaborate with external organizations such as JPCERT/CC, the Nippon CSIRT Association and the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department in order to share attack information and countermeasure trends, and strive to respond quickly to increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks. 78 Sustainability Initiatives for Transportation Safety Basic Approach to Transportation Safety Top management at Japan Post Co. views the improvement of health and safety management,” assurance of health and safety as fundamental to “compliance with laws and company regulations,” business management, so we are working together to “strengthening of measures to ensure health and safety realize a safe environment where employees can work during collection and distribution, sales activities and Vision with peace of mind. other work done at post offices,” and “educating all We have set four basic policies regarding health employees on ensuring health and safety, while and safety, namely “maintenance, reform and evaluating and improving on the results.” Initiatives for Transportation Safety Enhancing Corporate Value Safety education for employees who drive vehicles We are raising hazard awareness by implementing hazard prediction training (SKYT), which teaches drivers to visualize latent hazards by viewing photos of intersections and roads they will use daily prior to departing from post offices. Depending on the vehicle driven, we provide training for staff of two-wheeled vehicles, in which they must drive in a straight line on top of a board with a constant width to enable drivers to gain a sense of balance Medium-term Strategy matching their payloads. For four-wheeled vehicles, we provide training, in which staff must drive between and stop within two lines the width of the vehicle to give staff Daily training a feel for the vehicle. On a regular basis, employee instructors also accompany two-wheeled vehicles from behind or ride along in the passenger seat of four-wheeled vehicles to confirm the state of vehicle driving and provide guidance. Moreover, four-wheeled vehicles are equipped with drive recorders that have accelerometers, and instruction is provided to prevent accidents by Sustainability using data obtained during driving. Safe driving instructors Japan Post Co. stations safe driving instructors who are responsible for teaching safe driving techniques at post offices that conduct delivery and collection work. We hold the “Safe Driving Contest” in which instructors compete in advanced driving skills, knowledge and leadership for two-wheeled and fourData Compilation wheeled vehicles. (63 instructors competed in twowheeled and 65 instructors in four-wheeled vehicle contests for a total of 128 participants in the year ended March 31, 2019.) Safe Driving Contest ● Transportation safety record Goal Number of Serious Accidents: 0 Actual for the year ended March 31, 2017: 5 (4 fatal accidents, 1 vehicle failure) for the year ended March 31, 2018: 2 (1 fatal accident, 1 vehicle failure) for the year ended March 31, 2019: 1 (1 health-caused accident) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 79 Sustainability Dialogue with Stakeholders Japan Post Group’s Stakeholders ●Post office counters, delivery personnel, ●General Meeting of Shareholders offsite sales personnel and call centers ●Briefing sessions for individual investors ●Website, social media, etc. ●Financial results briefings and small ●Customer satisfaction survey meetings ●Integrated Report, CSR Report ●Dialogue with institutional investors and analysts ●Stakeholder dialogue Customers Shareholders ●IR conferences ●Integrated Report, CSR Report ➡ Page 67 Japan Post Group ●Partnerships with local municipal ●Dialogue with employees organizations ●Questionnaire Local Employees communities ●Disaster prevention agreements ●Training ●Community watch activities ●Group internal magazine ●Visiting and experiencing post office work ●Portal website for employees ●Support for nurturing the next generation ●ES survey ●Volunteer activities ●Counseling ➡ Page 51 Main Initiatives: Dialogue with Customer Initiatives to improve customer satisfaction Japan Post Group is working to improve customer satisfaction by enhancing response skills at post offices and sharing information about appreciation or praise received from customers. ● “No.1 in Customer Satisfaction” All-Japan Customer ● Preventing damages from Interaction Contest special fraud Post office helped to prevent damages from bank transfer fraud, which has recently become a major social problem, and received certificates of appreciation for these efforts. 80 Customer-oriented business conduct Japan Post Group formulated The Basic Policies Concerning Customer-Oriented Business Management in working to further promote customer-oriented business management (Japan Post Insurance Co.: April 2017, Japan Post Bank Co.: June 2017, Japan Post Co.: March 2018). Japan Post Group works to conduct a customer-oriented business as it states in Japan Post Group Management Philosophy, “Stressing the security and confidence of Japan Post Group network, the Group, as a private corporation, Vision is demonstrating creativity and efficiency to the greatest extent possible and will provide customer-oriented services, support the lives of customers in local communities and aim for the happiness of customers and employees.” *For details, please refer to the Japan Post Holdings Co. website (https://www.japanpost.jp/corporate/fiduciary.html) (in Japanese). Listening to customers’ feedback ● Initiatives to incorporate customer opinions into management Enhancing Corporate Value Japan Post Group aggregates and Customers analyzes customer feedback and Post offices Call centers Websites Letters makes required improvements with the aim of providing products and Japan Post Co. services that bring customer Aggregation and analysis of customer feedback Japan Post Bank Co. satisfaction. Identification of various proposals and challenges Japan Post Insurance Co. Customer Service Committee, etc. (product and service improvement, business improvement, employee guidance) Reporting & discussion Management Meeting, etc. Medium-term Strategy Reporting Collaboration Improvement & guidance Monitoring Japan Post Holdings Co. Management Meeting, etc. Japan Post Group Customer Satisfaction Survey ● Example of improvements made based on customers’ feedback Company Customers’ feedback Improvements I hope you’ll bring back regional-edition new We issued 19 types of illustrated postcards (regional editions) with Japan Post Co. year’s postcards that I looked forward to every donations, which bear the drawings of official regional mascot characters, year. as regional limited-edition postcards. (November 1, 2018 ～) I’d like to see you extend the hours for using We extended the hours of Japan Post Bank ATMs for making deposits. The Japan Post Bank Co. Japan Post Bank Co.’s ATMs. hours ATMs can be used for deposits and withdrawals are now the same. Sustainability I’m elderly so I’d like details to also go to other We newly introduced the “Family Registration System”. For registered Japan Post family members. families, we enabled the disclosure of policy details to the same degree Insurance Co. as for the policyholder and thereby enhanced the ease of maintaining and monitoring policies by families. (April 2018 ～) Japan Post Group customer satisfaction survey Japan Post Holdings Co. conducts a survey on customer satisfaction levels and intentions of use at post offices in order to accurately ascertain customer opinions on products and services and respond to new needs. Japan Post Group will continue to regularly conduct surveys as a means of further improving customer satisfaction Data Compilation and the results of analysis of issues and other aspects learned through these surveys will be actively reflected in management operations. ● Overall Group satisfaction How satisfied are you with post offices overall*? * “Overall” refers to counter operations and telephone support, quantity and types of products and services handled by post offices, business days and hours, and facilities. (Satisfied: 79.5% Dissatisfied: 4.4%) Dissatisfied: 1.3% Extremely satisfied: 5.3% Moderately dissatisfied: 2.6% Satisfied: 36.5% Moderately satisfied: 37.7% Neutral: 16.1% Extremely dissatisfied: 0.5% For survey results regarding various Group services, please refer to https://www.japanpost.jp/group/pdf/cs2018.pdf (in Japanese). JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 81 82 Data Compilation INDEX 1. Outline of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 6. Japan Post Group Companies —Consolidated Financial Data 1. Company Outline............................................................ 84 Vision 2. Information on Shares................................................... 84 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS............................. 100 3. Number of Employees.................................................. 84 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS....... 102 4. List of Directors, Executive Officers and CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF Management Committees........................................... 85 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME............................................. 102 5. Organization Chart......................................................... 86 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS........................................................................... 103 6. P  rincipal Subsidiaries and Affiliates of Japan Enhancing Corporate Value Post Holdings Co............................................................. 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS....... 106 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 2. Outline of Japan Post Co., Ltd. STATEMENTS......................................................................... 108 Capital Adequacy................................................................ 143 1. Company Outline............................................................ 89 Qualitative Disclosure........................................................ 145 2. Management Philosophy............................................. 89 Compensation, etc., Subject to Disclosure................ 160 3. Information on Shares................................................... 89 Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio 4. Number of Employees................................................... 89 (Japan Post Group).............................................................. 162 5. List of Directors, Auditors and Executive Officers..... 90 Non-consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Japan Post Insurance Co.)............................................... 163 6. Organization Chart.......................................................... 91 Medium-term Strategy 7. Japan Post Group Privacy Policy 3. Outline of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. 1. Japan Post Group Privacy Policy................................ 164 1. Company Outline............................................................ 92 2. S  haring of Personal Data among Japan Post 2. Management Philosophy............................................. 92 Group Companies.......................................................... 165 3. Information on Shares................................................... 92 4. Number of Employees................................................... 92 8. Japan Post Group’s Approach to Procurement Activity 5. L ist of Directors, Executive Officers and Management Committees............................................ 93 Japan Post Group’s Approach to Procurement Activity..................................................................................... 165 6. Organization Chart.......................................................... 94 9. Japan Post Group Conflicts of Interest Management Policy 4. Outline of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Japan Post Group Conflicts of Interest Sustainability 1. Company Outline............................................................ 95 Management Policy............................................................ 166 2. Management Philosophy and Management Policy... 95 10. Japan Post Group Information Security Declaration 3. Information on Stocks................................................... 95 4. Number of Employees................................................... 95 Japan Post Group Information Security 5. L ist of Directors, Executive Officers and Declaration............................................................................. 166 Management Committees............................................ 96 6. Organization Chart.......................................................... 97 11. D  eclaration by Top Management regarding the Elimination of Relationships with Antisocial Forces 5. Transition of Significant Management Indicators, etc. Declaration by Top Management regarding the Data Compilation Elimination of Relationships with Antisocial Forces.... 167 Japan Post Group (Consolidated).................................. 98 Japan Post Holdings Co. (Non-consolidated)........... 98 12. Disclosure Policy Japan Post Co. (Consolidated)........................................ 98 Postal and domestic logistics business segment Disclosure Policy.................................................................. 167 (Consolidated).................................................................. 99 Post office business segment (Consolidated)..... 99 International logistics business segment (Consolidated).................................................................. 99 Japan Post Bank Co. (Consolidated)............................ 99 Japan Post Insurance Co. (Consolidated)................... 99 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 83 Data Compilation 1. Outline of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. ❶ Company Outline Company name (in Japanese): Nippon Yusei Kabushiki Kaisha Company name: JAPAN POST HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. Head office location: 3-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8791, Japan Telephone: 03-3477-0111 (Japan Post Group main number) Paid-in capital: ¥3,500 billion Date of establishment: January 23, 2006 Legal basis: Established under the Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. Act (Law No. 98 of October 21, 2005) Lines of business: Strategy formulation of Group management ❷ Information on Shares (As of March 31, 2019) 1. Number of Shares Total number of authorized shares 18,000,000,000 Total number of issued shares 4,500,000,000 Total number of shareholders 623,985 2. Major Shareholders Capital contribution to the company Number of shares held Shareholding ratio Minister of Finance 2,559,524,700 63.29％ The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 93,685,200 2.31％ Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 65,445,700 1.61％ Japan Post Holdings Employee Shareholding Association 60,379,100 1.49％ STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT TREATY 505234 33,702,449 0.83％ Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 30,736,700 0.76％ Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 27,873,000 0.68％ JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 26,023,166 0.64％ STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505103 21,216,261 0.52％ Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 20,427,400 0.50％ Note 1: Japan Post Holdings Co. holds 456,139,201 shares of treasury stock, which are not included in the above list of major shareholders. Note 2: The shareholding ratio is calculated by deducting treasury stock from the total number of issued shares. 3. Matters Concerning Stock Acquisition Rights None. ❸ Number of Employees 2,106 (as of March 31, 2019) * The number of employees excludes employees assigned to other companies by Japan Post Holdings Co. but includes employees assigned to Japan Post Holdings Co. by other companies. The figures do not include part-time employees (including the indefinite-term employees (associates) based on the indefinite-term employment conversion system). 84 ❹ List of Directors, Executive Officers and Management Committees (As of July 5, 2019) 1. Directors President & CEO (Representative Executive Officer).......... Masatsugu Nagato ............................................................................................................... (Concurrently holds the positions of Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd., Director of Japan Post Bank Co., Vision Ltd., and Director of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd.) Senior Executive Vice President (Representative Executive Officer).... Yasuo Suzuki (Concurrently holds the position of Director of Japan Post Co., Ltd.) Director............................................................................................... Norito Ikeda (Concurrently holds the position of Director, President and Representative Executive Officer of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd.) Director............................................................................................... Kunio Yokoyama ............................................................................................................................. (Concurrently holds the position of President & CEO (Representative Executive Officer) of Japan Post Co., Ltd.) Director............................................................................................... Mitsuhiko Uehira (Concurrently holds the position of Director and President, CEO Representative Executive Officer of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd.) Director............................................................................................... Riki Mukai Enhancing Corporate Value Director (Outside)........................................................................... Akio Mimura (Concurrently holds the position of Honorary Company Fellow and Honorary Chairman of NIPPON STEEL CORPORATION) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Tadashi Yagi (Concurrently holds the position of Advisor to K. K. Kyodo News) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Kunio Ishihara (Concurrently holds the position of Senior Advisor to the Board of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Charles Ditmars Lake II (Concurrently holds the position of Chairman and Representative Director of Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd.) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Michiko Hirono Director (Outside)........................................................................... Tsuyoshi Okamoto (Concurrently holds the position of Senior Corporate Advisor to Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Miharu Koezuka (Concurrently holds the position of Advisor to Takashimaya Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Takayuki Aonuma (Attorney at Low) Director (Outside)........................................................................... Sakie Akiyama (Concurrently holds the position of Founder (Advisor) of Saki Corporation) Medium-term Strategy 2. Executive Officers (Excludes persons with concurrent posts in the above 1. Directors) Executive Vice President (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer Chikashi Isayama Toshihide Komatsu Managing Executive Officer Kazuyuki Negishi Executive Vice President (Representative Executive Officer) Yoshifumi Iwasaki Managing Executive Officer Susumu Tanaka Senior Managing Executive Officer Kunio Tanigaki Managing Executive Officer Nobuyasu Kato Senior Managing Executive Officer Noboru Ichikura Executive Officer Makoto Sakurai Senior Managing Executive Officer Kazuhide Kinugawa Executive Officer Tsutomu Shomura Senior Managing Executive Officer Atsuhiko Ikeda Executive Officer Mamiko Izumi Senior Managing Executive Officer Toru Inasawa Executive Officer Noriko Kinoshita Executive Officer Toshitaka Shima Sustainability Managing Executive Officer Kenji Fukumoto Managing Executive Officer Kimihiko Oku Executive Officer Kozo Otaka Managing Executive Officer Yoshiharu Miyazaki Executive Officer Nobuo Tsuruda Managing Executive Officer Hiroaki Kawamoto Executive Officer Makoto Kazamatsuri Managing Executive Officer Kenji Ogata Executive Officer Kenji Meguro Managing Executive Officer Hiroyuki Furusato Executive Officer Tomonori Asai Managing Executive Officer Kenichi Kozuka Executive Officer Hitoshi Arawaka 3. Nomination Committee 4. Audit Committee 5. Compensation Committee Data Compilation Chairperson Akio Mimura Chairperson Tadashi Yagi Chairperson Tsuyoshi Okamoto Member Kunio Ishihara Member Miharu Koezuka Member Tadashi Yagi Member Masatsugu Nagato Member Takayuki Aonuma Member Masatsugu Nagato Member Sakie Akiyama Member Riki Mukai JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 85 ❺ Organization Chart (As of April 1, 2019) Internal Audit Division Internal Audit Department Compliance Division Compliance Department Research Compliance Office Liaison Office Corporate Planning Division Corporate Planning Department Group Business Strategy Office Shareholders’ Meeting ESG Office IR Office Board of Directors Risk Management Department Nomination Committee Consumer Satisfaction Office of Audit Promotion Department Audit Committee Committee Legal Affairs Department Compensation Committee Public Relations Department Office of Compiling JP Group History President & CEO Olympics & Paralympics Office Accounting & Finance Division Accounting & Finance Department Secretaries Office Office of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management Meeting IFRS Office General Affairs & Human General Affairs Department Resources Division Special Committees Procurement Office Compliance Committee Crisis Management Office CSR Committee Shared Services Human Resources Department Management Center Information Disclosure Committee Postal College Health & Welfare Office Investment Committee IT Systems Division Group IT Management Department Information Security Office System Management Office Group Cyber Security Office Group Real Estate Real Estate Division Management Department Facility Management Facility Management Department Centers (7) Hospitals & Hotels Hospitals Management Japan Post Management Division Department Teishin Hospitals (3) Hotels Management Department Hotels (53) 86 ❻ Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates of Japan Post Holdings Co. (As of March 31, 2019) Percentage Issued capital Date of Affiliation Company name Location Main business ownership of (millions) establishment voting rights Chiyoda-ku, Postal and domestic logistics Vision JAPAN POST Co., Ltd. ¥400,000 October 1, 2007 100.0% Tokyo business, post office business Postal and domestic logistics Japan Post Transport Co., Minato-ku, 100.0% ¥18,250 business (truck cargo transporNovember 30, 2007 Ltd. Tokyo (100.0%) tation) Postal and domestic logistics business (automobile mainteJAPAN POST MAINTEnance and machinery mainte100.0% Koto-ku, Tokyo ¥50 March 31, 1991 NANCE Co., Ltd. nance business, product sales (100.0%) business, vehicle maintenance Enhancing Corporate Value and management business) JAPAN POST SANKYU Postal and domestic logistics 60.0% GLOBAL LOGISTICS CO., Chuo-ku, Tokyo ¥300 business (international air July 1, 2008 (60.0%) LTD. freight forwarding) Postal and domestic logistics Adachi-ku, 58.5% JP Biz Mail Co., Ltd. ¥100 business (preparation and February 1, 2006 Tokyo (58.5%) posting of postal items) Postal and domestic logistics business (planning, developMinato-ku, 51.0% JP Media Direct Co., Ltd. ¥300 ment and sales of direct mail February 29, 2008 Tokyo (51.0%) and contracted shipment of merchandise) Postal and domestic logistics Meguro-ku, 79.8% Tokyo Beiyu Co., Ltd. ¥22 business (petroleum sales March 10, 1949 Tokyo (79.8%) business) Post office business (merchanMedium-term Strategy Japan Post Trading dise business, contracting 100.0% Koto-ku, Tokyo ¥100 September 11, 2007 Service Co., Ltd. business for merchandise (100.0%) operations) Post office business (property Japan Post Building Chiyoda-ku, 100.0% ¥150 management for commercial April 1, 2011 Management Co., Ltd. Tokyo (100.0%) buildings) Post office business (operations Japan Post CommunicaMinato-ku, 100.0% ¥350 related to posting advertiseAugust 8, 2014 tions Co., Ltd. Tokyo (100.0%) ments in post offices) Consolidated Post office business (merchanJAPAN POST OFFICE Minato-ku, 100.0% subsidiaries ¥100 dise sales, facilities manageMarch 16, 1971 SUPPORT Co., Ltd. Tokyo (100.0%) ment and contracting business) Post office business (non-life JP GENERAL INSURANCE Chiyoda-ku, 70.0% ¥20 insurance and automobile liabilAugust 7, 1950 AGENCY Co., Ltd. Tokyo (70.0%) ity insurance agency business) JP MITSUKOSHI MERPost office business (mail-order 60.0% Sustainability Koto-ku, Tokyo ¥50 April 1, 2014 CHANDISING Co., Ltd. business, wholesale, others) (60.0%) Post office business (sales of Nishi-ku, catalog products, mail-order 51.0% YY Gift Co., Ltd. Yokohama-shi, ¥20 April 23, 1996 business, agency business for (51.0%) Kanagawa sales of alcohol) Post office business (sales of JP TOKYO TOKUSENKAI 51.0% Taito-ku, Tokyo ¥30 catalog products, mail-order March 2, 2015 Co., Ltd. (51.0%) business) International logistics business Melbourne, 100.0% Toll Holdings Limited AUD2,978 (forwarding business, 3PL June 20, 1986 Australia (100.0%) business, express business) International logistics business JP TOLL LOGISTICS, Co., Chiyoda-ku, 100.0% ¥100 (Forwarding business, 3PL September 16, 2009 Ltd. Tokyo (100.0%) Data Compilation business) TOLL EXPRESS JAPAN Ibaraki-shi, International logistics business 100.0% ¥10 January 29, 2002 CO., LTD. Osaka (express business) (100.0%) JAPAN POST BANK Co., Chiyoda-ku, ¥3,500,000 Banking business September 1, 2006 89.0% Ltd. Tokyo Banking business (securities 75.0% Japan Post Investment Chiyoda-ku, ¥750 investment management February 9, 2018 (75.0%) Corporation Tokyo business) [25.0%] JAPAN POST INSURANCE Chiyoda-ku, ¥500,000 Life insurance business September 1, 2006 89.0% Co., Ltd. Tokyo Life insurance businesses JAPAN POST INSURANCE Shinagawa-ku, (commissioning of design, 100.0% SYSTEM SOLUTIONS Co., ¥500 March 8, 1985 Tokyo development, maintenance and (100.0%) Ltd. operation of information systems) Other businesses (temporary JAPAN POST STAFF Co., Minato-ku, ¥640 staffing service, contracted July 3, 2007 100.0% Ltd. Tokyo business) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 87 Percentage Issued capital Date of Affiliation Company name Location Main business ownership of (millions) establishment voting rights YUSEI CHALLENGED CO., Setagaya-ku, Other businesses (office ¥5 November 20, 2007 100.0% Ltd. Tokyo cleaning) Chuo-ku, Japan Post Hotel Service Other businesses (contracted Saitama-shi, ¥39 December 25, 1996 100.0% Co., Ltd. hotel management) Saitama Other businesses (communicaJapan Post Information Shinjuku-ku, ¥3,150 tion network maintenance and January 30, 1987 100.0% Technology Co., Ltd. Tokyo management) Other businesses (investment Japan Post Capital Co., Chiyoda-ku, ¥1,500 business, consulting business for November 1, 2017 100.0% Ltd. Tokyo management and financial matters) Consolidated Other businesses (ownership, subsidiaries leasing and management Japan Post Real Estate Chiyoda-ku, business of real estate, ¥1,500 April 2, 2018 100.0% Co., Ltd. Tokyo development business of residential and commercial land, etc.) Other businesses (consulting, System Trust Laboratory Shinagawa-ku, planning and development 100.0% ¥99 August 1, 1989 Co., Ltd. Tokyo business for business systems (100.0%) and basic technologies) JP TWOWAY CONTACT Nishi-ku, OsakaOther businesses (telemarketing 82.9% ¥182 April 18, 1988 Co., Ltd. shi, Osaka services) (82.9%) and 235 other companies Post office business (type II SAISON ASSET MANAGEToshima-ku, financial instruments business 40.0% ¥1,000 June 12, 2006 MENT Co., Ltd. Tokyo operation and investment trust (40.0%) management business, others) Post office business (processing 20.0% JA FOODS OITA CO., LTD. Kitsuki-shi, Oita ¥493 and sales of agricultural December 2, 1991 (20.0%) products, fruits and vegetables) Post office business (planning, Affiliated 20.0% RINGBELL Co., Ltd. Chuo-ku, Tokyo ¥354 production and sales of gift July 3, 1987 companies (20.0%) catalogs, others) accounted for under the Banking business (type II equity JP Asset Management financial instruments business 50.0% Chuo-ku, Tokyo ¥500 August 18, 2015 method Co., Ltd. operation and investment (50.0%) management business) Banking business (bank agency 45.0% SDP Center Co., Ltd. Chuo-ku, Tokyo ¥2,000 May 28, 1980 operations) (45.0%) Banking business (ATM cash ATM Japan Business Minato-ku, 35.0% ¥100 loading and collection as well as August 30, 2012 Service, Ltd. Tokyo (35.0%) ATM management) and 16 other companies Note 1: In the Main business column, besides the segment names, a summary of the businesses carried out by the concerned companies is included within the parentheses. Note 2: Among the affiliated companies listed above, Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. correspond to specified subsidiary. Note 3: Among the affiliated companies listed above, Japan Post Bank Co., and Japan Post Insurance Co. submit securities reports. Note 4: The figures in parentheses in the column showing percentage ownership of voting rights indicate the percentage of indirect ownership (within parentheses) through subsidiaries. The figures in brackets indicate “Those parties deemed to exercise voting rights for the same details as their own intentions because of the close relationships between themselves and investments, personnel, capital, technologies, business transactions, etc.” or “Those parties that agree to exercise voting rights for the same details as their own intentions” (outside the parentheses). Note 5: In April 2019, the Company executed a second sale of common shares of Japan Post Insurance Co. As a result of this sale and the acquisition of treasury stock by Japan Post Insurance Co., the Company’s percentage ownership of voting rights in Japan Post Insurance Co. became approximately 64%. Note 6: Among the affiliated companies listed above, the ordinary income (excluding intercompany ordinary income of consolidated companies) of Japan Post Co., Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. exceeded 10% of consolidated ordinary income. Information on principal profits and losses of Japan Post Co. is detailed below. Information on Japan Post Bank Co. and Japan Post Insurance Co. is omitted because these companies submit securities reports. Principal information on profits and losses (Millions of yen) Name Operating income Ordinary income Net income Net assets Total assets Japan Post Co. ¥ 3,119,646 ¥ 177,105 ¥ 133,581 ¥ 706,102 ¥ 4,695,990 88 Data Compilation 2. Outline of Japan Post Co., Ltd. ❶ Company Outline Company name (in Japanese): Nippon Yubin Kabushiki Kaisha Company name: JAPAN POST Co., Ltd. Head office location: 3-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8792, Japan Telephone: 03-3477-0111 (Japan Post Group main number) Paid-in capital: ¥400 billion Vision Date of establishment: October 1, 2007 Legal basis: Established under the Japan Post Co., Ltd. Act (Law No. 100 of October 21, 2005) Lines of business: Postal operations; banking counter operations; insurance counter operations; sales of documentary stamps; operations consigned by local government entities; bank and life and non-life insurance agency services other than those mentioned previously; domestic distribution and delivery business and international cargo transport and agency services for air cargo business; Enhancing Corporate Value logistics business; real estate business; and merchandise sales ❷ Management Philosophy Management Philosophy “Japan Post Co., Ltd. will fully utilize its resources that include its post office and delivery networks covering every corner of the country to provide safe, reliable and fast services tailored to the needs of each community while contributing to the realization of a society with an abundance of human contact by supporting people’s lifestyles throughout their entire lives.” Medium-term Strategy • We will provide the basic postal services of postal, banking and insurance services extensively across the country into the future. • We will take on the challenge of providing innovative services that respond accurately to changes in society and enrich people’s lives. • We will fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen by establishing corporate governance systems and strictly implementing compliance. • Each and every employee will continue to grow to ensure we are appreciated by our customers and trusted and respected by local communities. ❸ Information on Shares (As of March 31, 2019) 1. Number of Shares Total shares issued 10,000,000 2. Shareholder Sustainability Condition of holdings Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. Shares owned Percentage of total issued 10,000,000 100% Data Compilation ❹ Number of Employees 192,889* (as of March 31, 2019) * The number of employees excludes employees assigned to other companies by Japan Post Co. but includes employees assigned to Japan Post Co. by other companies. The figures do not include part-time employees (including the indefinite-term employees (associates) based on the indefinite-term employment conversion system). JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 89 ❺ List of Directors, Auditors and Executive Officers (As of July 1, 2019) 1. Directors Chairman...................................................................................................... Toru Takahashi President & CEO (Representative Executive Officer).................... Kunio Yokoyama (Concurrently holds the position of Director of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Senior Executive Vice President (Representative Director)........ Tomohiro Yonezawa Executive Vice President (Director).................................................... Chikashi Isayama (Concurrently holds the position of Managing Executive Officer of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director......................................................................................................... Yasuo Suzuki (Concurrently holds the position of Representative Director and Senior Executive Vice President of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director......................................................................................................... Masatsugu Nagato (Concurrently holds the position of Representative Executive Officer and President & CEO of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Risa Tanaka (C  oncurrently holds the position of President of The Graduate School of Project Design and Director of Media and Information of Sendenkaigi Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Kaori Sasaki (Concurrently holds the position of President and CEO of ewoman, Inc.) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Yoshikuni Sugiyama (C  oncurrently holds the position of Representative Director and President of Yomiuri Land Co., Ltd.) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Takako Suwa (C  oncurrently holds the position of Representative Director of Daiya Seiki Co, Ltd.) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Toyohiko Takabe (F ormerly held the position of Representative Director and President of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation) Director (Outside)..................................................................................... Akira Nokina (C  oncurrently holds the position of Representative Director and Chairman of North Pacific Securities Co., Ltd.) 2. Audit and Supervisory Board Members Mitsuyuki Yamamoto Toshiyuki Takano Hiroshi Shidehara Masayasu Oguro 3. Executive Officers Vice President Makoto Osawa Executive Officer Hitoshi Arawaka (Concurrently holds the position of Executive Officer of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) First Executive Officer Taneki Ono Executive Officer Masahiko Metoki First Executive Officer Yoshinori Suzuki Executive Officer Atsushi Fuchie First Executive Officer Yoshiyuki Higuchi Executive Officer Kanako Asami Senior Executive Officer Satoru Tatebayashi Executive Officer Koji Kamiozaki Senior Executive Officer Norio Wakasa Executive Officer Katsuyo Yamazaki Senior Executive Officer Yoshiharu Miyazaki (Concurrently holds the position of Managing Executive Officer of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Executive Officer Akihito Nishiguchi Senior Executive Officer Satoshi Higashikozono Executive Officer Hiroaki Yasuda Senior Executive Officer Kimikazu Sano Executive Officer Yasuhiro Takahashi Senior Executive Officer Michio Kaneko Executive Officer Atsushi Hasegawa Senior Executive Officer Kazuyuki Negishi Executive Officer Shinya Koike (Concurrently holds the position of Managing Executive Officer of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Executive Officer Masato Ogawa Senior Executive Officer Masaaki Yamazaki Executive Officer Shinji Denishi Executive Officer Katsunori Nakai Executive Officer Tsukasa Namiki Executive Officer Takayuki Urase Executive Officer Akihiko Isohata 90 ❻ Organization Chart (As of April 1, 2019) Vision Auditors Division Inspection Office Regional Auditors Offices (50) General Meeting of Shareholders Compliance Division Compliance Guidance Office Audit and Supervisory Board Compliance Investigation Office Audit and Supervisory Board Office Information Management Office Board of Directors Compliance Offices (13) Enhancing Corporate Value Chairman Corporate Planning Division Business Management Office President and CEO Operation Reform Division Liaison Office Management Committee Public Relations Office General Affairs Division Risk Management Office Personnel Safety Promotion Office Social Responsibility and Customer Customer Service Centers (2) Service Promotion Office Legal Division Special Committees Personnel Affairs Division Human Resource Development Office Training Institutes (8) Compliance Committee Diversity Promotion Office Risk Management Committee Employee Compensation and Welfare Center (1) Medium-term Strategy Customer Satisfaction (CS) Committee Channel Planning Division Contracted Post Office Planning Office CSR Committee Administration Office Procurement Committee Accounting and Finance Division Credit Management Center (1) Procurement Division Payment Center (1) Systems Planning Division Systems Development Office 1 Systems Development Office 2 Systems Operation Office Business Development and Promotion Office Digital Business Strategy Division Integrated Lifestyle Support Business Division Sustainability Postal Business Planning Division Postage Stamps and Postcards Office Postal Items Verification Center (1) Postal Marketing and Sales Division Postal Business Corporate Sales Office Yu-Pack Accounting Center (1) Postal Operations Division Collection and Delivery Planning Office Logistics Centers (4) Sorting and Transportation Division Personnel Planning Office Tokyo Logistics Center (1) Facilities and Automation Office International Quality Control International Business Division and Accounting Center (1) Reform Promotion Division Regional Revitalization Office Data Compilation Financial Marketing and Sales Division Insurance Solicitation Financial Operations Division Management and Control Office Product Sales Division Funds Management Centers (2) Real Estate Division Tenant Sales Office Property Management Office International Logistics Strategy Office Post Offices Regional Offices (13) (20,153 (Note)) Contracted Post Offices (4,214 (Note)) Note: The number of directly managed post offices and contracted post offices is as of March 31, 2019. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 91 Data Compilation 3. Outline of Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. ❶ Company Outline Company name (in Japanese): Kabushiki Kaisha Yucho Ginko Company name: JAPAN POST BANK Co., Ltd. Head office location: 3-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8793, Japan Telephone: 03-3477-0111 (Japan Post Group main number) Paid-in capital: ¥3,500 billion Date of establishment: September 1, 2006 (On October 1, 2007, the name was changed from Yucho Co., Ltd. to Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd.) Line of business: Banking Financial institution code number: 9900 ❷ Management Philosophy Management Philosophy Japan Post Bank Co. aims to become “the most accessible and trustworthy bank in Japan,” guided by the needs and expectations of our customers. Trust: We comply with laws, regulations, and other standards of behavior and value trusted relationships with customers, markets, shareholders, and employees and consistently serve as a responsible corporate citizen. Innovation: We work sincerely to improve our management and business operations in response to requests from customers and changes in the business environment. Efficiency: We pursue improvements in speed and efficiency of our management and business operations in order to provide customer-oriented financial instruments and services. Expertise: We continually strive to strengthen our expertise for the aim of services meeting the expectations of our customers. ❸ Information on Shares (As of March 31, 2019) 1. Number of Shares Total shares issued 4,500,000,000 2. Major Shareholders Shares owned (thousand) Shareholding ratio (%) 1 Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 3,337,032 88.99 2 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 28,077 0.74 3 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 22,968 0.61 4 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 10,968 0.29 5 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT TREATY 505234 10,084 0.26 6 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 8,250 0.22 7 Japan Post Bank Employee Shareholding Association 8,102 0.21 8 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 7,258 0.19 9 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 2) 6,790 0.18 10 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 6,495 0.17 Note 1: Japan Post Bank Co. holds 750,524 thousand shares of treasury stock (16.67% of total issued), which are not included in the above list of major shareholders. Treasury stock does not include shares of Japan Post Bank Co. owned by the stock benefit trust (683 thousand shares). Note 2: The shareholding ratio has been calculated excluding treasury stock (750,524 thousand shares) and rounded down to the second decimal place. ❹ Number of Employees 12,800* (as of March 31, 2019) * The number of employees excludes employees assigned to other companies by Japan Post Bank Co. but includes employees assigned to Japan Post Bank Co. by other companies. The figures do not include part-time employees (including the indefinite-term employees (associates) based on the indefinite-term employment conversion system). 92 ❺ List of Directors, Executive Officers and Management Committees (As of July 1, 2019) 1. Directors President and Representative Executive Officer.....................Norito Ikeda (Concurrently holds the position of Director of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Representative Executive Vice President..................................Susumu Tanaka Vision (Concurrently holds the position of Managing Executive Officer of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director.................................................................................................Masatsugu Nagato (Concurrently holds the position of Director and Representative Executive Officer and President & CEO of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director.................................................................................................Ryoichi Nakazato Outside Director................................................................................Tomoyoshi Arita (Attorney-at-Law) Outside Director................................................................................Sawako Nohara Enhancing Corporate Value (Concurrently holds the position of President and CEO of IPSe Marketing, Inc.) Outside Director................................................................................Tetsu Machida (Independent Economic Journalist) Outside Director................................................................................Nobuko Akashi (Concurrently holds the position of Board chairman of a non-profit organization, Japan Manners & Protocol Association) Outside Director................................................................................Katsuaki Ikeda (Formerly held the position of Corporate Auditor of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc.) Outside Director................................................................................Ryoji Chubachi (Concurrently holds the position of President of National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology) Outside Director................................................................................Keisuke Takeuchi (Formerly held the position of Principal Corporate Advisor of JGC Corporation) Outside Director................................................................................Makoto Kaiwa (Concurrently holds the position of Representative Director & Chairman of the Board of Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc.) Medium-term Strategy Outside Director................................................................................Risa Aihara (Concurrently holds the position of Representative Director and President of Ai-LAND Co., Ltd.) 2. Executive Officers (Excludes persons with concurrent posts in the above 1. Directors) Executive Vice President Yoshinori Hagino Executive Officer Yoko Makino Executive Vice President Kunio Tahara Executive Officer Kunihiko Amaha Senior Managing Executive Officer Masahiro Murashima Executive Officer Makoto Shinmura Senior Managing Executive Officer Hiroichi Shishimi Executive Officer Satoru Ogata Senior Managing Executive Officer Harumi Yano Executive Officer Toshiharu Ono Sustainability Managing Executive Officer Masahiro Nishimori Executive Officer Shigeyuki Sakurai Managing Executive Officer Atsuko Onodera Executive Officer Shinobu Nagura Managing Executive Officer Masato Tamaki Executive Officer Nobuhiro Fukuoka Managing Executive Officer Minoru Kotouda Executive Officer Ryotaro Yamada Managing Executive Officer Toshiyuki Yazaki Executive Officer Haruchika Tsukioka Managing Executive Officer Takayuki Tanaka Executive Officer Hideki Nakao Executive Officer Etsuko Kishi 3. Nomination Committee 5. Compensation Committee Data Compilation Chairman Masatsugu Nagato Chairman Ryoji Chubachi Member Tomoyoshi Arita Member Masatsugu Nagato Member Ryoji Chubachi Member Katsuaki Ikeda Member Makoto Kaiwa Member Keisuke Takeuchi 4. Audit Committee Chairman Tomoyoshi Arita Member Ryoichi Nakazato Member Sawako Nohara Member Tetsu Machida Member Katsuaki Ikeda JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 93 ❻ Organization Chart (As of July 1, 2019) Internal Audit Internal Audit Division Planning Department General Meeting of Shareholders Compliance Management Compliance Division Department Anti Money Laundering Department Board of Directors Corporate Administration Corporate Division Planning Department Nomination Committee ALM Planning Department Audit Committee Research Department Audit Committee Office Financial Accounting Department Compensation Committee Investor Relations Department Public Relations Department President and Representative Customer Satisfaction Executive Officer Department Human Resources Department Executive Committee Internal Control Committee Diversity and Inclusion Department Legal Affairs Department Special Committees IT Strategy Department Compliance Committee General Affairs Department Risk Management Risk Management Division Risk Management Department Committee Credit Department ALM Committee Operation Division Operation Support Centers (11) Operation Management Seal Card Management Center (1) CSR Committee Department Operation Planning Department Information Disclosure Committee Operation Support Department System Division Data Centers (2) System Management Department System Development Department 1 System Development Department 2 System Service Department Investment Division CIO Office Global Fund Investment Department Global Credit Investment Department Rates and FX Investment Department Equity Investment Department Private Equity Investment Department Real Estate Investment Department Treasury Department Treasury Administration Department Marketing Division Credit Card Collection Service Center (1) ATM Management Centers (2) Marketing Department Marketing Department 1 Marketing Department 2 Investment Trust Business Department Regional Headquarters (13) Corporate Sales Department Branches (234) Financial Institutions Department ATM Business Department Marketing Department 3 Marketing Administration Department Administration Service Centers (50) Loan Marketing Department 94 Data Compilation 4. Outline of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. ❶ Company Outline Company name (in Japanese): Kabushiki Kaisha Kanpo Seimei Hoken Company name: JAPAN POST INSURANCE Co., Ltd. Head office location: 3-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8794, Japan Telephone: 03-3477-0111 (Japan Post Group main number) Paid-in capital: ¥500 billion Vision Date of establishment: September 1, 2006 (The name of the company was changed from Kampo Co., Ltd. to Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd., on October 1, 2007.) Line of business: Life insurance Enhancing Corporate Value ❷ Management Philosophy and Management Policy Management Philosophy Be a trustful partner for people, always being close at hand and endeavoring to protect their well-being. Management Policy We aim to become the No.1 Japanese insurance company selected by customers. 1. We are always close to people’s lives, offering easy-to-understand products and high-quality services. 2. We always ensure that employees who have contact with our customers make full use of their strengths to offer better customer services. 3. We create a working environment in which all employees can develop their talents and work with energy and vitality. Medium-term Strategy 4. We practice sound management based on strong corporate governance, constantly creating new value to achieve sustainable growth. 5.  We actively contribute to health promotion, environmental protection, and the development of local communities and society as a whole. 6. We work to communicate closely with all stakeholders. ❸ Information on Stocks (as of March 31, 2019) 1. Number of Stocks Issued stocks 600,000,000 Note: T  he total number of issued stocks decreased by 37,400,000 shares due to the cancellation of shares on May 31, 2019, pursuant to a resolution at a meeting Sustainability of the Board of Directors held on May 15, 2019. 2. Major Shareholders Investments in Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Number of shares held Percentage of shares held Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 534,000,000 89.00% THE BANK OF NEW YORK JASDECNON TREATY ACCOUNT 4,483,478 0.75% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 3,585,700 0.60% The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 3,579,200 0.60% Japan Post Insurance Employee Shareholding Association 2,252,000 0.38% Data Compilation Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 1,787,200 0.30% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 1,460,900 0.24% JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 993,780 0.17% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 970,000 0.16% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 2) 913,100 0.15% Note 1: Percentage of shares held is rounded to two decimal places. Note 2: T  he ratio of the shares held by Japan Post Holdings Co. to the total number of issued stocks (excluding treasury stock) of Japan Post Insurance Co. declined from the previous 89% to around 64% due to the secondary offering of stocks and the acquisition of treasury stock (April 2019). ❹ Number of Employees 7,617* (as of March 31, 2019) * The number of employees excludes employees assigned to other companies by Japan Post Insurance Co. but includes employees assigned to Japan Post Insurance Co. by other companies. The figures do not include part-time employees (including the indefinite-term employees (associates) based on the indefinite-term employment conversion system). JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 95 ❺ List of Directors, Executive Officers and Management Committees (As of July 1, 2019) 1. Directors Director and President, CEO, Representative Executive Officer.............................................. Mitsuhiko Uehira (Concurrently holds the position of Director, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Director and Deputy President, Representative Executive Officer.............................................. Masaaki Horigane Director.............................................................................................. Masatsugu Nagato (Concurrently holds the position of Representative Executive Officer, President & CEO, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Outside Director............................................................................. Masako Suzuki (Concurrently holds the position of Senior Advisor of Pasona Group Inc.) Outside Director............................................................................. Tamotsu Saito (Concurrently holds the position of Chairman of the Board of IHI Corporation) Outside Director............................................................................. Michiaki Ozaki (Attorney-at-law) Outside Director............................................................................. Meyumi Yamada (Concurrently holds the position of Executive Director of istyle Inc.) Outside Director............................................................................. Yoshie Komuro (Concurrently holds the position of President of Work-Life Balance Co., Ltd.) Outside Director............................................................................. Kazuyuki Harada (Concurrently holds the position of President & Representative Director of Keikyu Corporation) Outside Director............................................................................. Akira Satake 2. Executive Officers (Excludes persons holding concurrent posts in addition to the above. 1. Directors) Deputy President Representative Executive Officer Executive Officer Toru Onishi Tetsuya Senda Executive Officer Hidekazu Sakamoto Senior Managing Executive Officer Yoshito Horiie Executive Officer Masamichi Yokoyama Managing Executive Officer Atsushi Tachibana Executive Officer Takashi Iida Managing Executive Officer Nobuyasu Kato (Concurrently holds the position of Managing Executive Officer, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.) Executive Officer Shinsuke Fujii Managing Executive Officer Yasuaki Hironaka Executive Officer Norihiro Fujimori Managing Executive Officer Tomoaki Nara Executive Officer Hajime Saito Managing Executive Officer Nobuatsu Uchikoba Executive Officer Susumu Miyamoto Managing Executive Officer Yasumi Suzukawa Executive Officer Takashi Muro Managing Executive Officer Yoshiki Miyanishi Executive Officer Takayuki Haruna Managing Executive Officer Michiko Matsuda Executive Officer Takeshi Kume Managing Executive Officer Kieko Onoki Managing Executive Officer Junko Koie Managing Executive Officer Motonori Tanaka 3. Nomination Committee 4. Audit Committee 5. Compensation Committee Chairman Masatsugu Nagato Chairman Michiaki Ozaki Chairman Tamotsu Saito Member Tamotsu Saito Member Masako Suzuki Member Masatsugu Nagato Member Kazuyuki Harada Member Meyumi Yamada Member Kazuyuki Harada Member Akira Satake 96 ❻ Organization Chart (As of April 1, 2019) Internal Audit Department Business Process Audit Office Vision Compliance Control Department Information Security Office Regional Compliance Division (13 locations) Shareholders’ Meeting Sales Quality Control Department Board of Directors Risk Management Department Nomination Committee Customer Services Department Customer Services Office (Five locations) Enhancing Corporate Value Audit Call Center Audit Committee Committee Office Compensation General Affairs Department Real Estate Planning Office Committee Secretariate Chief Actuary Human Resources Department Diversity Promotion Office Human Resources Development Department Chief Actuary Office Legal Affairs Department Claims-Related Services Review Session Corporate Planning Department Research and Public Agency Relations Office President, CEO Representative Executive Officer Digital Services Acceleration Department Affiliated Business Office Medium-term Strategy Public Relations Department IR Office Cash-Flow and Expense Management Department Executive Committee Actuarial and Accounting Department Economic Value Promotion Office Accounting Office Specialized Committees Business Process Planning Department Business Process Services Office Financial Management Committee Direct Services Promotion Office Risk Management Committee Administration Services Center (Five locations) Compliance Committee Underwriting Department Underwriting Services Center (Five locations) Customer Services Committee Policy Administration Services Center Policy Administration Department (Five locations) Sustainability Product Development Claims-Related Services Department Claims-Related Services Center (Five locations) Committee Administrative and IT Policy Assessment Department Claim Payment Quality Control Office Systems Reform Committee IT Systems Management Department Policy Assessment Services Center Work Style Reform Committee (Five locations) IT Systems Planning Department IT Systems Management Center Information Security Committee Product Planning Department Disclosure Committee Sales Planning Department Sales IT Systems Planning Office Sales Promotion Department Platinum Life Service Planning Office Data Compilation Whole Sales Department Sales Training Department Investment Planning Department Investment Operation Department Credit and Alternative Investment Department Alternative Investment Office Credit Assessment Department Loan Department Regional Headquarters (13 locations) Branches (82 locations) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 97 Data Compilation 5. Transition of Significant Management Indicators, etc. Japan Post Group (Consolidated) (Millions of yen) As of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Total income 14,268,281 14,272,742 13,336,802 13,012,517 12,804,409 Income before income taxes 780,319 670,943 170,887 709,134 695,487 Net income (loss) 482,682 425,972 (28,976) 460,623 479,419 Comprehensive income (loss) 2,212,035 (177,994) 8,867 118,564 291,836 Net assets 15,301,561 15,176,088 14,954,581 14,743,234 14,788,654 Total assets 295,849,794 291,947,080 293,162,545 290,640,154 286,170,709 Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 40.40% 27.47% 23.80% 19.11% 17.73% (domestic standard) Consolidated solvency margin ratio 1,621.1% 1,087.4% 922.0% 722.7% 670.7% Notes: 1. T he amount of net income (loss) attributable to Japan Post Holdings Co. from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 has been used for net income (loss) of Japan Post Group (Consolidated). 2. The consolidated capital adequacy ratio (domestic standard) has been calculated in line with provisions of Article 52-25 of the Banking Act and on the basis of criteria for judging whether a bank holding company’s capital adequacy ratio and that of its subsidiaries are appropriate in light of assets held (Financial Services Agency Notice No. 20, 2006). 3. The consolidated solvency margin ratio has been calculated in accordance with Articles 210-11-3 and 210-11-4 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act and Notification No. 23 issued by the Financial Services Agency in 2011. Japan Post Holdings Co. (Non-consolidated) (Millions of yen) As of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Operating income 251,919 309,975 303,808 280,850 274,551 Net operating income 147,187 231,417 226,964 218,727 213,623 Net ordinary income 149,298 232,919 228,831 219,729 215,900 Net income 131,181 94,311 207,015 196,232 220,791 Net assets 8,744,456 8,057,703 8,057,856 7,950,122 7,940,442 Total assets 9,107,178 8,418,459 8,261,109 8,127,442 8,079,602 Japan Post Co. (Consolidated) (Millions of yen) As of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Operating income — 3,638,847 3,758,970 3,881,943 3,960,669 Net operating income — 39,105 53,430 86,564 182,021 Net ordinary income — 42,336 52,221 85,459 179,865 Net income (loss) — 47,247 (385,235) 58,476 126,614 Net assets — 1,244,984 794,244 831,253 915,130 Total assets — 5,651,387 5,091,375 5,098,926 5,182,809 Notes: 1. Because figures have been listed on a consolidated basis from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 when nonconsolidated figures had been listed, are expressed with the symbol「−」 (same for each segment). 2. The method of presentation has been changed for Japan Post Co. from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, whereby rental transactions of post offices, etc., which had previously been included in other income and other expenses, are included in operating income, operating costs and sales, general and administrative costs. Accordingly, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect this change in presentation. 3. The amount of net income (loss) attributable to Japan Post Co. has been used for net income (loss) of Japan Post Co. (Consolidated). 4. Japan Post Co. has applied Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) from the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and has restated significant management indicators, etc. for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. 98 [Postal and domestic logistics business segment (Consolidated)] (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Operating income — 1,929,444 1,929,928 2,022,526 2,114,950 Vision Net operating income — 10,323 12,053 41,903 121,388 Note: The method of presentation has been changed for Japan Post Co. from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, whereby rental transactions of post offices, etc., which had previously been included in other income and other expenses, are included in operating income, operating costs and sales, general and administrative costs. Accordingly, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect this change in presentation. [Post office business segment (Consolidated)] (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended Enhancing Corporate Value March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Operating income — 1,360,344 1,386,456 1,358,798 1,362,579 Net operating income — 39,299 63,334 39,771 59,619 Note: The method of presentation has been changed for Japan Post Co. from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, whereby rental transactions of post offices, etc., which had previously been included in other income and other expenses, are included in operating income, operating costs and sales, general and administrative costs. Accordingly, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect this change in presentation. [International logistics business segment (Consolidated)] (Millions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Medium-term Strategy Operating income — 544,062 644,416 704,302 700,650 Net operating income — 17,231 5,642 10,254 10,300 Note: For the international logistics business segment, the amount presented in net operating income is EBIT. Japan Post Bank Co. (Consolidated) (Millions of yen) As of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Ordinary income — — — 2,044,940 1,845,413 Net ordinary income — — — 499,654 373,978 Sustainability Net income — — — 352,775 266,189 Net assets — — — 11,521,680 11,362,365 Total assets — — — 210,629,821 208,974,134 Consolidated capital adequacy ratio — — — 17.43% 15.80% (domestic standard) Notes: 1. Because financial statements have been prepared on a consolidated basis from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and prior years, when nonconsolidated figures had been listed, are expressed with the symbol「−」 . 2. The amount of net income attributable to Japan Post Bank Co. has been used for net income of Japan Post Bank Co. (Consolidated). 3. The Consolidated capital adequacy ratio (domestic standard) has been calculated based on standards stipulated by Article 14-2 of the Banking Act for the purpose of determining whether banks have sufficient equity capital given their holdings of assets and other instruments (Notification No. 19, the Financial Services Agency, 2006). Data Compilation Japan Post Insurance Co. (Consolidated) (Millions of yen) As of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Ordinary income — 9,605,743 8,659,444 7,952,951 7,916,655 Net ordinary income — 411,504 279,755 309,233 264,870 Net income — 84,897 88,596 104,487 120,480 Net assets — 1,882,982 1,853,203 2,003,126 2,135,137 Total assets — 81,545,182 80,336,760 76,831,261 73,905,017 Consolidated solvency margin ratio — 1,570.3% 1,290.6% 1,131.8% 1,189.8% Notes: 1. Because figures have been listed on a consolidated basis from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and prior years, when non-consolidated figures had been listed, are expressed with the symbol「−」 . 2. The amount of net income attributable to Japan Post Insurance Co. has been used for net income of Japan Post Insurance Co. (Consolidated). 3. The consolidated solvency margin ratio has been calculated in accordance with Articles 86-2 and 88 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act and Notification No. 23 issued by the Financial Services Agency in 2011. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 99 6. Japan Post Group Companies Data Compilation —Consolidated Financial Data CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) (As of March 31, 2019) ASSETS: Cash and due from banks (Notes 3, 5 and 22) ¥ 52,244,467 ¥ 50,782,381 $ 470,713 Call loans (Note 22) 550,000 745,000 4,955 Receivables under resale agreements (Note 22) 8,368,139 — 75,395 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions (Note 22) 2,792,202 11,520,376 25,157 Monetary claims bought (Note 22) 650,638 454,635 5,862 Trading account securities (Note 22) 2 32 0 Money held in trust (Notes 4 and 22) 6,778,335 7,056,398 61,072 Securities (Notes 3, 4, 5 and 22) 195,647,107 199,363,017 1,762,745 Loans (Notes 6 and 22) 12,083,499 13,772,684 108,870 Foreign exchanges 80,396 87,487 724 Other assets (Note 5) 2,419,069 2,365,569 21,795 Tangible fixed assets (Note 7) Buildings 1,172,950 1,195,097 10,568 Land 1,538,589 1,544,016 13,862 Construction in progress 113,808 83,165 1,025 Other tangible fixed assets 329,714 332,333 2,971 Total tangible fixed assets 3,155,062 3,154,613 28,427 Intangible assets Software 299,378 309,572 2,697 Goodwill 2,718 2,885 24 Other intangible assets 19,867 17,421 179 Total intangible assets 321,964 329,880 2,901 Asset for retirement benefits (Note 14) 50,214 43,694 452 Deferred tax assets (Note 16) 1,035,930 970,601 9,334 Reserve for possible loan losses (6,323) (6,217) (57) Total assets ¥286,170,709 ¥290,640,154 $2,578,347 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 100 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 Vision (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) (As of March 31, 2019) LIABILITIES: Deposits (Notes 5 and 22) ¥179,625,834 ¥178,489,035 $1,618,397 Payables under repurchase agreements (Notes 5 and 22) 11,569,371 1,985,285 104,238 Policy reserves and others Reserve for outstanding claims (Note 8) 519,568 548,196 4,681 Policy reserves (Notes 8 and 15) 65,060,549 67,777,297 586,184 Enhancing Corporate Value Reserve for policyholder dividends (Note 10) 1,513,634 1,622,889 13,638 Total policy reserves and others 67,093,751 69,948,383 604,503 Payables under securities lending transactions (Notes 5 and 22) 5,896,268 17,475,671 53,124 Commercial papers (Notes 11 and 22) 28,029 191,481 253 Foreign exchanges 628 309 6 Bonds (Notes 12 and 22) 100,000 — 901 Other liabilities (Notes 3, 5, 11 and 13) 2,755,370 3,350,756 24,825 Reserve for bonuses 122,665 126,869 1,105 Liability for retirement benefits (Note 14) 2,236,273 2,256,418 20,148 Medium-term Strategy Reserve for employee stock ownership plan trust 839 809 8 Reserve for management board benefit trust 1,033 727 9 Reserve for reimbursement of deposits 88,332 86,114 796 Reserve for price fluctuations (Note 15) 897,492 916,743 8,086 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 16) 966,160 1,068,313 8,705 Total liabilities ¥271,382,054 ¥275,896,920 $2,445,104 NET ASSETS (Note 17): Capital stock ¥ 3,500,000 ¥3,500,000 $31,534 Capital surplus 4,135,429 4,135,462 37,259 Retained earnings 3,799,974 3,551,054 34,237 Treasury stock (831,887) (831,945) (7,495) Sustainability Total shareholders’ equity 10,603,516 10,354,570 95,536 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 2,580,765 2,688,219 23,252 Net deferred gains (losses) on hedges (55,415) 2,784 (499) Foreign currency translation adjustments (89,350) (85,870) (805) Accumulated adjustments for retirement benefits 253,992 294,238 2,288 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 2,689,992 2,899,371 24,236 Non-controlling interests 1,495,145 1,489,292 13,471 Total net assets 14,788,654 14,743,234 133,243 ¥286,170,709 ¥290,640,154 $2,578,347 Data Compilation Total liabilities and net assets See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 101 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2017 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 INCOME: Postal business income ¥2,767,219 ¥2,676,204 $24,932 Banking business income (Note 18) 1,843,742 2,042,980 16,612 Life insurance business income 7,916,596 7,952,894 71,327 Other income (Note 19) 276,850 340,438 2,494 Total income 12,804,409 13,012,517 115,365 EXPENSES: Operating expenses 9,014,985 8,971,688 81,223 Personnel expenses 2,613,671 2,629,701 23,549 Depreciation and amortization 269,382 279,165 2,427 Other expenses (Notes 18 and 20) 210,882 422,825 1,900 Total expenses 12,108,921 12,303,382 109,099 Income before income taxes 695,487 709,134 6,266 Income taxes (Note 16): Current 255,828 357,503 2,305 Deferred (82,829) (160,395) (746) Total income taxes 172,999 197,107 1,559 Net income 522,488 512,027 4,708 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 43,069 51,404 388 Net income attributable to Japan Post Holdings ¥479,419 ¥460,623 $4,319 Yen U.S. Dollars 2019 2018 2019 From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2017 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 Per share of common stock (Note 28): Basic net income ¥118.57 ¥112.97 $1.07 Diluted net income — — — See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2017 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 Net income ¥522,488 ¥512,027 $4,708 Other comprehensive loss (Note 21) Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (120,913) (468,530) (1,089) Net deferred gains (losses) on hedges (65,392) 119,718 (589) Foreign currency translation adjustments (3,888) (5,111) (35) Adjustments for retirement benefits (40,455) (39,544) (364) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of affiliates (2) 5 (0) Total other comprehensive loss (230,651) (393,462) (2,078) Comprehensive income ¥291,836 ¥118,564 $2,629 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Japan Post Holdings ¥270,054 ¥105,804 $2,433 Non-controlling interests 21,782 12,759 196 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 102 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 2019 (From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (Millions of yen) Shareholders’ equity Vision Total shareholders’ Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock equity BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 ¥ 3,500,000 ¥ 4,135,462 ¥ 3,551,054 ¥ (831,945) ¥ 10,354,570 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (230,500) (230,500) Net income attributable to 479,419 479,419 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Enhancing Corporate Value Post Holdings due to (32) (32) transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Disposals of treasury stock 58 58 Net changes in items other than shareholders’ equity in the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year — (32) 248,919 58 248,945 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 ¥ 3,500,000 ¥ 4,135,429 ¥ 3,799,974 ¥ (831,887) ¥ 10,603,516 Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net unrealized Foreign Accumulated Non-controlling Medium-term Strategy Net deferred accumulated Total net assets gains (losses) currency adjustments interests gains (losses) other on available-fortranslation for retirement on hedges comprehensive sale securities adjustments benefits income (loss) BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 ¥ 2,688,219 ¥2,784 ¥ (85,870) ¥ 294,238 ¥ 2,899,371 ¥ 1,489,292 ¥ 14,743,234 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (230,500) Net income attributable to 479,419 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Post Holdings due to (32) transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Disposals of treasury stock 58 Net changes in items other Sustainability than shareholders’ equity in (107,454) (58,199) (3,479) (40,245) (209,379) 5,853 (203,525) the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year (107,454) (58,199) (3,479) (40,245) (209,379) 5,853 45,419 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 ¥ 2,580,765 ¥(55,415) ¥ (89,350) ¥ 253,992 ¥ 2,689,992 ¥ 1,495,145 ¥ 14,788,654 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 103 2018 (From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) (Millions of yen) Shareholders’ equity Total shareholders’ Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock equity BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2017 ¥ 3,500,000 ¥ 4,135,414 ¥ 3,294,130 ¥ (731,992) ¥ 10,197,552 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (204,013) (204,013) Net income attributable to 460,623 460,623 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Post Holdings due to 47 47 transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Purchases of treasury stock (99,999) (99,999) Disposals of treasury stock 46 46 Changes in the scope of 314 314 consolidation Net changes in items other than shareholders’ equity in the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year — 47 256,923 (99,953) 157,018 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2018 ¥ 3,500,000 ¥ 4,135,462 ¥ 3,551,054 ¥ (831,945) ¥ 10,354,570 Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net unrealized Foreign Accumulated Non-controlling Net deferred accumulated Total net assets gains (losses) currency adjustments interests gains (losses) other on available-fortranslation for retirement on hedges comprehensive sale securities adjustments benefits income (loss) BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2017 ¥ 3,105,162 ¥(103,790) ¥ (80,730) ¥ 333,571 ¥ 3,254,213 ¥ 1,502,815 ¥ 14,954,581 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (204,013) Net income attributable to 460,623 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Post Holdings due to 47 transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Purchases of treasury stock (99,999) Disposals of treasury stock 46 Changes in the scope of 314 consolidation Net changes in items other than shareholders’ equity in (416,943) 106,575 (5,140) (39,333) (354,842) (13,522) (368,365) the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year (416,943) 106,575 (5,140) (39,333) (354,842) (13,522) (211,347) BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2018 ¥ 2,688,219 ¥2,784 ¥ (85,870) ¥ 294,238 ¥ 2,899,371 ¥ 1,489,292 ¥ 14,743,234 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 104 2019 (From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (Millions of U.S. Dollars (Note 1)) Shareholders’ equity Vision Total shareholders’ Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock equity BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 $ 31,534 $ 37,260 $ 31,994 $ (7,496) $ 93,293 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (2,077) (2,077) Net income attributable to 4,319 4,319 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Enhancing Corporate Value Post Holdings due to (0) (0) transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Disposals of treasury stock 1 1 Net changes in items other than shareholders’ equity in the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year — (0) 2,243 1 2,243 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 $ 31,534 $ 37,259 $ 34,237 $ (7,495) $ 95,536 Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net unrealized Foreign Accumulated Non-controlling Medium-term Strategy Net deferred accumulated Total net assets gains (losses) currency adjustments interests gains (losses) other on available-fortranslation for retirement on hedges comprehensive sale securities adjustments benefits income (loss) BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 $ 24,220 $25 $ (774) $ 2,651 $ 26,123 $ 13,418 $ 132,834 Changes in the fiscal year: Cash dividends (2,077) Net income attributable to 4,319 Japan Post Holdings Changes in equity of Japan Post Holdings due to (0) transactions with noncontrolling shareholders Disposals of treasury stock 1 Net changes in items other Sustainability than shareholders’ equity in (968) (524) (31) (363) (1,886) 53 (1,834) the fiscal year Net changes in the fiscal year (968) (524) (31) (363) (1,886) 53 409 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 $ 23,252 $(499) $ (805) $ 2,288 $ 24,236 $ 13,471 $ 133,243 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2017 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Income before income taxes ¥695,487 ¥709,134 $6,266 Income taxes paid (367,228) (277,031) (3,309) Policyholder dividends paid (220,769) (267,178) (1,989) Depreciation and amortization 269,382 279,165 2,427 Losses on impairment of fixed assets 12,927 17,964 116 Amortization of goodwill 287 167 3 Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (699) (348) (6) Gains on negative goodwill — (568) — Net change in reserve for outstanding claims (28,628) (29,180) (258) Net change in policy reserves (2,716,748) (2,397,936) (24,477) Provision for interest on policyholder dividends 7 7 0 Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends 111,806 117,792 1,007 Net change in reserve for possible loan losses 170 (1,491) 2 Net change in reserve for bonuses (4,728) 25,138 (43) Net change in asset and liability for retirement benefits (26,564) (30,736) (239) Net change in reserve for employee stock ownership plan trust 30 809 0 Net change in reserve for management board benefit trust 306 473 3 Net change in reserve for reimbursement of deposits 2,218 84,018 20 Net change in reserve for price fluctuations (19,251) 128,031 (173) Interest income (accrual basis) (1,357,775) (1,502,747) (12,233) Interest expenses (accrual basis) 347,157 331,781 3,128 Net (gains) losses on securities 50,858 62,931 458 Net (gains) losses on money held in trust (156,619) (146,122) (1,411) Net (gains) losses on foreign exchanges (578,515) 14,473 (5,212) Net (gains) losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets 1,089 (83,462) 10 Net change in loans 846,288 (2,083,094) 7,625 Net change in deposits 1,136,799 484,716 10,242 Net change in borrowed money 1,500 2,400 14 Net change in call loans, etc. (8,300,349) (36,222) (74,785) Net change in receivables under securities borrowing transactions 8,224,153 494,752 74,098 for banking business Net change in call money, etc. 9,584,086 978,911 86,351 Net change in commercial papers (163,451) 151,156 (1,473) Net change in payables under securities lending transactions for (11,338,666) 117,829 (102,159) banking business Net change in foreign exchanges (assets) 7,090 (8,840) 64 Net change in foreign exchanges (liabilities) 318 (97) 3 Interest received (cash basis) 1,372,572 1,556,245 12,367 Interest paid (cash basis) (781,463) (823,888) (7,041) Other, net (212,880) (206,350) (1,918) Total adjustments (4,305,287) (3,046,529) (38,790) Net cash used in operating activities ¥(3,609,800) ¥(2,337,394) $ (32,524) See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 106 Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 From April 1, 2018 From April 1, 2017 From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 to March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019 Vision CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases of call loans ¥(8,535,000) ¥(8,090,000) $(76,899) Proceeds from redemption of call loans 8,650,000 7,975,000 77,935 Purchases of monetary claims bought (1,319,999) (429,999) (11,893) Proceeds from sale and redemption of monetary claims bought 1,141,145 281,242 10,282 Net change in receivables under securities borrowing transactions 504,020 224,499 4,541 for life insurance business Enhancing Corporate Value Net change in payables under securities lending transactions for (240,736) (1,225,519) (2,169) life insurance business Purchases of securities (26,180,484) (29,433,620) (235,881) Proceeds from sale of securities 4,011,552 4,623,202 36,143 Proceeds from redemption of securities 26,578,983 26,568,676 239,472 Purchases of money held in trust (810,563) (726,363) (7,303) Proceeds from sale of money held in trust 943,016 78,158 8,496 Payments for loans (891,512) (911,162) (8,032) Proceeds from collection of loans 1,731,609 1,343,823 15,601 Purchases of tangible fixed assets (221,079) (204,687) (1,992) Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 10,069 122,726 91 Purchases of intangible assets (83,146) (82,949) (749) Medium-term Strategy Purchases of stocks of subsidiaries resulting in change in — (425) — the scope of consolidation Proceeds from purchases of stocks of subsidiaries resulting in 30 — 0 change in the scope of consolidation Payments for sale of stocks of subsidiaries resulting in change in (656) — (6) the scope of consolidation Other, net (101,204) (13,588) (912) Net cash provided by investing activities ¥ 5,186,043 ¥ 99,012 $ 46,725 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from borrowings ¥86,054 ¥103,644 $775 Repayment of borrowings (47,715) (64,360) (430) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 99,398 — 896 Purchases of treasury stock — (99,999) — Sustainability Purchases of treasury stock of subsidiaries (542) (449) (5) Proceeds from disposals of treasury stock of subsidiaries 54 25 0 Dividends paid (230,383) (203,633) (2,076) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (25,150) (25,589) (227) Purchases of stocks of subsidiaries that do not result in change in (4) (132) (0) the scope of consolidation Proceeds from sale of stocks of subsidiaries that do not result in 8,647 — 78 change in the scope of consolidation Other, net (1,613) (1,545) (15) Net cash used in financing activities (111,256) (292,041) (1,002) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 774 (944) 7 Data Compilation Net change in cash and cash equivalents 1,465,761 (2,531,367) 13,206 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the fiscal year 50,694,528 53,225,675 456,749 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from change in the — 220 — scope of consolidation Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fiscal year (Note 3) ¥ 52,160,289 ¥ 50,694,528 $469,955 See the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 107 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2019 AND 2018 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION and Universal Technics Co., Ltd., which were non-consolidated The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Japan Post subsidiaries. Japan Post Finance Co., Ltd. and 3 subsidiaries of Holdings Co., Ltd. (the “Company”), have been prepared in accordance Toll were excluded from the scope of consolidation due to the with the provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments sale of their stocks and the other 13 subsidiaries of Toll were and Exchange Act and its related accounting regulations concerning excluded from the scope of consolidation due to the liquidation. preparation of consolidated financial statements, Ordinance for B) Non-consolidated subsidiaries Enforcement of the Banking Act, Ordinance for Enforcement of The Company has 2 (1 in 2018) non-consolidated subsidiaries, Insurance Business Act and in accordance with accounting principles namely, silent partnership(s) investing in real estate for all periods generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), which are different presented. in certain respects as to application and disclosure requirements of  The non-consolidated subsidiaries are excluded from the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). scope of consolidation because their assets, income, net income  The accounts of overseas subsidiaries and affiliates, are, in (loss) (amount corresponding to the Group’s equity position), principle, integrated with those of the Company’s accounting policies retained earnings (amount corresponding to the Group’s equity for purposes of consolidation unless they apply different accounting position), accumulated other comprehensive income (amount principles and standards as required under U.S. GAAP or IFRS, in corresponding to the Group’s equity position) and others are which case a certain limited number of items are adjusted based on immaterial, and the exclusion of these companies from the scope materiality. of consolidation does not hinder a reasonable understanding of  In preparing these consolidated financial statements, certain the Group’s financial position and results of operations. reclassifications and rearrangements have been made to the 2) Application of the equity method consolidated financial statements issued domestically in order to A) Non-consolidated subsidiaries accounted for by the equity present them in a form which is more familiar to readers outside method Japan. There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries accounted for by  All Japanese yen figures in the consolidated financial statements the equity method for all periods presented. have been rounded down to the nearest million yen, except for per B) Affiliates accounted for by the equity method share information. Accordingly, the total of each account may not be The Company has 22 (22 in 2018) affiliates accounted for by the equal to the combined total of individual items. equity method, namely, JA Foods Oita Co., Ltd., Ring Bell Co., Ltd.,  The consolidated financial statements are stated in Japanese yen, Saison Asset Management Co., Ltd., SDP Center Co., Ltd., ATM the currency of the country in which the Company is incorporated Japan Business Service, Ltd., JP Asset Management Co., Ltd. and and mainly operates. The translations of Japanese yen amounts into Toll’s affiliates for all periods presented. U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for the convenience of readers  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, 1 of Toll’s outside Japan and have been made at the rate of ¥110.99 to U.S. $1, the affiliates was included in the scope of the equity method due approximate rate of exchange as of March 31, 2019. Such translations to the establishment of the company and another. 1 of Toll’s should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen affiliates was excluded from the scope of the equity method due amounts could be converted into U.S. dollars at that or any other rate. to the sale of its stock.  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, 1 of Toll’s 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES affiliates was excluded from the scope of the equity method (1) Consolidation and Equity Method due to becoming a subsidiary by additional purchases of its stock 1) Scope of consolidation and another 1 of Toll’s affiliates was excluded from the scope of Under Japanese GAAP, a company is required to consolidate the equity method due to the sale of its stock. any subsidiary when the company substantially controls the C) Non-consolidated subsidiaries that are not accounted for by the operations of the subsidiary, even if it is not majority-owned. equity method Control is defined as the power to govern the decision-making The Company has 1 (2 in 2018) non-consolidated subsidiaries body of an enterprise. The consolidated financial statements that are not accounted for by the equity method, namely, silent as of and for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and partnership(s) investing in real estate for all periods presented. 2018 include the accounts of the Company and its significant D) Affiliates that are not accounted for by the equity method subsidiaries (collectively, the “Group”). The Company has 2 affiliates (1 in 2018) that are not accounted A) Consolidated subsidiaries for by the equity method, namely, BPO.MP COMPANY LIMITED The Company has 265 (264 in 2018) consolidated subsidiaries. and Palma Co., Ltd. for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and Principal consolidated subsidiaries are Japan Post Co., Ltd., Japan BPO.MP COMPANY LIMITED for the fiscal year ended March 31, Post Bank Co., Ltd., and Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. 2018, respectively.  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Japan Post Real  The non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates that are Estate Co., Ltd., 1 subsidiary of Toll Holdings Limited (hereinafter not accounted for by the equity method are excluded from referred to as “Toll”) and other 1 subsidiary were included in the scope of the equity method because their net income the scope of consolidation due to the establishment of these (loss) (amount corresponding to the Group’s equity position), companies. System Trust Laboratory Co., Ltd. was included in the retained earnings (amount corresponding to the Group’s equity scope of consolidation due to the purchase of its stock. Japan position), accumulated other comprehensive income (amount Post Delivery Co., Ltd. and 1 subsidiary of Toll were excluded corresponding to the Group’s equity position) and others are from the scope of consolidation due to the liquidation. JP Logi immaterial, and the exclusion of these companies from the scope Service Co., Ltd. was excluded from the scope of consolidation of companies accounted for by the equity method does not due to the sale of its stock. materially affect the consolidated financial statements.  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Japan Post 3) Fiscal year-end dates of consolidated subsidiaries Capital Co., Ltd., Japan Post Investment Corporation and other A) The fiscal year-end dates of consolidated subsidiaries are as 1 subsidiary were included in the scope of consolidation due follows: to the establishment of these companies. Tokyo Beiyu Co., Ltd., Years ended March 31 2019 2018 which was a non-consolidated subsidiary, was included in the June 30 3 companies 4 companies scope of consolidation due to an increase in its materiality. 1 of Toll’s affiliates was included in the scope of consolidation December 31 32 companies 29 companies due to becoming a subsidiary by additional purchases of its March 31 230 companies 231 companies stock. 15 subsidiaries of Toll were excluded from the scope of B) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, consolidated consolidation due to the liquidation. subsidiaries with a fiscal year-end date of December 31  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, Japan Post and June 30 are consolidated using the preliminary financial Maintenance Co., Ltd., which was a non-consolidated subsidiary, statements as of March 31. was included in the scope of consolidation due to an increase  For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, 28 consolidated in its materiality because of the merger with Nippan Co., Ltd. subsidiaries with a fiscal year-end date of December 31 and 108 consolidated subsidiaries with a fiscal year-end date of June 2) Hedge accounting for foreign exchange risks 30 are consolidated using the preliminary financial statements  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries apply the as of March 31. For the other 1 consolidated subsidiary with deferred hedge method, the fair value hedge method or the a fiscal year-end date of December 31, there was no closing allocation method translating the foreign currency receivables date during the period between the establishment date and at forward rates for hedges of foreign exchange fluctuation risk the consolidated fiscal year-end date of March 31, 2018. arising from the securities denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, only its balance sheet as of the establishment  The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries apply date was consolidated. Appropriate adjustments were made portfolio hedges on the conditions that the hedged securities Vision for material transactions during the period between the denominated in foreign currencies are designated in advance establishment date and the consolidated fiscal year-end date. and that sufficient on-balance (actual) or off-balance (forward) (2) Trading Account Securities liability exposure exists to cover the acquisition cost of the Trading account securities are carried at fair value. hedged securities denominated in the same foreign currencies. (3) Securities  The evaluation of hedge effectiveness for individual hedges is Held-to-maturity bonds are carried at amortized cost and the omitted because the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries cost of these securities sold is calculated using the movingdesignate the hedges in such a way that the major terms of the average method. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line hedged items and the hedging instruments are almost same and method. accordingly assume that the hedges are highly effective. Enhancing Corporate Value  In accordance with “Temporary Treatment of Accounting (6) Depreciation and Auditing Concerning Policy-reserve-matching Bonds in 1) Tangible fixed assets (excluding leased assets) the Insurance Industry” (Japanese Institute of Certified Public  Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is computed using the Accountants (“JICPA”) Industry Audit Committee Report No. 21), straight-line method. policy-reserve-matching bonds are carried at amortized cost and Useful lives of principal assets are as follows: the cost of these securities sold is calculated using the movingBuildings: 2-50 years average method. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line Others: 2-75 years method. 2) Intangible assets (excluding leased assets)  Investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates Amortization of intangible assets is computed using the straightthat are not accounted for by the equity method are carried at line method. The capitalized development costs of software cost and the cost of these securities sold is calculated using the intended for internal use are amortized over the expected moving-average method. useful lives (mainly 5 years) determined by the Company and its  Available-for-sale securities are, in principle, carried at average consolidated subsidiaries. market prices during the final month of the fiscal year for stocks, 3) Leased assets Medium-term Strategy and at market prices at the fiscal year end for others. Cost of Leased assets under finance lease arrangements that transfer the securities sold is calculated using mainly the moving-average ownership of leased property to the lessee are depreciated using method. Available-for-sale securities which are deemed to be the same method applied to company-owned tangible assets. extremely difficult to determine fair value are carried at cost These leased assets are mainly buildings included in “Tangible using the moving-average method or amortized cost (the straightfixed assets”. line method). Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale  Leased assets under finance lease arrangements that do not securities (including net unrealized gains (losses) arising from transfer the ownership of leased property to the lessee are fluctuations in foreign exchange, but excluding cases where depreciated to the residual value of zero or guaranteed value the fair value hedge accounting method is applied to hedge using the straight-line method over the lease term. These leased exposure to the risks of foreign exchange fluctuations), net of assets are mainly personal properties included in “Tangible fixed income taxes, are included in “Net assets”. assets” and software included in “Intangible assets”.  Securities included in “Money Held in Trust Classified as (7) Amortization of Goodwill Trading” are carried at fair value and the cost of these securities Goodwill is amortized for a period up to 20 years depending sold is calculated using mainly the moving-average method. In on the causes of occurrence using the straight-line method. addition, securities included in “Money Held in Trust Classified Goodwill deemed immaterial, however, is expensed as incurred. as Other than Trading or Held-to-Maturity” are carried using (8) Reserve for Possible Loan Losses Sustainability the same method used for securities mentioned above. Net 1) For reserve for possible loan losses of the Company and its unrealized gains (losses) on money held in trust classified as consolidated subsidiaries other than the banking subsidiary and other than trading or held-to-maturity, net of income taxes, are insurance subsidiary, an allowance is provided for loans other included in “Net assets”. than specific loans using a rate determined based on past bad (4) Derivative Transactions debt experience. In addition, an allowance is provided for specific All derivative transactions are valued at fair value. loans such as loans to bankrupt or effectively/substantially (5) Hedge Accounting bankrupt borrowers at the estimated amount considered 1) Hedge accounting for interest rate risks uncollectible based on review of the respective nature of loans. The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries mainly apply the 2) Reserve for possible loan losses of the banking subsidiary is deferred hedge method for hedges of interest rate risk arising provided for in accordance with the write-off and provision from the financial assets and liabilities. standards as described below:  The evaluation of hedge effectiveness is omitted because the  In accordance with “Practical Guidance for Checking Internal Data Compilation Company and its consolidated subsidiaries designate the hedges Controls for Self-Assessments of Assets by Banks and Other in such a way that the major terms of the hedged items and Financial Institutions and for Audits of Loans Written Off and the hedging instruments satisfy almost same conditions as those Loan Loss Allowance Provisions” JICPA, Special Committee for required for the exceptional treatment for interest rate swaps Audits of Banks, etc., Report No. 4), loans to normal borrowers and accordingly assume that the hedges are highly effective. In and borrowers requiring caution are classified into certain groups, addition, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries apply and an allowance is provided for each group based on the the exceptional treatment for interest rate swaps to hedge estimated rate of loan losses. the interest rate risk arising from certain financial assets and  For loans to doubtful borrowers, an allowance is provided for liabilities. based on the amount of loans net of amounts expected to be  As for portfolio hedges on groups of large-volume, small-value collected through disposal of collateral or through execution of monetary debts, the banking subsidiary applies the deferred guarantees and considered to be necessary based on a solvency hedge method as stipulated in “Treatment of Accounting and assessment. For loans to bankrupt or substantially bankrupt Auditing of Application of Accounting Standard for Financial borrowers, an allowance is provided in the amount of loans, Instruments in the Banking Industry” (JICPA Industry Audit net of amounts expected to be collected through disposal of Committee Report No. 24). To evaluate the hedge effectiveness, collateral or to be recoverable under guarantees. the banking subsidiary designates deposits as hedged items  All loans are assessed initially by the marketing and other and interest rate swaps and others as hedging instruments departments based on internal rules for self-assessment of asset and assesses how the hedging instruments offset changes in quality. The asset evaluation department, which is independent the fair value of hedged items by grouping them based on their from the marketing and other departments, reviews these selfmaturities. assessments. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 109 3) Reserve for possible loan losses of the insurance subsidiary is (10) Reserve for Bonuses provided pursuant to its standards for self-assessment of asset A reserve for the employee bonus payments is provided based quality and its write-off and provision standards, and a general on the amount expected to be incurred at the end of the fiscal allowance is provided using a rate determined by past bad debt year based on the projected obligations as of the end of the fiscal experience. In addition, a specific allowance, which is determined year. after reviewing individual collectability of accounts, is recorded. (11) Reserve for Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust  All loans and claims are assessed initially by the relevant For a certain consolidated subsidiary, to provide for the payment departments based on internal rules for self-assessment of asset of the consolidated subsidiary’s shares to its employees that are quality. The asset evaluation department, which is independent determined based on the rule set by the consolidated subsidiary, from the relevant departments, reviews these self-assessments. a reserve is provided based on the estimated amount of stock The above allowances are recorded based on the results of these benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year. assessment. (12) Reserve for Management Board Benefit Trust  For secured loans and guaranteed loans that were extended to  For the Company and its certain consolidated subsidiaries, borrowers in a state of legal bankruptcy, including legal bankrupt to provide for the payment of the Company’s shares, etc. to or civil rehabilitation, or that are considered substantially Executive Officers and other management that are determined bankrupt, respective loan receivable amounts are directly written based on the rules set by each company, a reserve is provided off for an estimated uncollectable amount, which is calculated based on the estimated amount of stock benefit obligations at as the amount of loans, net of collateral value or the amounts the end of the fiscal year. expected to be recoverable under guarantees. The amount (13) Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits written off for these loans was ¥232 million ($2 million) and To provide for requests for refunds by depositors with regard to ¥65 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, deposits that are no longer recorded as liabilities, a reserve is respectively. provided based on the estimated amount of losses to be incurred (9) Policy Reserves in accordance with future requests for refunds. Policy reserves are reserves provided in accordance with Article (14) Retirement Benefits 116 of the Insurance Business Act. Insurance premium reserves 1) In calculating the projected benefit obligation, the benefit are recognized based on the following methodology: formula basis is used to attribute the expected benefit to 1) Reserves for contracts subject to the standard policy reserves respective service period. Treatment of prior service cost and are calculated in accordance with the method prescribed by the actuarial difference are accounted for as follows. Commissioner for Financial Services Agency (Ordinance No. 48  Prior service cost is amortized using the straight-line method issued by the Ministry of Finance in 1996). over a fixed period (7-14 years) within the estimated average 2) Reserves for the other contracts are calculated based on the net remaining service period for employees as incurred from the level premium method. fiscal year in which the difference is incurred.  Pursuant to Article 69, Paragraph 5 of the Ordinance for  Actuarial difference is amortized based on a proportional Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act, effective from the amount using the straight-line method over a fixed period (7-14 fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, additional policy reserves years) within the estimated average remaining service period are accumulated, in preparation for future performance of for employees as incurred from the fiscal year following the obligations, over a 10-year period for a portion of reinsurance respective fiscal year in which the difference is incurred. contracts from the Management Organization for Postal Savings 2) Charges for the pension program of national public service and Postal Life Insurance (The name of the organization was personnel associated with pension benefits for the service period changed to “Organization for Postal Savings, Postal Life Insurance until December 1958 for those personnel who had worked in and Post Office Network” on April 1, 2019; hereinafter referred postal services for the former Ministry of Communications and to as the “Management Organization” in this note), which is an the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and retired independent administrative institution. As a result, the amounts after January 1959 (hereinafter referred to as “share of public of provision for additional policy reserves were ¥179,882 million service pension”) are recognized as part of “Asset for retirement ($1,621 million) and ¥180,903 million for the fiscal years ended benefits”. The Company has established retirement benefit trusts March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. for the above pension program.  In addition, pursuant to Article 69, Paragraph 5 of the Ordinance  The actuarial difference is amortized using the straight-line for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act, additional policy method over a fixed period (9 years) within the estimated reserves are accumulated, in preparation for future performance average remaining payment periods for eligible personnel as of obligations, for lump-sum payment annuities for the fiscal incurred from the fiscal year following the respective fiscal year year ended March 31, 2018. As a result, the amount of provision in which the difference is incurred. for additional policy reserves for the fiscal year ended March  The prior service cost is amortized using the straight-line 31, 2018 was ¥17,025 million. Income before income taxes method over a fixed period (9 years) within the estimated decreased by the same amount compared with the case where average remaining payment periods for eligible personnel as the accumulation was not made for the fiscal year ended March incurred from the fiscal year in which the difference is incurred. 31, 2018. 3) Charges for the pension program of national public service  The Management Organization was established in October personnel associated with pension benefits for those personnel 2007 to support the privatization of Japan Post Group by who had worked in postal services for the former Ministry succeeding from the former Japan Post Corporation’s Postal of Communications and the former Ministry of Posts and Savings such as fixed amount or term postal savings deposited Telecommunications and retired by December 1958 (hereinafter by and Postal Life Insurance Contracts concluded by September referred to as “share of another public service pension”) are 2007 to ensure that such Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance recognized as part of “Liability for retirement benefits”. The Contracts are managed appropriately and to fulfill the relevant Company has established retirement benefit trusts for the above liabilities without fail. mutual aid pension program.  The insurance subsidiary has entered into reinsurance contracts  The actuarial difference is amortized using the straight-line comprising outsourcing agreements for the administrative method over a fixed period (5 years) within the estimated operation of the Postal Life Insurance and reinsurance contracts average remaining payment periods for eligible personnel as for insurance liabilities based on former Postal Life Insurance incurred from the fiscal year following the respective fiscal year Contracts, for Postal Life Insurance Contracts concluded by in which the difference is incurred. September 2007 that have been assumed by the Management (15)  Translation of Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Organization. Currencies into Japanese Yen  In addition, based on the master plan by the Postal Service  Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Privatization Act, with respect to the amount equivalent to that mainly translated into Japanese yen at the exchange rates lent to policyholders of the Postal Life Insurance Contracts and prevailing at the fiscal year-end. to Japanese local governments and others succeeded from the  Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, etc. are mainly former Japan Post Corporation, the insurance subsidiary has lent translated into Japanese yen at the exchange rates prevailing loans to the Management Organization under the same loan at the fiscal year-end and income and expenses are mainly conditions as those of the contracts between the former Japan translated into Japanese yen at the average exchange rates for Post Corporation and its counterparties. the fiscal year. The resulting translation differences are included in “Foreign currency translation adjustments” and “Non-controlling interests” under “Net assets”. 110 (16) Reserve for Price Fluctuations difference and prior service cost concerning retirement benefits Reserve for price fluctuations is computed based on Article 115 for employees from 8 years to 7 years due to the decrease in the of the Insurance Business Act. estimated average remaining service period for employees from (17) Statement of Cash Flows the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash on hand, deposits  As a result, expenses decreased by ¥341 million while income that can be withdrawn at any time, short-term investments before income taxes increased by the same amount for the fiscal with a maturity of three months or less when purchased which year ended March 31, 2018. can easily be converted to cash and are subject to little risk of  In addition, the Company has changed the amortization period Vision change in value (excluding negotiable certificates of deposit held of actuarial difference and prior service cost concerning share by the banking subsidiary included in “Cash and due from banks”) of public service pension from 10 years to 9 years due to the and bank overdrafts treated equally as cash equivalents in fund decrease in the estimated average remaining payment period for management (negative cash equivalents). eligible personnel from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. (18) Consumption Taxes  As a result, expenses decreased by ¥6,187 million while All figures are net of consumption taxes. income before income taxes increased by the same amount for (19) Consolidated Tax Payment System the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.  The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries adopt (22) Additional Information the consolidated tax payment system, under which Japan Post Transactions granting the Company’s shares, etc. through a trust Enhancing Corporate Value Holdings Co., Ltd. is the parent company. to Executive Officers and other management of the Group (20) New Accounting Pronouncements  The Company and Japan Post Co., Ltd., a consolidated “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Statement subsidiary, have introduced a performance-linked stock No. 29, March 30, 2018) and “Implementation Guidance on compensation system utilizing a trust (hereinafter the “System”) Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance for the Company’s Executive Officers and Directors (excluding No. 30, March 30, 2018) Directors who are not in charge of business execution) and 1. Overview Executive Officers of Japan Post Co., Ltd. (collectively referred to  The above standard and guidance provide comprehensive as “Executives subject to the System”). principles for revenue recognition. Under the standard and  In accounting for the trust agreement, “Practical Solution guidance, revenue is recognized by applying following 5 steps: on Transactions of Delivering the Company’s Own Stock to Step 1: Identify contract(s) with customers. Employees, etc. through Trusts” (ASBJ PITF No. 30, March 26, Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 2015) has been applied. Step 3: Determine the transaction price. 1. Outline of the transactions  Step 4:  Allocate the transaction price to the performance  The System is a structure to provide the Company’s shares, Medium-term Strategy obligation in the contract. etc. to Executives subject to the System in accordance with Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a the Stock Benefit Regulations of the Company and Japan Post performance obligation. Co., Ltd., and grants a certain number of points reflecting their 2. Effective date levels of attainment of performance targets for the fiscal year. Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, Upon retirement, Executives subject to the System shall receive 2022. from the trust the Company’s shares and money in the amount 3. Effects of the application of the standards equivalent to the fair value of a certain portion of the Company’s  The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are shares as at the time of retirement in accordance with the currently in the process of determining the effects of these new number of points granted. standards on the consolidated financial statements.  The shares provided for Executives subject to the System  Toll and its subsidiaries and affiliates are acquired by the trust in advance using the funds set by the  “Leases” (IFRS 16, January 13, 2016) Company, and are managed separately as trust assets. 1. Overview 2. The Company’s shares remaining in the trust  The above standard, in principle, requires lessees to recognize  The Company’s shares remaining in the trust are recorded assets and liabilities for all leases. under net assets as treasury stock at the book value in the trust 2. Effective date (excluding incidental expenses). The book value of the treasury Sustainability  Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, stock was ¥923 million ($8 million) and ¥981 million, and the 2020. number of shares of the treasury stock was 656 thousand 3. Effects of the application of the standard shares and 698 thousand shares as of March 31, 2019 and 2018,  The Company is currently in the process of determining the effects respectively. of this new standard on the consolidated financial statements.  A stock compensation system utilizing a trust has also been (21) Changes in Accounting Estimates introduced at Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. and Japan Post Insurance For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Co., Ltd., which are consolidated subsidiaries. The Company has changed the amortization period of actuarial 3. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Reconciliation of Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Cash and Due from Banks in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Data Compilation Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Cash and due from banks ¥ 52,244,467 ¥ 50,782,381 $ 470,713 Negotiable certificates of deposit of the banking subsidiary (65,000) (65,000) (586) included in “Cash and due from banks” Negotiable certificates of deposit included in “Securities” 15,000 10,000 135 Deposits with maturities of more than three months (200) (165) (2) Bank overdrafts included in “Other liabilities” (33,978) (32,688) (306) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 52,160,289 ¥ 50,694,528 $ 469,955 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 111 4. SECURITIES (1) Securities Securities as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Stocks and investments in capital1 ¥353,933 ¥247,369 $3,189 Japanese government bonds2 96,397,982 102,339,666 868,529 Japanese local government bonds 13,908,380 14,918,774 125,312 Japanese corporate bonds 15,358,784 16,189,271 138,380 Other2 69,628,027 65,667,935 627,336 Total ¥195,647,107 ¥199,363,017 $1,762,745 Notes: 1. Stocks and investments in capital include investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥15,521 million ($140 million) and ¥15,382 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 2. Unsecured and secured loaned securities for which borrowers have the right to sell or pledge in the amount of ¥1,887,211 million ($17,003 million) and ¥11,911,005 million were included in Japanese government bonds and other in “Securities” as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Unsecured borrowed securities, securities borrowed under resale agreements and securities borrowed with cash collateral, etc. for which the Group has the right to sell or pledge amounted to nil and ¥131,681 million for pledged securities, and ¥8,522,183 million ($76,783 million) and ¥11,903,620 million for securities held at the end of the fiscal year without being sold or pledged as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (2) Policy-Reserve-Matching Bonds The consolidated balance sheet amount and fair value of policy-reserve-matching bonds as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Consolidated balance sheet amount ¥ 10,570,049 ¥ 10,676,330 $ 95,234 Fair value 11,724,384 11,769,615 105,635  The outline of the risk management policy of policy-reserve-matching bonds is as follows:  The insurance subsidiary categorizes its insurance products into the sub-groups below based on the attributes of each product in order to manage risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates of assets and liabilities, and adopts the management policy whereby the duration gap between policy-reserve-matching bonds and policy reserves by sub-groups are reconciled within a certain range and the duration gap is periodically checked. ・ Postal Life Insurance Contracts (insurance policies with a remaining period within 30 years for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and within 20 years for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) ・ Japan Post Insurance life insurance contracts (general) (all insurance policies) ・ Japan Post Insurance life insurance contracts (lump-sum payment annuity) (excluding some insurance types)  The remaining period of insurance policies comprising the sub-group Postal Life Insurance Contracts used to be within 20 years, but has been changed to within 30 years from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, as the issuance of 30and 40-year Japanese government bonds has expanded to facilitate duration gap adjustment of long-term insurance contracts. This change has no impact on profit or loss. (3) Fair Value Information on Securities and Policy-Reserve-Matching Bonds  The amounts shown in the following tables include negotiable certificates of deposit included in “Cash and due from banks”, and “Monetary claims bought”, in addition to “Securities”. 1) Held-to-maturity bonds Millions of Yen 2019 Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds ¥ 53,193,355 ¥ 60,167,232 ¥ 6,973,876 ¥ 6,974,114 ¥ (238) Japanese local government bonds 6,450,184 6,783,423 333,239 333,320 (81) Japanese corporate bonds 3,859,903 4,061,791 201,888 202,031 (143) Other 130,433 136,766 6,333 6,333 — Total ¥ 63,633,877 ¥ 71,149,214 ¥ 7,515,337 ¥ 7,515,800 ¥ (463) Millions of Yen 2018 Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds ¥ 58,393,875 ¥ 64,978,047 ¥ 6,584,172 ¥ 6,620,087 ¥ (35,915) Japanese local government bonds 6,847,288 7,199,958 352,669 355,924 (3,254) Japanese corporate bonds 4,577,427 4,752,532 175,105 177,530 (2,425) Other 130,433 140,737 10,304 10,304 — Total ¥ 69,949,024 ¥ 77,071,276 ¥ 7,122,251 ¥ 7,163,847 ¥ (41,595) 112 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds $ 479,263 $ 542,096 $ 62,833 $ 62,836 $ (2) Vision Japanese local government bonds 58,115 61,117 3,002 3,003 (1) Japanese corporate bonds 34,777 36,596 1,819 1,820 (1) Other 1,175 1,232 57 57 — Total $ 573,330 $ 641,042 $ 67,712 $ 67,716 $ (4) 2) Policy-reserve-matching bonds Millions of Yen 2019 Enhancing Corporate Value Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds ¥9,429,778 ¥ 10,520,296 ¥ 1,090,518 ¥ 1,091,024 ¥ (506) Japanese local government bonds 552,443 580,239 27,795 27,825 (29) Japanese corporate bonds 587,826 623,848 36,021 36,033 (12) Total ¥10,570,049 ¥ 11,724,384 ¥ 1,154,334 ¥ 1,154,883 ¥ (548) Millions of Yen 2018 Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference Medium-term Strategy sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds ¥9,884,662 ¥ 10,942,829 ¥ 1,058,167 ¥ 1,068,439 ¥ (10,271) Japanese local government bonds 561,453 587,254 25,801 26,148 (346) Japanese corporate bonds 230,214 239,531 9,316 9,316 (0) Total ¥10,676,330 ¥ 11,769,615 ¥ 1,093,285 ¥ 1,103,904 ¥ (10,618) Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Amount for which fair Amount for which fair March 31 Consolidated balance value exceeds value does not Fair value Difference sheet amount consolidated balance exceed consolidated sheet amount balance sheet amount Japanese government bonds $ 84,961 $94,786 $9,825 $9,830 $ (5) Sustainability Japanese local government bonds 4,977 5,228 250 251 (0) Japanese corporate bonds 5,296 5,621 325 325 (0) Total $ 95,234 $105,635 $10,400 $10,405 $ (5) 3) Available-for-sale securities Millions of Yen 2019 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Stocks ¥323,246 ¥325,034 ¥(1,787) ¥17,653 ¥(19,440) Data Compilation Bonds 51,591,653 50,224,768 1,366,884 1,369,755 (2,870) Japanese government bonds 33,774,848 32,597,283 1,177,564 1,177,651 (87) Japanese local government 6,905,751 6,850,935 54,816 55,184 (368) bonds Japanese short-term corporate 220,998 220,998 — — — bonds Japanese corporate bonds 10,690,055 10,555,551 134,504 136,919 (2,414) Other 69,388,063 68,379,981 1,008,082 1,453,771 (445,688) Of which: foreign bonds 27,013,884 26,191,986 821,897 1,122,115 (300,217) Of which: investment trusts 41,230,438 41,048,500 181,938 327,388 (145,450) Total ¥121,302,964 ¥118,929,784 ¥2,373,179 ¥2,841,179 ¥(468,000) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 113 Millions of Yen 2018 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Stocks ¥221,526 ¥209,300 ¥12,225 ¥15,981 ¥(3,756) Bonds 52,952,790 51,645,706 1,307,084 1,336,433 (29,348) Japanese government bonds 34,061,129 32,940,041 1,121,087 1,129,996 (8,909) Japanese local government 7,510,032 7,450,152 59,880 66,018 (6,137) bonds Japanese short-term corporate 229,998 229,998 — — — bonds Japanese corporate bonds 11,151,630 11,025,514 126,116 140,418 (14,301) Other 66,008,125 65,372,081 636,043 1,422,609 (786,566) Of which: foreign bonds 24,349,410 23,965,582 383,828 1,017,858 (634,030) Of which: investment trusts 40,702,353 40,449,321 253,032 401,750 (148,718) Total ¥119,182,442 ¥117,227,088 ¥1,955,353 ¥2,775,025 ¥(819,671) Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Stocks $2,912 $2,928 $(16) $159 $(175) Bonds 464,832 452,516 12,315 12,341 (26) Japanese government bonds 304,305 293,696 10,610 10,610 (1) Japanese local government 62,220 61,726 494 497 (3) bonds Japanese short-term corporate 1,991 1,991 — — — bonds Japanese corporate bonds 96,315 95,104 1,212 1,234 (22) Other 625,174 616,091 9,083 13,098 (4,016) Of which: foreign bonds 243,390 235,985 7,405 10,110 (2,705) Of which: investment trusts 371,479 369,840 1,639 2,950 (1,310) Total $1,092,918 $1,071,536 $21,382 $25,599 $(4,217) 4) Held-to-maturity bonds sold for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 There were no held-to-maturity bonds sold for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 5) Policy-reserve-matching bonds sold for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 There were no policy-reserve-matching bonds sold for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 6) Available-for-sale securities sold for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Millions of Yen 2019 Year ended March 31 Sales Gains Losses Stocks ¥116,978 ¥7,773 ¥ (11,685) Bonds 1,654,705 8,831 (2,898) Japanese government bonds 1,516,682 7,495 — Japanese local government bonds 23,572 27 — Japanese corporate bonds 114,449 1,308 (2,898) Other 1,992,836 35,106 (75,561) Of which: foreign bonds 1,643,650 32,032 (69,858) Of which: investment trusts 349,185 3,074 (5,703) Total ¥3,764,519 ¥51,712 ¥ (90,145) Millions of Yen 2018 Year ended March 31 Sales Gains Losses Stocks ¥38,459 ¥4,908 ¥(1,152) Bonds 1,277,587 5,938 (6,353) Japanese government bonds 1,258,985 5,937 (5,910) Japanese local government bonds ­— — — Japanese corporate bonds 18,602 1 (442) Other 3,360,306 41,037 (101,363) Of which: foreign bonds 3,055,360 40,763 (79,537) Of which: investment trusts 304,945 274 (21,826) Total ¥4,676,353 ¥51,885 ¥(108,869) 114 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Year ended March 31 Sales Gains Losses Stocks $1,054 $70 $ (105) Bonds 14,909 80 (26) Japanese government bonds 13,665 68 — Vision Japanese local government bonds 212 0 — Japanese corporate bonds 1,031 12 (26) Other 17,955 316 (681) Of which: foreign bonds 14,809 289 (629) Of which: investment trusts 3,146 28 (51) Total $33,918 $466 $ (812) 7) Securities incurred impairment losses For the securities (excluding trading securities) with market quotations, and in case whose fair value declines significantly from their acquisition Enhancing Corporate Value cost, with no prospect of recovering to their acquisition cost, the Company records the fair value of such securities on the consolidated balance sheet and charges valuation differences as losses in the fiscal year in which they are recognized. Impairment losses amounted to ¥8,063 million ($73 million) and nil for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (4) Money Held in Trust 1) Money Held in Trust Classified as Trading Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Valuation gains (losses) included in the Consolidated balance sheet amount consolidated statements of income for the current fiscal year Money held in trust classified as trading ¥ 39,290 ¥ (3) Millions of Yen Medium-term Strategy 2018 March 31 Valuation gains (losses) included in the Consolidated balance sheet amount consolidated statements of income for the current fiscal year Money held in trust classified as trading ¥ 79,273 ¥ (370) Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Valuation gains (losses) included in the Consolidated balance sheet amount consolidated statements of income for the current fiscal year Money held in trust classified as trading $ 354 $ (0) 2) Money Held in Trust Classified as Other than Trading or Held-to-Maturity Sustainability Millions of Yen 2019 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Money held in trust classified as other than trading or held-to¥ 6,313,068 ¥ 4,796,958 ¥ 1,516,109 ¥ 1,589,719 ¥ (73,609) maturity Millions of Yen Data Compilation 2018 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Money held in trust classified as other than trading or held-to¥ 6,818,229 ¥ 5,012,583 ¥ 1,805,646 ¥ 1,848,301 ¥ (42,654) maturity JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 115 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Amount for which Amount for which March 31 Consolidated balance consolidated balance consolidated balance Cost Difference sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount does exceeds cost not exceed cost Money held in trust classified as other than trading or held-to$ 56,880 $ 43,220 $ 13,660 $ 14,323 $ (663) maturity Notes: 1. F or securities with market quotations included as trust assets in “Money Held in Trust Classified as Other than Trading or Held-to-Maturity”, and in case whose fair value declines significantly from their acquisition cost, with no prospect of recovering to their acquisition cost, the Company records the fair value of such securities on the consolidated balance sheet and charges valuation differences as losses in the fiscal year in which they are recognized. Impairment losses amounted to ¥14,434 million ($130 million) and ¥1,650 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Notes: 2. “Money held in trust classified as other than trading or held-to-maturity” include investment in non-consolidated subsidiaries of ¥19,680 million ($177 million) and ¥8,150 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 5. ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL Assets pledged as collateral as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Assets pledged as collateral: Cash and due from banks ¥10 ¥— $ 0 Securities 17,536,796 19,887,925 158,003 Liabilities corresponding to assets pledged as collateral: Deposits 1,265,494 1,982,813 11,402 Payables under repurchase agreements 11,569,371 1,932,490 104,238 Payables under securities lending transactions 5,896,268 17,396,513 53,124 Other liabilities 3,980 2,400 36  In addition to the above, the following assets are pledged as collateral for the settlement accounts of Bank of Japan overdrafts, exchange settlement transactions, or derivative transactions and other transactions, and substituted for margins for future transactions as of March 31, 2019 and 2018: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Assets pledged as collateral: Cash and due from banks ¥30 ¥30 $0 Securities 1,686,972 682,296 15,199  “Other assets” include margins for future transactions, guarantee deposits, margins with central counterparty and cash collateral paid for financial instruments as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Other assets: Margins for future transactions ¥ 146,257 ¥ 139,092 $ 1,318 Guarantee deposits 17,116 15,703 154 Margins with central counterparty 647,946 511,672 5,838 Cash collateral paid for financial instruments 28,966 38,953 261 6. LOANS Risk management loans as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen March 31 Dollars 2019 2018 2019 Loans to bankrupt borrowers ¥— ¥— $— Non-accrual delinquent loans — 0 — Past-due loans for three months or more — — — Restructured loans — — — Total ¥— ¥0 $— Note: The above loan amounts are stated before deduction of reserve for possible loan losses.  Contracts of overdraft facilities and loan commitments are contracts with customers to lend funds up to a certain limit agreed in advance. The banking subsidiary will make the loans upon the request of an obligor to draw down funds under such loan agreements, unless any terms or conditions stipulated in the relevant loan agreement are violated. The amounts of unused commitments on loans of the banking subsidiary as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Amount of unused commitments on loans ¥ 16,997 ¥ 19,364 $ 153 Of which: unused commitments with a term of less than one year or that — — — may be cancelled unconditionally at any point of time 116  In many cases, the term of the agreement runs its course without the loan ever being drawn down. Therefore, the unused amount will not necessarily affect future cash flows of the banking subsidiary. Conditions are included in certain loan agreements that allow the banking subsidiary to decline the request for a loan draw-down when there is due cause to do so, such as when there is a change in financial condition or when it is necessary to protect the banking subsidiary’s credit. At the inception of contracts, the banking subsidiary has the obligor pledge collateral to the banking subsidiary in the form of real estate, securities, etc., if considered to be necessary. Subsequently, the banking subsidiary reviews the obligor’s financial condition in accordance with the banking subsidiary’s established internal procedures and takes necessary measures to protect its credit. The amounts of unused commitments on loans of the insurance subsidiary as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Vision Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Amount of unused commitments on loans ¥ 14,751 ¥ 3,000 $ 133 7.TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS (1) Accumulated Depreciation Accumulated depreciation as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 Enhancing Corporate Value 2019 2018 2019 Accumulated depreciation ¥ 1,426,018 ¥ 1,335,371 $ 12,848 (2) Deferred Gains on Tangible Fixed Assets Not Recognized for Tax Purposes Deferred gains on tangible fixed assets not recognized for tax purposes as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Deferred gains on tangible fixed assets not recognized for tax purposes ¥ 89,044 ¥ 63,221 $ 802 Of which, deferred during the fiscal year 31,602 150 285 (3) Real Estate for Rent The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries own office buildings (including land), commercial buildings and others for rental purposes in Tokyo and other areas. Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 Medium-term Strategy 2019 2018 2019 Net rent income (losses)1 ¥ 11,272 ¥ 10,342 $ 102 Net gains (losses) on sales2 5 2,829 0 Losses on impairment3 8,180 8,533 74 Other losses3 239 1,201 2 Notes: 1. Majority of rent income is recorded under other income, and majority of rent expenses are recorded under depreciation and amortization. 2. Gains on sales are recorded under other income, and losses on sales are recorded under other expenses. 3. Losses on impairment and other losses are recorded under other expenses.  The consolidated balance sheet amount, net change during the fiscal year and fair value of real estate for rent were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Consolidated balance sheet amount1 Sustainability Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 479,460 ¥ 483,204 $ 4,320 Net change during the fiscal year (7,825) (3,743) (71) Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 471,634 ¥ 479,460 $ 4,249 Fair value at the end of the fiscal year2 ¥ 618,477 ¥ 572,762 $ 5,572 Notes: 1. The consolidated balance sheet amount represents acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and accumulated losses on impairment. 2. The fair value is calculated primarily based on the real estate appraisal standard. 3. Real estate for rent under construction is not included in the above table since it is extremely difficult to determine its fair value. The consolidated balance sheet amounts were ¥126,895 million ($1,143 million) and ¥38,701 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 8. REINSURANCE Reserve for outstanding claims for reinsured part defined in Article 71, Paragraph 1 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act, Data Compilation which is referred to in Article 73, Paragraph 3 of the said Ordinance were ¥454 million ($4 million) and ¥515 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Policy reserves for reinsured part defined in Article 71, Paragraph 1 of the said Ordinance were ¥985 million ($9 million) and ¥946 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 9. OBLIGATIONS TO THE LIFE INSURANCE POLICYHOLDERS PROTECTION CORPORATION OF JAPAN The insurance subsidiary estimated future contributions to the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation in the amounts of ¥33,174 million ($299 million) and ¥31,569 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, pursuant to Article 259 of the Insurance Business Act. These obligations are recognized as operating expenses when they are paid. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 117 10. RESERVE FOR POLICYHOLDER DIVIDENDS Changes in reserve for policyholder dividends for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 1,622,889 ¥ 1,772,565 $ 14,622 Policyholder dividends paid (220,769) (267,178) (1,989) Interest accrual, etc. 7 7 0 Reduction due to the acquisition of additional annuity (300) (297) (3) Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends 111,806 117,792 1,007 Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 1,513,634 ¥ 1,622,889 $ 13,638 11. BORROWINGS, LEASE OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL PAPERS Borrowings and lease obligations as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Average interest rate1 Due March 31 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 Borrowings ¥ 281,021 ¥ 239,344 $ 2,532 2.17% April 2019 December 2021 Lease obligations 19,817 20,624 179 —2 April 2019 March 2040 Notes: 1. The interest rates above are calculated using the weighted-average method based on the interest rate and balance at the fiscal year-end date. 2. The average interest rate of lease obligations is not presented above because interest included in the total amount of lease payments is allocated to each period using the straight-line method in certain consolidated subsidiaries. 3. Borrowings and lease obligations are included in “Other liabilities” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  The repayment schedule on borrowings as of March 31, 2019 was as follows: March 31 Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Within 1 year ¥ 205,261 $ 1,849 Due after 1 year through 2 years 60,074 541 Due after 2 years through 3 years 15,685 141 Due after 3 years through 4 years — — Due after 4 years through 5 years — — Thereafter — — Total ¥ 281,021 $ 2,532  The repayment schedule on lease obligations as of March 31, 2019 was as follows: March 31 Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Within 1 year ¥1,564 $14 Due after 1 year through 2 years 1,361 12 Due after 2 years through 3 years 1,165 10 Due after 3 years through 4 years 1,028 9 Due after 4 years through 5 years 903 8 Thereafter 13,795 124 Total ¥19,817 $179  Commercial papers issued as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 to procure funds for operating activities were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Average interest rate Due March 31 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 Commercial papers ¥ 28,029 ¥ 191,481 $ 253 0.85% April 2019 June 2019 12. BONDS Bonds as of March 31, 2019 were as follows: Issuer Description Issue Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Interest rate Due First series of subordinated Japan Post Insurance unsecured bonds with interest January 29, January 29, ¥ 100,000 $ 901 1.00% Co., Ltd. deferral option and early 2019 2049 redemption option Total ¥ 100,000 $ 901 Notes: 1. The above bonds are subordinated bonds with the special provisions that subordinate the fulfillment of obligations on the bonds to all other debt obligations. 2.No collateral was provided for the above bonds. 3.Interest rate from the day immediately following January 29, 2029, shall be 6-month Euroyen LIBOR plus 1.78%.  The repayment schedule on borrowings as of March 31, 2019 was as follows: March 31 Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Within 1 year ¥— $— Due after 1 year through 2 years — — Due after 2 years through 3 years — — Due after 3 years through 4 years — — Due after 4 years through 5 years — — Thereafter 100,000 901 Total ¥100,000 $901 There were no bonds as of March 31, 2018. 118 13. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS (1) Outline of Asset Retirement Obligations The Group recorded asset retirement obligations with respect to asbestos removal costs during demolition of the Company’s and subsidiaries’ buildings, and restoration costs based on the real estate lease contracts of their business locations, company-owned housing and others.  The Group’s network, comprised mainly of post offices, is required under the Postal Service Privatization Act to be maintained without fail from the perspective of public services provision. Therefore, restoration costs based on the real estate lease contracts related to facilities essential to the said network maintenance are recorded as asset retirement obligations only when their settlements are clearly expected due to reasons such as planned contract termination. Vision (2) Calculation Method of Asset Retirement Obligations The Group calculated the asset retirement obligations by estimating the period of service between 6 months and 47 years and applying discount rates ranging from 0.0% to 3.0%. (3) Changes in Asset Retirement Obligations Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 21,630 ¥ 15,576 $ 195 Obligations incurred due to acquisition of tangible fixed assets 1,518 268 14 Enhancing Corporate Value Time progress adjustments 49 33 0 Obligations settled (573) (1,770) (5) Other1 5,430 7,522 49 Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 28,055 ¥ 21,630 $ 253 Note: 1. “Other” includes an increasing cost recognized as asset retirement obligations primarily due to the change in estimates of the removal costs for the future demolition of the assets. 14. RETIREMENT BENEFITS (1) Outline of Retirement Benefits The Company and major consolidated subsidiaries have lump-sum severance indemnity plans as a defined benefit plan. Certain consolidated subsidiaries adopt the simplified method in calculating their retirement benefit obligations. Under the simplified method, the amount to be required for voluntary termination at the fiscal year-end is recorded as projected benefit obligations. The charges concerning share of public service pension and share of another public service pension (as defined in Note 2(14)) are included in the Company’s retirement benefit obligations. Medium-term Strategy  The Company has established retirement benefit trusts for the share of public service pension and share of another public service pension.  Certain consolidated subsidiaries have defined contribution pension plans. In addition, the amounts required to be contributed to the retirement pension benefit plans by the Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries based on the “Act for Partial Amendment of National Government Officials’ Retirement Allowance Act, etc. for the Purposes of Reviewing Benefit Levels of the Retirement Benefits for National Government Officials” (Act No. 96 of 2012), which was introduced from October 2015 as a new type of pension subsequent to the abolition of the specified occupation portion of the mutual aid pension program, were ¥10,886 million ($98 million) and ¥10,893 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (2) Defined Benefit Plans 1) Changes in retirement benefit obligations Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 2,697,454 ¥ 2,779,280 $ 24,304 Service cost 118,274 120,230 1,066 Interest cost 17,058 17,398 154 Sustainability Actuarial differences (6,993) (11,954) (63) Benefits paid (200,771) (207,441) (1,809) Other (458) (59) (4) Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 2,624,564 ¥ 2,697,454 $ 23,647 2) Changes in plan assets Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 484,731 ¥ 535,821 $ 4,367 Expected return on plan assets 1,107 1,246 10 Actuarial differences 2,012 479 18 Data Compilation Contributions paid by the employer 242 243 2 Benefits paid (49,277) (53,059) (444) Other (311) — (3) Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 438,504 ¥ 484,731 $ 3,951 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 119 3) Balance of retirement benefit obligations, plan assets and liability (asset) for retirement benefits Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen March 31 Dollars 2019 2018 2019 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥388,477 ¥441,248 $ 3,500 Share of public service pension 381,700 433,411 3,439 Share of another public service pension 512 666 5 Corporate pension plan 6,264 7,170 56 Plan assets (438,504) (484,731) (3,951) Share of public service pension (430,791) (475,838) (3,881) Share of another public service pension (326) (454) (3) Corporate pension plan (7,387) (8,438) (67) (50,027) (43,482) (451) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 2,236,087 2,256,205 20,147 Lump-sum severance indemnity 2,236,087 2,256,205 20,147 Net liability (asset) for retirement benefits ¥2,186,059 ¥2,212,723 $19,696 Liability for retirement benefits ¥2,236,273 ¥2,256,418 $20,148 Asset for retirement benefits (50,214) (43,694) (452) Net liability (asset) for retirement benefits ¥2,186,059 ¥2,212,723 $19,696 4) Retirement benefit costs Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen Years ended March 31 Dollars 2019 2018 2019 Service cost ¥118,274 ¥120,230 $1,066 Interest cost 17,058 17,398 154 Expected return on plan assets (1,107) (1,246) (10) Amortization of actuarial differences (21,873) (24,150) (197) Amortization of prior service cost (28,410) (28,701) (256) Other 1,000 4 9 Total ¥84,942 ¥83,535 $ 765 5) Adjustments for retirement benefits (before tax effect) Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Prior service cost ¥ (28,410) ¥ (28,640) $ (256) Actuarial differences (12,867) (11,717) (116) Total ¥ (41,278) ¥ (40,357) $ (372) 6) Accumulated adjustments for retirement benefits (before tax effect) Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Unrecognized prior service cost ¥ 170,641 ¥ 198,883 $ 1,537 Unrecognized actuarial differences 87,044 99,779 784 Total ¥ 257,685 ¥ 298,662 $ 2,322 7) Plan assets March 31 2019 2018 Bonds 85% 89% Stocks 0 0 Life insurance general account 0 0 Other 15 11 Total 100% 100% Note: Total plan assets are comprised 98% of retirement benefit trusts as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which were set up for share of public service pension and share of another public service pension.  Current and target asset allocations, current and expected returns on various categories of plan assets have been taken into consideration in determining the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets. 8) Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Years ended March 31 2019 2018 Discount rate 0.2% 0.7% 0.2% 0.7% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets 0.1% 2.0% 0.1% 2.0% 120 (3) Defined Contribution Plans The amounts required to be contributed to the defined contribution plans by certain consolidated subsidiaries were ¥14,977 million ($135 million) and ¥13,986 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 15. RESERVES RELATED TO REINSURANCE CONTRACTS Policy reserves, excluding contingency reserve, related to reinsurance contracts with the Management Organization for Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance (The name of the organization was changed to “Organization for Postal Savings, Postal Life Insurance and Post Office Network” on April 1, 2019), are provided at amounts calculated based on the statement of calculation procedures for the insurance subsidiary’s insurance premiums Vision and policy reserves. Such amount is set not to fall below the amount calculated based on the statement of calculation procedures for the Postal Life Insurance policy reserves in accordance with the Act on the Management Organization for Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance (Act No. 101 of 2005). In addition, contingency reserve and reserve for price fluctuations are provided for this category of reinsurance.  The policy reserves, excluding contingency reserve, contingency reserve and reserve for price fluctuations provided for this category of reinsurance as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Policy reserves (excluding contingency reserve) ¥35,566,089 ¥38,351,137 $320,444 Enhancing Corporate Value Contingency reserve 1,491,491 1,665,082 13,438 Reserve for price fluctuations ¥661,836 ¥665,523 $ 5,963 16. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen March 31 Dollars 2019 2018 2019 Deferred tax assets: Liability for retirement benefits ¥796,783 ¥818,966 $7,179 Policy reserves 918,790 832,310 8,278 Reserve for outstanding claims 44,069 44,659 397 Medium-term Strategy Reserve for bonuses 37,509 38,757 338 Reserve for price fluctuations 208,438 207,552 1,878 Deferred losses on hedges 27,525 1 248 Tax losses carried forward* 256,727 263,274 2,313 Other 192,029 205,527 1,730 Subtotal deferred tax assets 2,481,873 2,411,050 22,361 Valuation allowance for tax losses carried forward* (256,296) — (2,309) Valuation allowance for deductible temporary differences (827,325) — (7,454) Total valuation allowance (1,083,621) (1,107,330) (9,763) Total deferred tax assets 1,398,252 1,303,720 12,598 Deferred tax liabilities: Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities (1,294,114) (1,364,938) (11,660) Unrealized gains on assets and liabilities of the consolidated (7,581) (8,583) (68) Sustainability subsidiaries Other (26,784) (27,911) (241) Total deferred tax liabilities (1,328,481) (1,401,432) (11,969) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥69,770 ¥(97,712) $629  * Amounts of tax losses carried forward and its deferred tax assets by expiration periods were as follows: Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Due after 1 Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Due after Within 1 year year through years through years through years through Total 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Tax losses Data Compilation ¥8,973 ¥8,436 ¥453 ¥5,436 ¥4,842 ¥228,584 ¥256,727 carried forward1 Valuation (8,694) (8,330) (447) (5,436) (4,842) (228,545) (256,296) allowance Deferred tax ¥279 ¥106 ¥6 ¥— ¥— ¥38 ¥431 assets Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Due after 1 Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Due after Within 1 year year through years through years through years through Total 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Tax losses $81 $76 $4 $49 $44 $2,060 $2,313 carried forward1 Valuation (78) (75) (4) (49) (44) (2,059) (2,309) allowance Deferred tax $3 $1 $0 $— $— $0 $4 assets Note: 1. Tax losses carried forward is after multiplying the statutory tax rate. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 121 (Changes in presentation) (Changes associated with the adoption of “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting”) The Company adopted “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018; hereinafter referred to as “Statement No. 28”) from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. The notes related to tax effect accounting additionally included those described in notes 8 (excluding total amount of valuation allowance) and 9 of “Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting”, which are required in paragraphs 3 to 5 of Statement No. 28. However, this additional information corresponding to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 is not disclosed, in accordance with the transitional treatments prescribed in paragraph 7 of Statement No. 28.   The Company and its domestic subsidiaries are subject to Japanese national and local income taxes, which, in aggregate, would result in a statutory tax rate of approximately 30.6% and 30.9% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Reconciliation of the effective income tax rate reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of income to the statutory tax rate for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows: Years ended March 31 2019 2018 Statutory tax rate 30.6% 30.9% Income not taxable for income tax purposes (e.g. non-taxable dividend income) (0.8) (0.4) Changes in valuation allowance (5.0) (3.1) Other 0.0 0.5 Effective income tax rate 24.9% 27.8% 17. NET ASSETS (1) Type and Number of Shares Authorized and Issued Thousands of shares Year ended March 31, 2019 April 1, 2018 Increase Decrease March 31, 2019 Shares authorized: Common stock 18,000,000 — — 18,000,000 Shares issued: Common stock 4,500,000 — — 4,500,000 Thousands of shares Year ended March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017 Increase Decrease March 31, 2018 Shares authorized: Common stock 18,000,000 — — 18,000,000 Shares issued: Common stock 4,500,000 — — 4,500,000 (2) Type and Number of Treasury Stock Thousands of shares Year ended March 31, 2019 April 1, 20181 Increase2 Decrease2 March 31, 20191 Treasury stock: Common stock 456,837 — 41 456,796 Notes: 1. The number of treasury stock at the beginning of the fiscal year includes the shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust of 698 thousand shares. The number of treasury stock at the end of the fiscal year includes the shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust of 656 thousand shares. 2. A decrease of 41 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the benefits paid of the shares of the Company by the management board benefit trust. Thousands of shares Year ended March 31, 2018 April 1, 20171 Increase2 Decrease2 March 31, 20181 Treasury stock: Common stock 384,037 72,833 33 456,837 Notes: 1. The number of treasury stock at the beginning of the fiscal year includes the shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust of 731 thousand shares. The number of treasury stock at the end of the fiscal year includes the shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust of 698 thousand shares. 2. An increase of 72,833 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the purchase of 72,833 thousand shares of the Company based on the resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting held on September 11, 2017 and the purchase of 0 thousand fractional shares. A decrease of 33 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the benefits paid of the shares of the Company by the management board benefit trust. (3) Information on Dividends Dividends from retained earnings require approval from the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications pursuant to the provisions of Article 11 of the Act on Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. 122 1) Dividends paid Dividends paid for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Total amount Per share Class of Total amount Per share Resolution (Millions of amount Record date Effective date shares (Millions of Yen) amount (Yen) U.S. Dollars) (U.S. Dollars) Board of Directors’ meeting held on Common stock ¥ 129,403 $1,166 ¥ 32.00 $ 0.29 March 31,2018 June 21, 2018 Vision May 15, 20181 Board of Directors’ September December 6, meeting held on Common stock ¥ 101,096 $911 ¥ 25.00 $ 0.23 30, 2018 2018 November 14, 20182 Notes: 1. The total amount of dividends resolved by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 15, 2018 includes dividends of ¥22 million ($0 million) for the Company’s shares held by the management board benefit trust. Per share amount includes a special dividend of ¥7.00 ($0.06). 2. The total amount of dividends resolved by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on November 14, 2018 includes dividends of ¥16 million ($0 million) for the Company’s shares held by the management board benefit trust. Enhancing Corporate Value Dividends paid for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Total amount Per share amount Resolution Class of shares Record date Effective date (Millions of Yen) (Yen) Board of Directors’ meeting Common stock ¥ 102,917 ¥ 25.00 March 31, 2017 June 23, 2017 held on May 15, 2017 Board of Directors’ meeting Common stock ¥ 101,096 ¥ 25.00 September 30, 2017 December 6, 2017 held on November 14, 20172 Note: 1. The total amount of dividends resolved by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 15, 2017 includes dividends of ¥18 million for the Company’s shares held by the management board benefit trust. 2. The total amount of dividends resolved by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on November 14, 2017 includes dividends of ¥18 million for the Company’s shares held by the management board benefit trust. Medium-term Strategy 2) Dividends whose effective date falls after the end of the fiscal year Dividends whose effective date falls after the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Total amount1 Total amount Per share Source of Per share Record Effective Resolution Class of shares (Millions of (Millions of amount dividends amount (Yen) date date Yen) U.S. Dollars) (U.S. Dollars) Board of Directors’ Retained March 31, June 20, meeting held on Common stock ¥ 101,096 $ 911 ¥ 25.00 $ 0.23 earnings 2019 2019 May 15, 2019 Notes: 1. The total amount of dividends includes dividends of ¥16 million ($0 million) for the Company’s shares held by the management board benefit trust. 18. INACTIVE DEPOSITS “Banking business income” for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included income from derecognition of inactive deposits recorded by the banking subsidiary, and “Other expenses” for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included provision for reserve for reimbursement of deposits by the banking subsidiary. The respective amounts were as follows: Sustainability Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen Years ended March 31 Dollars 2019 2018 2019 Income from derecognition of inactive deposits ¥ 20,270 ¥ 144,679 $ 183 Provision for reserve for reimbursement of deposits 10,771 84,473 97 19. OTHER INCOME Other income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Gains on sales of fixed assets1 ¥ 7,230 ¥ 88,182 $ 65 Data Compilation Gains on negative goodwill — 568 — Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations 19,251 — 173 Compensation for transfer 2,345 190 21 Compensation income — 176 — Settlement received — 1,001 — Gains on transfer of business — 2,005 — Other 248,023 248,312 2,235 Total ¥276,850 ¥340,438 $2,494 Note: 1. F  or the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, “Gains on sales of fixed assets” include gains on sales of fixed assets of ¥85,034 million ($800 million) for the transfer of the former Tokyo service center owned by the insurance subsidiary. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 123 20. OTHER EXPENSES Other expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets ¥8,310 ¥4,762 $75 Losses on impairment of fixed assets 12,927 17,964 116 Provision for reserve for price fluctuations1 — 128,031 — Post office refurbishment expenses2 18,315 25,213 165 Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends3 111,806 117,792 1,007 Other 59,522 129,062 536 Total ¥210,882 ¥422,825 $1,900 Notes: 1. “Provision for reserve for price fluctuations” for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 includes the amount corresponding to gains on sales of fixed assets of ¥86,053 million recorded by the insurance subsidiary. 2. In order to prevent further deterioration of facilities and other assets, the Group has invested in construction work and prioritized spending on assets exceeding their economical useful lives and leased post office buildings which require improvements for earthquake resistance. 3. Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends, which is provided for the Management Organization for Postal Savings and Postal Life Insurance (The name of the organization was changed to “Organization for Postal Savings, Postal Life Insurance and Post Office Network” on April 1, 2019) based on gains or losses and others arising in the category of reinsurance due to the reinsurance contracts with the Management Organization, was ¥92,117 million ($830 million) and ¥96,174 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 21. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The components of other comprehensive loss for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: Amount arising during the fiscal year ¥184,216 ¥(346,783) $1,660 Reclassification adjustments (360,184) (334,051) (3,245) Before tax effect adjustments (175,968) (680,834) (1,585) Tax effect 55,055 212,303 496 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (120,913) (468,530) (1,089) Net deferred gains (losses) on hedges: Amount arising during the fiscal year (283,051) (12,406) (2,550) Reclassification adjustments 191,893 186,236 1,729 Adjustments of assets’ acquisition costs (3,120) (1,275) (28) Before tax effect adjustments (94,277) 172,554 (849) Tax effect 28,885 (52,836) 260 Net deferred gains (losses) on hedges (65,392) 119,718 (589) Foreign currency translation adjustments: Amount arising during the fiscal year (3,888) (5,412) (35) Reclassification adjustments — 300 — Before tax effect adjustments (3,888) (5,111) (35) Tax effect — — — Foreign currency translation adjustments (3,888) (5,111) (35) Adjustments for retirement benefits: Amount arising during the fiscal year 9,005 12,495 81 Reclassification adjustments (50,283) (52,852) (453) Before tax effect adjustments (41,278) (40,357) (372) Tax effect 822 813 7 Adjustments for retirement benefits (40,455) (39,544) (364) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of affiliates: Amount arising during the fiscal year (2) 5 (0) Reclassification adjustments (0) — (0) Before tax effect adjustments (2) 5 (0) Tax effect — — — Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of affiliates (2) 5 (0) Total other comprehensive loss ¥(230,651) ¥(393,462) $(2,078) 124 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS by setting limits for market risk and loss so that the amount (1) Policy for Handling Financial Instruments of market risk is kept within an appropriate amount of capital The Group is required to manage financial assets and financial allocation, as determined by taking into account the amount of liabilities owned by the banking subsidiary and insurance the company’s equity capital. subsidiary in order to avoid the negative impact on the stability  The major financial instruments affected by fluctuations in of their financial results resulting from the volatility due to future risk variables (interest rates, foreign exchange and stock prices) interest rate fluctuation and foreign exchange fluctuation, since related to major market risks are call loans, monetary claims these assets and liabilities are generally subject to changes in bought, money held in trust, securities, loans, deposits and Vision value due to fluctuations in market. derivative transactions.  For this purpose, both companies endeavor to properly  The banking subsidiary uses the historical simulation method manage return and risk by using an asset liability management (holding period — 240 business days (equivalent to 1 year); (ALM) framework, under which the companies enter into one-sided confidence interval — 99%; and observation period — derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps, currency 1,200 business days (equivalent to 5 years)). An internal model swaps and forward foreign exchange. is used for measurement for liabilities. The amount of the market  Derivative transactions are identified as a key hedging method risk (estimated loss) as a whole was ¥3,432,080 million ($30,922 against interest rate fluctuation risk and foreign exchange million) and ¥3,542,833 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, fluctuation risk to our investment assets. respectively. The VaR measures the market risk quantity at a Enhancing Corporate Value  In addition, from the viewpoint of increasing profitability, certain probability calculated statistically based on past market both companies also work to invest in risk assets within an fluctuations, and accordingly, it may not be able to capture the acceptable range while at the same time strengthening their risk under certain abnormal market. In order to avoid such risk, risk management structures. sensitivity testing is implemented using various scenarios. (2) Features and Risks of Financial Instruments  Matters related to the design and operation of market risk In the Group, financial assets owned by the banking subsidiary management structures, and implementation of market risk and insurance subsidiary consist mainly of securities such as management are reported and discussed regularly at the risk domestic and foreign bonds, in particular Japanese government management committee, ALM committee, and management bonds, loans, stock investments through money held in trust and meeting. others. Such financial assets are exposed to risks including the  In addition, taking into account features of assets with mainly credit risk of their issuing bodies, interest rate fluctuation risk and Japanese government bonds, etc. and liabilities with mainly market price fluctuation risk. deposits, and recognizing the importance of interest rate risk  From an ALM viewpoint, interest rate swaps are used as a sufficiently, the banking subsidiary implements interest rate risk means of hedging future economic value fluctuation risk and management using a multifaceted approach, whereby profit or Medium-term Strategy interest rate risk of securities, loans, fixed term deposits and loss simulations are carried out based on various scenarios using others for interest rate-related transactions. ALM, and risks are managed.  For currency-related transactions, currency swaps and forward  The policy related with ALM is discussed and determined at foreign exchange are used as a means of hedging foreign the management meeting, and the status of the implementation exchange fluctuation risk in connection with the translation is reported to the ALM committee and management meeting. of foreign currency-denominated assets held by the banking  With respect to derivative transactions, the banking subsidiary and insurance subsidiary and related Japanese yen subsidiary has created separate departments for the execution translation amounts of redemption of principal and interest. of transactions, assessment of hedge effectiveness, and  In hedging risk using derivative transactions, the Group applies administration, and has established an internal control system, hedge accounting for transactions meeting certain prescribed in accordance with its derivative transaction regulations. requirements in order to limit impacts on financial results. B) Insurance subsidiary (3) Risk Management Framework for Financial Instruments The insurance subsidiary categorizes market risk into interest  The Group has a basic policy for group risk management rate risk and market price fluctuation risk for its management. whereby basic principles regarding risk management as well Interest rate risk at the insurance subsidiary is the risk of losses as basic matters for which compliance is mandatory for risk resulting from fluctuation in the value of interest-bearing assets management including risk categories to be managed by Group denominated in Japanese yen and insurance liabilities due to Sustainability companies are prescribed, and risk management is carried out fluctuations in Japanese yen interest rates, and the risk arises on a group basis. because the insurance subsidiary has a limit in matching assets  The status of the risk management at each company is with liabilities, as an insurance company with a mission to offer periodically reported to the management meeting at which universal service products including endowment insurance and the Group’s risk management policies and risk management whole life insurance. Market price fluctuation risk is any market structures are discussed. risk other than interest rate risk.  For risks such as market risk, credit risk and other types of risk,  Among the company-wide risks including the market risk, each company identifies risks that can be quantified and then the insurance subsidiary identifies those that can be quantified uses value at risk (VaR), a measure of the maximum expected and manages the company-wide risks by comparing the capital loss that could occur due to events with a certain probability, and amount and the company-wide integrated risk amount calculated other methods to measure these risks. The Company manages based on the amount of quantified risks. risk by confirming that the amount of risk measured at each 3) Management of liquidity risk related to fund raising activities Data Compilation of these two companies is kept within each company’s equity The banking subsidiary and insurance subsidiary manage liquidity capital. risk related to fund raising activities through the establishment of 1) Credit risk management indexes of fund raising, etc.  The banking subsidiary and insurance subsidiary use the (4) Additional notes concerning the fair value of financial instruments VaR method to quantify and manage credit risk exposure, in The fair value of a financial instrument includes prices based accordance with the respective rules of the companies on credit on market quotations as well as rationally calculated prices. risk management. Moreover, to control credit concentration In calculating prices, certain premises and assumptions are risk, the companies provide credit limits and other criteria for adopted, and the use of different premises and assumptions may individual companies and corporate groups and supervise these lead to changes in pricing. limits during each fiscal year. (5) Fair values of financial instruments 2) Management of market risk Amounts carried on the consolidated balance sheets, fair values A) Banking subsidiary and the difference between them as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 The banking subsidiary invests in domestic and foreign bonds, are as follows. Unlisted stocks and others for which fair values stocks and others based on the policy related with ALM as are extremely difficult to determine are not included in the table a banking business, and these are affected by fluctuations in below. interest rates, foreign exchange, stock price and others. Therefore the banking subsidiary quantitatively measures market risk using VaR, which is a statistical method, based on its market risk management regulations, and monitors and manages risk JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 125 Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Consolidated balance Net unrealized gains Fair value sheet amount (losses) 1) Cash and due from banks ¥52,244,467 ¥52,244,467 ¥— 2) Call loans 550,000 550,000 — 3) Receivables under resale agreements 8,368,139 8,368,139 — 4) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 2,792,202 2,792,202 — 5) Monetary claims bought 650,638 650,638 — 6) Trading account securities 5) Trading securities 2 2 — 7) Money held in trust 6,352,358 6,350,174 (2,184) 8) Securities 7) Held-to-maturity bonds 63,633,877 71,143,567 7,509,690 7) Policy-reserve-matching bonds 10,570,049 11,724,384 1,154,334 7) Stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates 1,181 989 (191) 7) Available-for-sale securities 120,182,325 120,182,325 — 9) Loans 12,083,499 8) Reserve for possible loan losses1 (153) 12,083,345 12,638,890 555,544 Total ¥277,428,589 ¥286,645,783 ¥9,217,194 1) Deposits 179,625,834 179,711,000 85,165 2) Payables under repurchase agreements 11,569,371 11,569,371 — 3) Payables under securities lending transactions 5,896,268 5,896,268 — 4) Commercial papers 28,029 28,029 — 5) Bonds 100,000 100,830 830 Total ¥197,219,504 ¥197,305,500 ¥85,995 Derivative transactions2 Hedge accounting not applied ¥(1,012) ¥(1,012) ¥— Hedge accounting applied (206,906) (206,906) — Total derivative transactions ¥ (207,919) ¥ (207,919) ¥— Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Consolidated balance Net unrealized gains Fair value sheet amount (losses) 1) Cash and due from banks ¥50,782,381 ¥50,782,381 ¥— 2) Call loans 745,000 745,000 — 3) Receivables under resale agreements — — — 4) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 11,520,376 11,520,376 — 5) Monetary claims bought 454,635 454,635 — 6) Trading account securities 5) Trading securities 32 32 — 7) Money held in trust 6,897,503 6,897,503 — 8) Securities 7) Held—to—maturity bonds 69,949,024 77,062,931 7,113,906 7) Policy—reserve—matching bonds 10,676,330 11,769,615 1,093,285 7) Stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates — — — 7) Available—for—sale securities 118,242,806 118,242,806 — 9) Loans 13,772,684 8) Reserve for possible loan losses1 (181) 13,772,503 14,396,369 623,866 Total ¥283,040,593 ¥291,871,652 ¥8,831,058 1) Deposits 178,489,035 178,631,158 142,123 2) Payables under repurchase agreements 1,985,285 1,985,285 — 3) Payables under securities lending transactions 17,475,671 17,475,671 — 4) Commercial papers 191,481 191,481 — 5) Bonds — — — Total ¥198,141,473 ¥198,283,596 ¥142,123 Derivative transactions2 Hedge accounting not applied ¥6,230 ¥6,230 ¥— Hedge accounting applied (19,770) (19,770) — Total derivative transactions ¥ (13,540) ¥ (13,540) ¥— 126 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Consolidated balance Net unrealized gains Fair value sheet amount (losses) 1) Cash and due from banks $470,713 $470,713 $— 2) Call loans 4,955 4,955 — Vision 3) Receivables under resale agreements 75,395 75,395 — 4) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions 25,157 25,157 — 5) Monetary claims bought 5,862 5,862 — 6) Trading account securities 5) Trading securities 0 0 — 7) Money held in trust 57,234 57,214 (20) 8) Securities 7) Held-to-maturity bonds 573,330 640,991 67,661 Enhancing Corporate Value 7) Policy-reserve-matching bonds 95,234 105,635 10,400 7) Stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates 11 9 (2) 7) Available-for-sale securities 1,082,821 1,082,821 — 9) Loans 108,870 8) Reserve for possible loan losses1 (1) 108,869 113,874 5,005 Total $2,499,582 $2,582,627 $83,045 1) Deposits 1,618,397 1,619,164 767 2) Payables under repurchase agreements 104,238 104,238 — 3) Payables under securities lending transactions 53,124 53,124 — 4) Commercial papers 253 253 — 5) Bonds 901 908 7 Medium-term Strategy Total $1,776,912 $1,777,687 $775 Derivative transactions2 Hedge accounting not applied $(9) $(9) $— Hedge accounting applied (1,864) (1,864) — Total derivative transactions $ (1,873) $ (1,873) $— Notes: 1. General reserve for possible loan losses corresponding to loans has been deducted. 2. Derivative transactions recorded in Other assets/Other liabilities are expressed as lump sums. Net receivables and payables arising from derivative transactions are stated at net values, and if the values are negative, they are indicated in parentheses. Additionally, those subject to exceptional treatment for interest rate swaps and the allocation method for forward foreign exchange which requires recognized foreign currency assets or liabilities to be translated using the corresponding foreign exchange contract rates are jointly disclosed with hedged loans and securities. Therefore, their fair values are included in the relevant loans and securities. Calculation method for fair values of financial instruments is as follows: Assets Sustainability 1) Cash and due from banks For funds due from banks with no maturity date, fair value approximates book value, which is therefore used as fair value. For funds due from banks with a maturity date where the contract period is short (within a year), fair value approximates book value, which is therefore used as fair value. 2) Call loans, 3) Receivables under resale agreements and 4) Receivables under securities borrowing transactions Contract tenors are short term (within one year) and their fair values approximate book value, which is therefore used as fair value. 5) Monetary claims bought Pricing offered by the broker and other third parties serves as fair value. 6) Trading account securities The purchase price of the Bank of Japan serves as fair value. 7) Money held in trust For invested securities representing trust assets in money held in trust, the fair value of stocks is based on the price on the stock exchange, etc. Data Compilation and the fair value of bonds is based on the Reference Statistical Prices [Yields] for OTC Bond Transactions published by the Japan Securities Dealers Association. The fair value of derivative transactions is based on the prices provided by information vendors, etc. In addition, the fair value of the loans is based on a price obtained by discounting the total sum of the principal and interest by an interest rate that takes into account of the remaining period and credit risk of each loan.  Notes to money held in trust by categories based on holding purposes are provided in Note 4 (4) “Money Held in Trust”. 8) Securities For fair value of stocks is based on the price on the stock exchange, etc. The fair value of bonds is based on the price quoted by the exchange, the Reference Statistical Prices [Yields] for OTC Bond Transactions published by the Japan Securities Dealers Association, the price calculated using the comparable price method or the price provided by a broker, etc. The fair value of investment trust is based primarily on the funds’ unit price.  Notes to securities by categories based on holding purposes are provided in Note 4 (3) “Fair Value Information on Securities and Policy-ReserveMatching Bonds”. 9) Loans For loans with variable interest rates, which follow market interest rates only over the short-term, fair value approximates book value unless the obligor’s credit standing significantly differs after the transaction. In such cases, book value serves as fair value. For loans with fixed interest rates, fair value is considering a net discounted present value of future cash flows, etc.  For loans that are limited to within a designated percentage of the amount of pledged assets, book values are used as fair values, because their fair values approximate book value based on the loan terms and conditions. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 127 Liabilities 1) Deposits For demand deposits, the payment amount (book value) if demanded on the consolidated balance sheet date is deemed to be the fair value of such demand deposits. For fixed-term deposits, fair value is based on the net discounted present value of estimated future cash flows, following a division into certain periods. The interest rate applicable to new savings is used as the discount rate. 2) Payables under repurchase agreements, 3) Payables under securities lending transactions and 4) Commercial papers Contract tenors are short term (within one year) and their fair values approximate book value, which is therefore used as fair value. 5) Bonds The fair value of bonds is based on the Reference Statistical Prices [Yields] for OTC Bond Transactions published by the Japan Securities Dealers Association. Derivatives Derivatives consist primarily of interest rate-related transactions (interest rate swaps), currency-related transactions (forward foreign exchange and currency swaps), stock-related transactions (stock index futures), bond-related transactions (bond futures) and credit-related transactions (credit default swaps). Fair value is based on the price quoted by the exchange or values obtained from net present value calculations, etc.  The consolidated balance sheet amounts of financial instruments for which fair values are deemed extremely difficult to determine are as shown below; they are not included in “Assets 7) Money held in trust” and “Assets 8) Securities” under information concerning fair values of financial instruments. Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Money held in trust1 ¥425,977 ¥158,895 $3,838 Securities Unlisted stocks2 29,505 25,843 266 Investment trusts3 1,199,338 457,183 10,806 Investments in partnerships4 30,830 11,828 278 Total ¥1,685,651 ¥653,751 $15,187 Notes: 1. Money held in trust, for which underlying assets held by the trust such as investment in private REIT are extremely difficult to determine their fair values, is not included in the scope of fair value disclosures. 2. Unlisted stocks are not included in the scope of fair value disclosures because there are no available market prices and it is extremely difficult to determine their fair values. 3. Investment trusts, for which underlying assets held by the trust such as unlisted stocks are extremely difficult to determine their fair values, are not included in the scope of fair value disclosures. 4. Investments in partnerships are not included in the scope of fair value disclosures because they consist of partnership asset components such as unlisted stocks which are extremely difficult to determine their fair values. Redemption schedule of monetary claims and securities with maturities were as follows: Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Due from banks ¥ 51,214,811 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— Call loans 550,000 — — — — — Receivables under resale agreements 8,368,139 — — — — — Receivables under securities borrowing 2,792,202 — — — — — transactions Monetary claims bought 330,240 35,092 34,295 44,796 41,228 160,774 Securities 17,063,421 31,780,453 33,141,498 9,025,771 20,583,230 39,548,253 Held-to-maturity bonds 5,635,397 12,086,936 13,681,561 2,087,326 6,550,505 23,095,039 Japanese government bonds 4,336,800 9,369,700 11,130,800 1,488,200 5,493,100 20,892,500 Japanese local government bonds 722,700 2,089,165 1,507,606 502,226 453,351 1,162,979 Japanese corporate bonds 543,464 530,071 1,043,155 96,900 604,053 1,039,560 Other 32,433 98,000 — — — — Policy-reserve-matching bonds 1,178,716 1,444,146 1,732,837 549,616 1,757,100 3,672,009 Japanese government bonds 1,119,900 1,355,800 1,507,200 451,400 1,756,800 3,007,100 Japanese local government bonds 54,410 64,313 189,515 77,599 300 165,609 Japanese corporate bonds 4,406 24,033 36,122 20,617 — 499,300 Available-for-sale securities with 10,249,308 18,249,369 17,727,099 6,388,829 12,275,625 12,781,204 maturities Japanese government bonds 3,854,078 7,088,243 9,404,058 1,336,151 5,625,388 4,945,500 Japanese local government bonds 1,182,127 2,028,532 1,419,324 885,625 1,152,130 131,545 Japanese short-term corporate 221,000 — — — — — bonds Japanese corporate bonds 1,655,486 2,709,185 1,866,966 1,082,806 1,306,757 1,906,746 Other 3,336,615 6,423,407 5,036,751 3,084,245 4,191,348 5,797,411 Loans 5,222,694 1,956,026 1,604,632 1,141,738 1,031,976 1,122,244 Total ¥ 85,541,509 ¥ 33,771,572 ¥ 34,780,426 ¥ 10,212,307 ¥ 21,656,434 ¥ 40,831,272 128 Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Due from banks ¥ 49,855,011 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— Call loans 745,000 — — — — — Receivables under resale agreements — — — — — — Vision Receivables under securities borrowing 11,520,376 — — — — — transactions Monetary claims bought 178,784 21,471 36,533 30,696 39,746 144,633 Securities 17,697,566 32,318,753 34,941,735 16,436,338 16,782,137 37,600,450 Held-to-maturity bonds 9,210,676 9,832,998 17,864,830 4,472,581 4,977,522 23,072,436 Japanese government bonds 6,833,245 7,139,400 15,435,000 2,769,500 4,587,400 21,118,900 Japanese local government bonds 1,045,003 1,830,429 1,639,609 1,096,602 59,400 1,170,076 Enhancing Corporate Value Japanese corporate bonds 1,332,428 732,736 790,221 606,479 330,722 783,460 Other — 130,433 — — — — Policy-reserve-matching bonds 584,069 1,595,580 1,832,354 1,363,681 668,200 4,386,900 Japanese government bonds 533,500 1,496,900 1,664,200 1,159,600 667,800 4,118,400 Japanese local government bonds 31,738 79,500 122,873 183,364 400 142,300 Japanese corporate bonds 18,831 19,180 45,281 20,717 — 126,200 Available-for-sale securities with 7,902,820 20,890,174 15,244,550 10,600,075 11,136,415 10,141,113 maturities Japanese government bonds 2,042,669 8,614,117 7,342,930 4,605,766 5,679,154 4,382,100 Japanese local government bonds 933,965 2,441,830 1,497,087 1,039,530 1,445,217 25,314 Japanese short-term corporate 230,000 — — — — — bonds Medium-term Strategy Japanese corporate bonds 1,524,495 3,150,466 2,072,094 1,036,044 1,312,145 1,897,330 Other 3,171,689 6,683,760 4,332,438 3,918,734 2,699,898 3,836,369 Loans 5,871,059 2,568,324 1,733,846 1,271,215 1,127,008 1,194,429 Total ¥ 85,867,797 ¥ 34,908,549 ¥ 36,712,115 ¥ 17,738,250 ¥ 17,948,892 ¥ 38,939,514 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Due from banks $ 461,436 $— $— $— $— $— Call loans 4,955 — — — — — Receivables under resale agreements 75,395 — — — — — Sustainability Receivables under securities borrowing 25,157 — — — — — transactions Monetary claims bought 2,975 316 309 404 371 1,449 Securities 153,738 286,336 298,599 81,321 185,451 356,323 Held-to-maturity bonds 50,774 108,901 123,268 18,806 59,019 208,082 Japanese government bonds 39,074 84,419 100,287 13,408 49,492 188,238 Japanese local government bonds 6,511 18,823 13,583 4,525 4,085 10,478 Japanese corporate bonds 4,897 4,776 9,399 873 5,442 9,366 Other 292 883 — — — — Policy-reserve-matching bonds 10,620 13,011 15,613 4,952 15,831 33,084 Data Compilation Japanese government bonds 10,090 12,216 13,580 4,067 15,828 27,093 Japanese local government bonds 490 579 1,707 699 3 1,492 Japanese corporate bonds 40 217 325 186 — 4,499 Available-for-sale securities with 92,344 164,424 159,718 57,562 110,601 115,156 maturities Japanese government bonds 34,725 63,864 84,729 12,038 50,684 44,558 Japanese local government bonds 10,651 18,277 12,788 7,979 10,380 1,185 Japanese short-term corporate 1,991 — — — — — bonds Japanese corporate bonds 14,916 24,409 16,821 9,756 11,774 17,179 Other 30,062 57,874 45,380 27,788 37,763 52,234 Loans 47,056 17,623 14,457 10,287 9,298 10,111 Total $ 770,714 $ 304,276 $ 313,365 $ 92,011 $ 195,121 $ 367,882 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 129 Redemption schedule of deposits, call money, payables under repurchase agreements, payables under securities lending transactions and commercial papers were as follows: Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Deposits1 ¥91,037,792 ¥ 23,711,100 ¥ 12,211,908 ¥ 13,067,231 ¥ 39,597,802 ¥— Payables under repurchase agreements 11,569,371 — — — — — Payables under securities lending 5,896,268 — — — — — transactions Commercial papers 28,050 — — — — — Bonds — — — — — 100,000 Total ¥108,531,483 ¥ 23,711,100 ¥ 12,211,908 ¥ 13,067,231 ¥ 39,597,802 ¥100,000 Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Deposits1 ¥94,122,785 ¥ 18,879,576 ¥ 16,367,000 ¥ 15,024,088 ¥ 34,095,583 ¥— Payables under repurchase agreements 1,985,285 — — — — — Payables under securities lending 17,475,671 — — — — — transactions Commercial papers 191,869 — — — — — Bonds — — — — — — Total ¥113,775,612 ¥ 18,879,576 ¥ 16,367,000 ¥ 15,024,088 ¥ 34,095,583 ¥— Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Due after 3 Due after 5 Due after 7 Due after 1 year Due after Within 1 year years through 5 years through 7 years through 10 through 3 years 10 years years years years Deposits1 $ 820,234 $ 213,633 $ 110,027 $ 117,733 $ 356,769 $— Payables under repurchase agreements 104,238 — — — — — Payables under securities lending 53,124 — — — — — transactions Commercial papers 253 — — — — — Bonds — — — — — 901 Total $ 977,849 $ 213,633 $ 110,027 $ 117,733 $ 356,769 $ 901 Note: 1. Demand deposits are included in “Within 1 year.” 23. DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS (1) Derivative Transactions to Which the Hedge Accounting Method Is Not Applied The following tables set forth the contract amount or the amount equivalent to the principal, fair value and valuation gains (losses) at the end of the fiscal year by transaction type, and calculation method of fair value with respect to derivative transactions to which the hedge accounting method is not applied. Contract amount does not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. 1) Interest rate-related derivatives Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Interest rate swaps: Receivable fixed rate / Payable floating rate ¥ 191,346 ¥ 191,346 ¥ 9,223 ¥ 9,223 Receivable floating rate / Payable fixed rate 184,465 184,465 (9,577) (9,577) Total ¥(354) ¥(354) Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Interest rate swaps: Receivable fixed rate / Payable floating rate ¥ 21,248 ¥ 21,248 ¥ (2,115) ¥ (2,115) Receivable floating rate / Payable fixed rate 8,711 8,711 1,752 1,752 Total ¥(363) ¥(363) 130 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Interest rate swaps: Vision Receivable fixed rate / Payable floating rate $ 1,724 $ 1,724 $ 83 $ 83 Receivable floating rate / Payable fixed rate 1,662 1,662 (86) (86) Total $(3) $(3) Notes: 1. The above transactions are valued at fair value and the related valuation gains (losses) are accounted for in the consolidated statements of operations. 2. Fair value is calculated using discounted present value. 2) Currency-related derivatives Millions of Yen Enhancing Corporate Value 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Forward foreign exchange: Sold ¥ 449,384 ¥— ¥ (217) ¥ (217) Bought 375,409 — (524) (524) Total ¥ (741) ¥ (741) Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Contract amount Medium-term Strategy Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Forward foreign exchange: Sold ¥ 438,114 ¥— ¥ 9,047 ¥ 9,047 Bought 453,528 — (2,943) (2,943) Total ¥ 6,103 ¥ 6,103 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Sustainability Forward foreign exchange: Sold $ 4,049 $— $ (2) $ (2) Bought 3,382 — (5) (5) Total $ (7) $ (7) Notes: 1. The above transactions are valued at fair value and the related valuation gains (losses) are accounted for in the consolidated statements of income. 2. Fair value is calculated using discounted present value and other methods. 3) Stock-related derivatives Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Data Compilation Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Stock index futures: Sold ¥ 8,033 ¥— ¥ 73 ¥ 73 Total ¥ 73 ¥ 73 Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Stock index futures: Sold ¥ 26,495 ¥— ¥ (230) ¥ (230) Total ¥ (230) ¥ (230) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 131 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Stock index futures: Sold $ 72 $— $1 $1 Total $1 $1 Notes: 1. The above transactions are valued at fair value and the related valuation gains (losses) are accounted for in the consolidated statements of income. 2. Fair value is based on the final price on Osaka Exchange. 4) Bond-related derivatives Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Bond futures: Sold ¥ 106,399 ¥— ¥ (723) ¥ (723) Total ¥ (723) ¥ (723) Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Bond futures: Bought ¥ 15,936 ¥— ¥ 141 ¥ 141 Total ¥ 141 ¥ 141 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Financial instruments exchange transactions Bond futures: Sold $ 959 $— $ (7) $ (7) Total $ (7) $ (7) Notes: 1. The above transactions are valued at fair value and the related valuation gains (losses) are accounted for in the consolidated statements of income. 2. Fair value is based on the final price on Chicago Board of Trade or Osaka Exchange, etc. 5) Credit-related derivatives Millions of Yen 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Credit default swaps: Sold ¥ 23,109 ¥ 23,109 ¥ 733 ¥ 733 Total ¥ 733 ¥ 733 Millions of Yen 2018 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Credit default swaps: Sold ¥ 16,062 ¥ 16,062 ¥ 579 ¥ 579 Total ¥ 579 ¥ 579 132 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 March 31 Contract amount Valuation gains Fair value2 Total Over 1 year (losses) Over-the-counter transactions Credit default swaps: Vision Sold $ 208 $ 208 $7 $7 Total $7 $7 Notes: 1. The above transactions are valued at fair value and the related valuation gains (losses) are accounted for in the consolidated statements of income. 2. Fair value is calculated using discounted present value. 3. “Sold” represents transactions which the credit risk has been assumed. (2) Derivative Transactions to Which the Hedge Accounting Method Is Applied The following tables set forth the contract amount or the amount equivalent to the principal and fair value at the end of the fiscal year by transaction Enhancing Corporate Value type and hedge accounting method, and calculation method of fair value with respect to derivative transactions to which the hedge accounting method is applied. Contract amount does not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. 1) Interest rate-related derivatives Millions of Yen March 31 2019 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Interest rate swaps: Receivable fixed rate / Securities ¥ 3,406,150 ¥ 3,406,150 ¥ 55,380 Payable floating rate Loans Deposits Receivable floating rate / 4,439,145 4,110,517 (212,645) Payable fixed rate Exceptional treatment for Interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps Medium-term Strategy Loans Receivable fixed rate / 30,100 26,050 —3 Payable floating rate Total ¥ (157,265) Millions of Yen March 31 2018 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Interest rate swaps: Receivable fixed rate / Securities ¥ 1,821,750 ¥ 1,816,150 ¥3,217 Payable floating rate Loans Deposits Receivable floating rate / 4,535,521 4,368,620 (159,670) Payable fixed rate Sustainability Exceptional treatment for Interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps Loans Receivable fixed rate / 39,750 30,100 —3 Payable floating rate Total ¥ (156,452) Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Interest rate swaps: Data Compilation Receivable fixed rate / Securities $ 30,689 $ 30,689 $499 Payable floating rate Loans Deposits Receivable floating rate / 39,996 37,035 (1,916) Payable fixed rate Exceptional treatment for Interest rate swaps: interest rate swaps Loans Receivable fixed rate / 271 235 —3 Payable floating rate Total $(1,417) Notes: 1. In principle, these derivatives are accounted for using deferred hedge accounting. 2. Fair value of over-the-counter transactions is calculated using discounted present value, option pricing models and other methods. 3. Interest rate swaps subject to the exceptional treatment are accounted for in combination with the loans that are subject to the hedge. Therefore their fair value is included in the fair value of the relevant loans in Note 22 “FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.” JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 133 2) Currency-related derivatives Millions of Yen March 31 2019 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Currency swaps Securities ¥ 6,532,674 ¥ 6,080,467 ¥ (33,160) Foreign currenCross currency interest cy-denominated 56,866 — 1,593 rate swaps forecasted transactions Currency swaps Securities 32,433 — —3 Allocation method Forward foreign exchange Other liabilities 0 — (0) Recognition of gain or loss Forward foreign exchange Securities 7,063,663 — (18,073) on the hedged item Total ¥ (49,641) Millions of Yen March 31 2018 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Currency swaps Securities ¥ 4,934,320 ¥ 4,426,624 ¥63,086 Forward foreign exchange Foreign curren59,417 — (6,509) cy-denominated Cross currency interest forecasted 43,570 — (216) rate swaps transactions Allocation method Currency swaps Securities 32,433 32,433 —3 Recognition of gain or loss Forward foreign exchange Securities 5,367,910 — 80,320 on the hedged item Total ¥136,681 Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 Major hedged Type of derivative Contract amount Hedge accounting method item Contract amount Fair value2 due after 1 year Deferral hedge method Currency swaps Securities $ 58,858 $ 54,784 $ (299) Foreign currenCross currency interest cy-denominated 512 — 14 rate swaps forecasted transactions Currency swaps Securities 292 — —3 Allocation method Forward foreign exchange Other liabilities 0 — (0) Recognition of gain or loss Forward foreign exchange Securities 63,642 — (163) on the hedged item Total $ (447) Notes: 1. In principle, these derivatives are accounted for using deferred hedge accounting. 2. Fair value is calculated using discounted present value and other methods. 3. Currency swaps subject to the allocation method is accounted for in combination with the securities that are subject to the hedge. Therefore their fair value is included in the fair value of the relevant securities in Note 22 “FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.” 24. CONTRACTS Future payments on service contracts for system-related services (such as usage of hardware, software, telecommunication services and maintenance) as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Due within 1 year ¥ 628 ¥ 790 $6 Due after 1 year 527 662 5 25. LEASE TRANSACTIONS Operating Leases (1) As lessee  Future lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Due within 1 year ¥30,385 ¥31,470 $274 Due after 1 year 180,802 143,065 1,629 Total ¥211,188 ¥174,536 $1,903 134 (2) As lessor  Future lease receivables under non-cancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Due within 1 year ¥ 17,472 ¥ 16,781 $ 157 Due after 1 year 55,005 63,219 496 Total ¥ 72,478 ¥ 80,001 $ 653 Vision 26. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES In the event that the Company’s consolidated subsidiary cancels all or part of its lease contracts for post offices, the lessors shall be entitled to seek compensation for the cancellation. The amounts of compensation are calculated based on the amounts of uncollectible investment. The possible amounts of compensation were ¥73,885 million ($666 million) and ¥80,929 million as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Compensation shall not be made in full in the case where the offices are used for purposes other than originally intended, regardless of whether the contracts were cancelled on the side of the Company’s subsidiary. Enhancing Corporate Value 27. SEGMENT INFORMATION (1) Outline of Reportable Segments The Group’s reportable segments are categorized based on certain criteria for which discrete financial information is available and reviewed regularly by the management in order to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance.  The Group assesses business performance primarily by assessing the performance of each individual consolidated subsidiary and as such recognizes each consolidated subsidiary as an identifiable business segment unit except for Japan Post Co., Ltd., which is classified into postal and domestic logistics business segment and post office business segment. The Group determines its reportable segments by aggregating business segment units with similar economic characteristics, market selling products and services, customer type and other factors.  The Group’s reportable segments are (1) postal and domestic logistics business and (2) post office business operated mainly by Japan Post Co., Ltd., (3) international logistics business operated mainly by Toll, (4) banking business operated mainly by Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd., and (5) life insurance business operated mainly by Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (2) Method of Calculating Income, Profit and Loss, and Assets and Other Items by Reportable Segment Accounting policies applied to the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 2 “SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” Intersegment income is determined based on market prices or total cost. (3) Selected Financial Information on Reportable Segment Medium-term Strategy Millions of Yen 2019 Reportable segment Year ended March 31 Postal and Other2 Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Income1: Income from third parties ¥2,069,865 ¥190,539 ¥701,256 ¥1,843,742 ¥7,916,596 ¥12,722,000 ¥51,348 ¥12,773,349 Intersegment income 49,467 1,173,218 — 1,668 59 1,224,413 292,410 1,516,824 Total ¥2,119,332 ¥1,363,757 ¥701,256 ¥1,845,411 ¥7,916,655 ¥13,946,414 ¥343,759 ¥14,290,173 Segment profit ¥124,457 ¥59,840 ¥5,094 ¥373,976 ¥264,870 ¥828,239 ¥214,368 ¥1,042,607 Segment assets 2,051,470 2,665,917 467,359 208,974,103 73,905,017 288,063,868 8,162,382 296,226,251 Other items: Depreciation and 88,337 44,987 27,486 33,693 58,076 252,581 17,014 269,596 Sustainability amortization Amortization of goodwill — — — — — — 287 287 Interest and dividend 29 1 605 1,357,775 1,085,969 2,444,382 8 2,444,390 income Interest expenses 593 4 5,871 347,157 1,064 354,691 2 354,694 Equity in earnings of — 152 321 225 — 699 — 699 affiliates Gains on sales of fixed 173 12 7,039 — — 7,225 6,769 13,994 assets Gains on negative — — — — — — — — goodwill Reversal of reserve for — — — — 19,251 19,251 — 19,251 price fluctuations Data Compilation Losses on sales and 988 2,166 98 3,556 620 7,430 886 8,317 disposal of fixed assets Losses on impairment of 214 7,354 1,327 550 1,088 10,535 2,392 12,928 fixed assets Provision for reserve for — — — — — — — — price fluctuations Post office refurbishment — — — — — — 18,315 18,315 expenses Provision for reserve for — — — — 111,806 111,806 — 111,806 policyholder dividends Income taxes 28,711 9,418 2,159 104,090 50,125 194,506 (21,507) 172,999 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the — 1,831 10,927 1,568 — 14,327 — 14,327 equity method Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible 33,940 69,500 61,004 49,351 56,787 270,583 31,851 302,434 assets JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 135 Millions of Yen 2018 Reportable segment Year ended March 31 Postal and Other2 Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Income1: Income from third parties ¥1,973,809 ¥190,356 ¥704,890 ¥2,042,980 ¥7,952,894 ¥12,864,930 ¥53,606 ¥12,918,537 Intersegment income 51,727 ¥1,170,319 — 1,948 57 1,224,053 288,641 1,512,695 Total ¥2,025,536 1,360,676 ¥704,890 ¥2,044,929 ¥7,952,951 ¥14,088,984 ¥342,248 ¥14,431,232 Segment profit ¥43,736 ¥40,983 ¥6,544 ¥499,642 ¥309,233 ¥900,141 ¥220,154 ¥1,120,295 Segment assets 1,971,534 2,692,432 441,941 210,629,793 76,831,261 292,566,963 8,200,394 300,767,358 Other items: Depreciation and 90,544 45,831 26,502 37,447 61,321 261,646 17,701 279,348 amortization Amortization of goodwill — — — — — — 167 167 Interest and dividend 18 249 594 1,502,747 1,152,306 2,655,916 1 2,655,917 income Interest expenses 614 7 4,336 331,781 1,450 338,191 0 338,191 Equity in earnings of — 194 70 83 — 348 — 348 affiliates Gains on sales of fixed 0 2,842 1,482 — 86,053 90,378 61 90,440 assets Gains on negative — — 568 — — 568 — 568 goodwill Reversal of reserve for — — — — — — — — price fluctuations Losses on sales and 1,147 1,687 363 713 337 4,250 62 4,312 disposal of fixed assets Losses on impairment of 1,317 7,970 408 17 2,003 11,716 6,256 17,973 fixed assets Provision for reserve for — — — — 128,031 128,031 — 128,031 price fluctuations Post office refurbishment — — — — — — 25,213 25,213 expenses Provision for reserve for — — — — 117,792 117,792 — 117,792 policyholder dividends Income taxes 8,279 6,179 1,566 146,192 42,634 204,852 (7,745) 197,107 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the — 1,691 12,125 1,552 — 15,369 — 15,369 equity method Increase in tangible fixed assets and 84,615 24,618 50,902 58,835 34,637 253,609 21,622 275,231 intangible assets 136 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Reportable segment Year ended March 31 Postal and Other2 Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Income1: Vision Income from third parties $18,649 $1,717 $6,318 $16,612 $71,327 $114,623 $463 $115,086 Intersegment income 446 10,570 — 15 1 11,032 2,635 13,666 Total $19,095 $12,287 $6,318 $16,627 $71,328 $125,655 $3,097 $128,752 Segment profit $1,121 $539 $46 $3,369 $2,386 $7,462 $1,931 $9,394 Segment assets 18,483 24,019 4,211 1,882,819 665,871 2,595,404 73,542 2,668,945 Other items: Depreciation and 796 405 248 304 523 2,276 153 2,429 amortization Amortization of goodwill — — — — — — 3 3 Enhancing Corporate Value Interest and dividend 0 0 5 12,233 9,784 22,023 0 22,024 income Interest expenses 5 0 53 3,128 10 3,196 0 3,196 Equity in earnings of — 1 3 2 — 6 — 6 affiliates Gains on sales of fixed 2 0 63 — — 65 61 126 assets Gains on negative — — — — — — — — goodwill Reversal of reserve for — — — — 173 173 — 173 price fluctuations Losses on sales and 9 20 1 32 6 67 8 75 disposal of fixed assets Losses on impairment of 2 66 12 5 10 95 22 116 fixed assets Medium-term Strategy Provision for reserve for — — — — — — — — price fluctuations Post office refurbishment — — — — — — 165 165 expenses Provision for reserve for — — — — 1,007 1,007 — 1,007 policyholder dividends Income taxes 259 85 19 938 452 1,752 (194) 1,559 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the — 16 98 14 — 129 — 129 equity method Increase in tangible fixed assets and 306 626 550 445 512 2,438 287 2,725 intangible assets Notes: 1. Income is presented instead of net sales which is typical for companies in other industries. Sustainability 2. Other business includes the hotel business and the hospital business. Segment profit in other business includes dividend income from subsidiaries and affiliates recorded by the Company in the amount of ¥203,163 million ($1,830 million) and ¥198,891 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (4) Reconciliation of Amounts Reported on Reportable Segments and Consolidated Financial Statements 1) Reconciliation of amounts reported on reportable segments and on the consolidated statements of income Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Total income of reportable segments1 ¥ 13,946,414 ¥ 14,088,984 $ 125,655 Income of other business1 343,759 342,248 3,097 Eliminations of intersegment transactions (1,516,824) (1,512,695) (13,666) Adjustments2 1,649 1,838 15 Data Compilation Subtotal ¥ 12,774,999 ¥ 12,920,375 $ 115,100 Gains on sales of fixed assets 7,230 88,182 65 Gains on negative goodwill — 568 — Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations 19,251 — 173 Compensation for transfer 2,345 190 21 Compensation income — 176 — Settlement received — 1,001 — Gains on transfer of business — 2,005 — Other 583 15 5 Total income on the consolidated statements of income ¥ 12,804,409 ¥ 13,012,517 $ 115,365 Notes: 1. Income is presented instead of net sales which is typical for companies in other industries. 2. “Adjustments” are primarily due to differences in the calculation methods used for income for the international logistics business segment and the consolidated statements of income. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 137 2) Reconciliation between total segment profit of reportable segments and income before income taxes on the consolidated statements of income Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Total segment profit (loss) of reportable segments ¥ 828,239 ¥ 900,141 $ 7,462 Segment profit in other business 214,368 220,154 1,931 Eliminations of intersegment transactions (204,465) (199,813) (1,842) Adjustments1 (7,445) (4,337) (67) Subtotal ¥ 830,696 ¥ 916,144 $ 7,484 Gains on sales of fixed assets 7,230 88,182 65 Gains on negative goodwill — 568 — Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations 19,251 — 173 Compensation for transfer 2,345 190 21 Compensation income — 176 — Settlement received — 1,001 — Gains on transfer of business — 2,005 — Losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets (8,310) (4,762) (75) Losses on impairment of fixed assets (12,927) (17,964) (116) Provision for reserve for price fluctuations — (128,031) — Post office refurbishment expenses (18,315) (25,213) (165) Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends (111,806) (117,792) (1,007) Other, net (12,675) (5,371) (114) Income before income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations ¥ 695,487 ¥ 709,134 $ 6,266 Note: 1. “Adjustments” are primarily due to differences in the calculation methods used for segment profit for the international logistics business segment and income before income taxes on the consolidated statements of income. 3) Reconciliation between total segment assets of reportable segments and total assets on the consolidated balance sheets Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Total segment assets of reportable segments ¥ 288,063,868 ¥ 292,566,963 $ 2,595,404 Segment assets in other business 8,162,382 8,200,394 73,542 Eliminations of intersegment transactions (10,055,542) (10,127,203) (90,599) Total assets on the consolidated balance sheets ¥ 286,170,709 ¥ 290,640,154 $ 2,578,347 4) Reconciliation between other items on reportable segments and the amounts of items equivalent to those items on the consolidated financial statements Millions of Yen 2019 Year ended March 31 Amount on Total of reportable Other Reconciliations consolidated segments financial statements Depreciation and amortization ¥ 252,581 ¥ 17,014 ¥ (214) ¥ 269,382 Amortization of goodwill — 287 — 287 Interest and dividend income 2,444,382 8 — 2,444,390 Interest expenses 354,691 2 — 354,694 Equity in earnings of affiliates 699 — — 699 Gains on sales of fixed assets 7,225 6,769 (6,764) 7,230 Gains on negative goodwill — — — — Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations 19,251 — — 19,251 Losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets 7,430 886 (6) 8,310 Losses on impairment of fixed assets 10,535 2,392 (0) 12,927 Provision for reserve for price fluctuations — — — — Post office refurbishment expenses — 18,315 — 18,315 Provision for reserve for policyholder dividends 111,806 — — 111,806 Income taxes 194,506 (21,507) — 172,999 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the equity method 14,327 — — 14,327 Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets 270,583 31,851 (6,682) 295,751 138 Millions of Yen 2018 Year ended March 31 Amount on Total of reportable Other Reconciliations consolidated segments financial statements Depreciation and amortization ¥ 261,646 ¥ 17,701 ¥ (182) ¥ 279,165 Amortization of goodwill — 167 — 167 Interest and dividend income 2,655,916 1 — 2,655,917 Vision Interest expenses 338,191 0 — 338,191 Equity in earnings of affiliates 348 — — 348 Gains on sales of fixed assets 90,378 61 (2,258) 88,182 Gains on negative goodwill 568 — — 568 Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations — — — — Losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets 4,250 62 449 4,762 Enhancing Corporate Value Losses on impairment of fixed assets 11,716 6,256 (9) 17,964 Provision for reserve for price fluctuations 128,031 — — 128,031 Post office refurbishment expenses — 25,213 — 25,213 Provision for reserve for policyholder 117,792 — — 117,792 dividends Income taxes 204,852 (7,745) — 197,107 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the equity method 15,369 — — 15,369 Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets 253,609 21,622 (5,062) 270,169 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Year ended March 31 Amount on Total of reportable Medium-term Strategy Other Reconciliations consolidated segments financial statements Depreciation and amortization $ 2,276 $ 153 $ (2) $ 2,427 Amortization of goodwill — 3 — 3 Interest and dividend income 22,023 0 — 22,024 Interest expenses 3,196 0 — 3,196 Equity in earnings of affiliates 6 — — 6 Gains on sales of fixed assets 65 61 (61) 65 Gains on negative goodwill — — — — Reversal of reserve for price fluctuations 173 — — 173 Losses on sales and disposal of fixed assets 67 8 (0) 75 Losses on impairment of fixed assets 95 22 (0) 116 Provision for reserve for price fluctuations — — — — Sustainability Post office refurbishment expenses — 165 — 165 Provision for reserve for policyholder 1,007 — — 1,007 dividends Income taxes 1,752 (194) — 1,559 Investments in affiliates accounted for by the equity method 129 — — 129 Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets 2,438 287 (60) 2,665 (5) Information on Amortization and Unamortized Balance of Goodwill by Reportable Segment Millions of Yen 2019 Reportable segment Data Compilation Year ended March 31 Postal and Other Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Amortization of goodwill ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥ 287 ¥ 287 Unamortized balance of goodwill — — — — — — 2,718 2,718 Millions of Yen 2018 Reportable segment Year ended March 31 Postal and Other Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Amortization of goodwill ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥ 167 ¥ 167 Unamortized balance of goodwill — — — — — — 2,885 2,885 JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 139 Millions of U.S. Dollars 2019 Reportable segment Year ended March 31 Postal and Other Total International domestic Post office Banking Life insurance Total logistics logistics Amortization of goodwill $— $— $— $— $— $— $ 3 $ 3 Unamortized balance of goodwill — — — — — — 24 24 (6) Information on Gains on Negative Goodwill by Reportable Segment There were no gains on negative goodwill for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. The international logistics business segment recorded gains on negative goodwill of ¥568 million due to the acquisition of the port and harbor transportation business by a consolidated subsidiary of Toll for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. (7) Supplemental Information 1) Information by services This information is omitted because similar information has been presented above for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 2) Information by geographic region A) Income This information is omitted because income to customers in Japan exceeded 90% of income in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. B) Tangible fixed assets This information is omitted because the balance of tangible fixed assets in Japan exceeded 90% of the total balance on the consolidated balance sheets for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 3) Information by major customer This information is omitted because no customer accounted for 10% or more of income in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 28. PER SHARE DATA Yen U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Net assets per share2 ¥ 3,287.86 ¥ 3,278.11 $ 29.62 Yen U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Net income per share4 ¥ 118.57 ¥ 112.97 $ 1.07 Notes: 1. Diluted net income per share is not presented for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 as potential common stock did not exist. 2. Net assets per share is calculated based on the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars March 31 2019 2018 2019 Net assets ¥ 14,788,654 ¥ 14,743,234 $ 133,243 Amount deducted from net assets: Non-controlling interests 1,495,145 1,489,292 13,471 Net assets attributable to common stock at the fiscal year-end ¥ 13,293,508 ¥ 13,253,942 $ 119,772 Thousands of shares March 31 2019 2018 Number of common stock outstanding at the fiscal year-end 4,043,203 4,043,162 used for the calculation of net assets per share3 3. T  he number of treasury stock excluded from the number of common stock outstanding at the fiscal year-end used for the calculation of net assets per share includes the number of shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust. The number of shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust excluded from the calculation of net assets per share was 656,800 shares and 698,100 shares as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 4. Net income per share is calculated based on the following: Millions of Yen Millions of U.S. Dollars Years ended March 31 2019 2018 2019 Net income attributable to Japan Post Holdings ¥ 479,419 ¥ 460,623 $ 4,319 Amount not attributable to common stockholders — — — Net income attributable to common stock ¥ 479,419 ¥ 460,623 $ 4,319 Thousands of shares Years ended March 31 2019 2018 Average number of common stock outstanding during the fiscal year5 4,043,196 4,077,276 5. T he number of treasury stock excluded from the average number of common stock outstanding during the fiscal year used for the calculation of net income per share includes the number of shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust. The average number of shares of the Company held by the management board benefit trust excluded from the calculation of net income per share was 664,352 shares and 705,770 shares for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 140 29. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Sale of a portion of equity interests in a subsidiary The Company sold a portion of its equity interests in Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd., which is a consolidated subsidiary, as described below. 1. Reasons for the sale In accordance with the Postal Service Privatization Act, the Company is required to dispose of its entire equity interests in Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. and Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “two financial companies”) as early as possible, upon consideration of the condition of business of the two financial companies, impact on fulfilling its obligation to secure universal services and other factors. In compliance with the Vision above effects, the Company plans to sell its equity interests in the two financial companies in stages to the extent that its holding ratio is lowered to around 50%.  Following such policy, the Company sold a portion of equity interests in Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. by an offering (hereinafter referred to as “The Offering”) by considering the stock price of Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd., the funding needs of the Company, the possible effects on consolidated financial results of the Company and other matters.  In addition, ahead of the above, the Company sold a portion of equity interests in Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. through the share repurchase undertaken by Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Sale through the share repurchase undertaken by Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd.”) Enhancing Corporate Value 2. Timing of the sale 1) The Offering April 23, 2019 2) Sale through the share repurchase undertaken by Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. April 8, 2019 3. Name of the subsidiary, business description of the subsidiary and its transactions with the Company Name of the subsidiary: Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Business description of the subsidiary: Life insurance business Its transactions with the Company: Payment of brand royalty fees to the Company and others 4. Number of stocks sold and selling price 1) The Offering Number of stocks sold: 136,670,900 shares Medium-term Strategy Selling price: ¥322,347 million ($2,904 million) 2) Sale through the share repurchase undertaken by Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. Number of stocks sold: 34,596,700 shares Selling price: ¥92,476 million ($833 million) 5. Impact of the sale and holding ratio after the sale Impact of the sale: An increase in capital surplus of ¥3,726 million ($34 million) will be recorded for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 due to the sale. Holding ratio after the sale: 64.50% Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 141 142 Capital Adequacy Matters for Disclosure Concerning Composition of Capital Capital structure Vision Consolidated capital adequacy ratio (domestic standard) (Millions of yen) 2019 Amounts 2018 Amounts Items (As of March 31, excluded under (As of March 31, excluded under 2019) transitional 2018) transitional arrangements arrangements Core Capital: instruments and reserves Enhancing Corporate Value Directly issued qualifying common stock or preferred stock mandatorily converted into common stock capital plus related capital surplus and ¥ 9,902,849 ¥ 9,689,139 retained earnings of which: capital and capital surplus 7,653,103 7,653,156 of which: retained earnings 3,193,040 3,007,643 of which: treasury stock (deduction) 831,887 831,945 of which: cash dividends to be paid (deduction) 111,407 139,714 of which: other than those above — — Accumulated other comprehensive income included in Core Capital 161,715 146,846 of which: foreign currency translation adjustments (89,350) (85,870) Medium-term Strategy Subscription rights to common stock or preferred stock mandatorily converted — — into common stock Adjusted non-controlling interests (amount allowed to be included in Core 242,596 217,324 Capital) Reserves included in Core Capital: instruments and reserves 314 338 of which: general reserve for possible loan losses 314 338 of which: eligible reserve — — Eligible Non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock subject to phase out — — arrangement included in Core Capital: instruments and reserves Eligible capital instrument subject to phase out arrangement included in Core — — Capital: instruments and reserves Capital instrument issued through the measures for strengthening capital by — — public institutions included in Core Capital: instruments and reserves Sustainability 45% of revaluation reserve for land included in Core Capital: instruments and — — reserves Non-controlling interests included in Core Capital subject to phase out 741,821 752,093 arrangement Core Capital: instruments and reserves (A) 11,049,297 10,805,741 Core Capital: regulatory adjustments Total intangible fixed assets (net of related tax liability, excluding those relating 118,078 93,859 22,743 to mortgage servicing rights) of which: goodwill (net of related tax liability, including those equivalent) 2,718 2,885 — of which: other intangible fixed assets other than goodwill and mortgage 115,360 90,974 22,743 servicing rights (net of related tax liability) Data Compilation Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from 38 260 65 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Shortfall of eligible provisions to expected losses — — — Securitization gain on sale — — — Gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities — — — Net defined benefit asset 34,836 24,250 6,062 Investments in own shares (excluding those reported in the Net Assets section) 9 54 13 Reciprocal cross-holdings in capital instruments issued by Other Financial — — — Institutions for raising capital that are held by the Holding Company Group Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (’Other Financial Institutions’), net of eligible short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% — — — of the issued share capital (’Non-significant Investment’) (amount above the 10% threshold) JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 143 (Millions of yen) 2019 Amounts 2018 Amounts Item (As of March 31, excluded under (As of March 31, excluded under 2019) transitional 2018) transitional arrangements arrangements Amount exceeding the 10% threshold on specified items — — — of which: significant investments in the common stock of Other Financial — — — Institutions, net of eligible short positions of which: mortgage servicing rights — — — of which: deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (net of — — — related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold on specified items — — — of which: significant investments in the common stock of Other Financial — — — Institutions, net of eligible short positions of which: mortgage servicing rights — — — of which: deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (net of — — — related tax liability) Core Capital: regulatory adjustments (B) 152,963 118,424 Total capital Total capital ((A) (B)) (C) 10,896,334 10,687,317 Risk-weighted assets Credit risk-weighted assets 58,099,111 52,361,109 of which: total of items included in risk-weighted assets subject to — 17,503 transitional arrangements of which: other Financial Institutions Exposures — (11,380) of which: other than those above — 13 Market risk equivalent / 8% — — Operational risk equivalent / 8% 3,354,318 3,552,526 Credit risk-weighted assets adjustments — — Operational risk equivalent adjustments — — Total amount of risk-weighted assets (D) 61,453,429 55,913,636 Capital adequacy ratio Capital adequacy ratio (consolidated) ((C)/(D)) 17.73% 19.11% Note 1: The consolidated capital adequacy ratio (domestic standard) is calculated in line with provisions of Article 52-25 of the Banking Act and on the basis of criteria for judging whether a bank holding company’s capital adequacy ratio and that of its subsidiaries are appropriate in light of assets held (Financial Services Agency Notice No. 20, 2006, hereinafter referred to as Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice). The data is calculated on a consolidated basis and according to the domestic standard. Note 2: In accordance with Article 15, Paragraph 2 of the Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice, Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. is not included in the scope of consolidation. 144 Qualitative Disclosure 1. Scope of consolidation  The Company raises capital through equity financing (issuance of (1) Differences and the causes of the relevant differences between comcommon stock). panies belonging to Japan Post Group that calculate the consolidated capital adequacy ratio in accordance with Article 15 of the Financial 3. Overview of method for evaluating the level of capital adequacy for the Service Agency’s (FSA) Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Group Vision Notice and companies that are included in the scope of consolidation With regard to the current adequacy of capital, the consolidated capiin accordance with Regulations for Consolidated Financial Statements tal adequacy ratio as of March 31, 2019 calculated in accordance with The Company calculates its consolidated capital adequacy ratio as the Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice was 17.73%. This follows. Pursuant to Article 52-25 of the Banking Act, Consolidated level is substantially higher than the 4% capital adequacy ratio of the capital adequacy ratio is calculated its capital adequacy in accordomestic standard. When calculating the consolidated capital adedance with the capital adequacy ratio measurement guidelines, FSA’s quacy ratio, the standardized approach is used for credit risk and the Notice No. 20, March 27, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as Holding basic indicator approach is used for operational risk. A figure for marEnhancing Corporate Value Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice), which requires the bank ket risk is not included. holding company to calculate its capital adequacy based on assessment of the assets of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries. Please refer to pages 87 through 88 for the names of principal subsid*Japan Post Bank holds most of the assets with risk exposure coniaries. In accordance with Article 15, the Group is comprised of the cerning risk categories for companies belonging to the holding following 263 companies (hereafter the “Group”) for the purpose of company’s group with regard to Holding Company Capital the calculation of the consolidated capital ratio. In accordance with Adequacy Ratio Notice. Consequently, the following section covers the provisions of Article 15, Paragraph 3 of the Holding Company primarily risk management at Japan Post Bank. Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice, Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd., an in As a bank holding company, Japan Post Holdings monitors the surance subsidiary, is not included in the scope of consolidation. overall risk management framework at Japan Post Bank. In addition,  However, according to the Regulations of Consolidated Financial the holding company supervises risk management for the entire Statements, the scope of consolidation includes 264 companies, comGroup in accordance with the Basic Policy for Group Risk prising 263 consolidated subsidiaries and Japan Post Insurance Co., Management. Please refer to “Japan Post Group Risk” on pages 72 Medium-term Strategy Ltd., a Group company. through 73 for more information about risk management for Japan  Further details on Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. are presented on Post Group. pages 36 through 37 and 95 through 97. (2) Number of consolidated subsidiaries and names and details of main business activities of principal consolidated subsidiaries within the 4. Credit risk Group (1) Summary of risk management policy and procedures As mentioned previously, the Group is composed of the Company and Credit risk is the risk of incurring a loss due to a decline in the value of 263 companies under the Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio assets (including off-balance-sheet assets), or total loss of value due Notice. to the deteriorating financial condition of an obligor or to other  Principal consolidated subsidiaries are Japan Post Co., Ltd. and factors. Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. For details of business activities of the prin Japan Post Bank uses a statistical method called value at risk (VaR) cipal consolidated subsidiaries, refer to pages 28 through 35 and 89 to quantify credit risk exposure. Japan Post Bank monitors its credit risk through 94 of this report. limit amounts on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that VaR does (3) Number of affiliated corporations engaged in financial businesses subnot exceed allocated risk capital. Japan Post Bank also carries out Sustainability ject to application of Article 21 of the Holding Company Capital stress testing to consider the possibility of credit risk due to largeAdequacy Ratio Notice, names of affiliated companies engaged in the scale economic fluctuations outside those in the VaR model. relevant financial businesses, total amounts of assets and total  Japan Post Bank sets credit limits for exposure for individual compaamounts of net assets on the balance sheets and details of principal nies, corporate groups, and countries and areas and manages and businesses. monitors this exposure in order to control credit concentration risk.  None To provide a system of checks and balances for credit risk manage(4) Names of companies belonging to the Group that are not included in ment, Japan Post Bank has a Risk Management Department, posithe scope of consolidation and companies not belonging to the Group tioned as a middle management unit, and a Credit Department, that are included in the scope of consolidation, total amounts of aspositioned as a credit control unit. Within the Bank’s organization, sets and total amounts of net assets on the balance sheets and dethese units are independent of front-office and back-office operations. tails of principal businesses. The Risk Management Department oversees the internal credit rating Data Compilation 1)  Companies belonging to the Group that are not included in the system, self-assessments of assets and other credit risk activities. The scope of consolidation Credit Department is responsible for monitoring individual credit acNone counts, including the assignment of internal credit ratings, monitoring 2)  Companies not belonging to the Group that are included in the of status of borrowers and overseeing of large borrowers and screenscope of consolidation ing of loans. Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd.  The Risk Management Committee, ALM Committee and Executive Refer to page 99 of this report for details on the total amount of Committee hold discussions and reach decisions on matters concernassets and total amount of net assets for Japan Post Insurance Co., ing the establishment and operation of credit risk management proLtd. and to pages 36 – 37 of this report for details about the comgrams and on credit risk management. pany’s main business activities.  Moreover, Japan Post Bank conducts credit business with the basic (5) Restrictions on transfer of funds and common stock among companies principles of public welfare, financial soundness and profitability. The in the holding company group Bank establishes the credit code to underpin sound and appropriate None credit business activities by all executives and employees, in which the Bank has defined in writing its basic philosophy, action guidelines and 2. Overview of capital instruments (This entire amount or partial amount other items of credit business. are referred to as capital instruments and included in basic items of  Reserve for possible loan losses is provided for in accordance with core capital as calculated under Article 14 of Holding Company Capital the write-off and provision standards from the “Practical Guidance for Adequacy Ratio Notice.) Checking Internal Controls for Self-Assessments of Assets by Banks JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 145 and Other Financial Institutions and for Audits of Loans Written Off Japan Post Bank uses “the Simple Method” prescribed in the Capital and Loan Loss Allowance Provisions” (Japanese Institute of Certified Adequacy Ratio Notice for application of the qualified financial Public Accountants (JICPA), Special Committee for Audits of Banks, collateral. etc. Report No. 4). In accordance with self-assessment standards for  The Bank has established internal bank procedures to permit the assets, all loans are categorized by marketing departments and then timely disposal or acquisition of qualified financial collateral based on audited by independent credit assessment departments. contracts concerning collateral as prescribed in loan agreements, etc.  Moreover, Japan Post Bank continuously monitors individual obli¢ Summary of policy and procedures for offsetting loans and self deposgor’s ability to meet the financial obligations, their financial condition its and types and scope of applicable transactions and other factors affecting their credit standing in order to check obliFor the use of the netting of loans and self deposits, as prescribed in gors’ credit risk in a timely and suitable manner. Additionally, Japan the special terms for netting in the bank transaction agreement, etc., Post Bank performs even more-strict monitoring of borrowers with Japan Post Bank uses the remaining amount after netting loans and self business conditions requiring close attention, such as borrowers at deposits as the amount of exposure for calculating the capital aderisk of having their credit rating downgraded due to deteriorating busiquacy ratio. ness results and borrowers with a steep decline in their stock price. As of the end of March 2019, Japan Post Bank was not using the off(2) Portfolios where the standardized approach is applied setting of loans and self deposits. 1) Qualified rating agencies, etc. used in making judgments on risk ¢ Categories and credit standing of guarantors and major credit derivaweights tive counterparties  When making judgments on risk weight, Japan Post Bank uses the Principal guarantors at Japan Post Bank are the central governments, credit ratings of four rating agencies and the Organisation for etc. to which lower risk weightings than the guaranteed obligations are Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The four credit applied. rating agencies are Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I); Additionally, credit derivative counterparties are the financial instituJapan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR); Moody’s Investors Service, tions to which lower risk weightings than the guaranteed obligations Inc. (Moody’s); and S&P Global Ratings (S&P). are applied.  For the calculation of the Group consolidated capital adequacy ¢ Summary of policy and procedures when using legally binding mutual ratio, Japan Post Holdings also uses the ratings of Fitch Ratings netting contracts for derivative transactions and transactions with reLimited. purchase agreements and categories and scope of applicable 2) Qualified rating agencies, etc. used to determine risk weight for transactions each category of exposure Japan Post Bank considers the results of derivatives transactions, in Japan Post Bank uses the following qualified rating agencies for cluding interest swaps and currency swaps, for which it has concluded each of the following credit risk exposure categories. effective netting contracts in accordance with the legal systems of  In the case where multiple credit rating agencies provide ratings, each country in which it carries out transactions the Bank selects the credit rating that yields the second smallest ¢ Information concerning concentrations of credit risk and market risk risk weight in accordance with Ministerial Notification of Capital associated with the use of credit risk mitigation methods Adequacy Ratio of the FSA’s Notice No. 19, March 27, 2006, criteria  The principal credit risk mitigation methods of Japan Post Bank are on whether or not the adequacy of equity capital of a Bank is apqualified financial collateral that use cash and self deposits and there propriate in light of the circumstances such as the assets owned by is no concentration of credit risk and market risk. that Bank as stipulated by Article 14-2 of the Banking Act (hereinafter referred to as “Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice”). 6. Summary of risk management policy and procedures for counterparty risk concerning derivative transactions and transactions with long term settlements Exposure Rating agencies (1) Policy on collateral security and reserve calculation, impact in the Central governments and Resident R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P event of need for provision of additional collateral due to downturn in central banks Non-resident Moody’s, S&P, OECD credit standing of Japan Post Bank Non-central government public sector entities R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P As required, Japan Post Bank enters into contracts for the mitigation of Foreign non-central government public sector entities Moody’s, S&P, OECD credit risk in which collateral is periodically submitted or received with Multilateral Development Banks Moody’s, S&P the derivative transaction counterparty in order to cover rebuilding Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P and other costs. Under the provision of these contracts, a decline in Japanese government agencies R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P the financial condition of Japan Post Bank may require the provision of Three regional public corporations under Japanese additional collateral to the counterparty. However, the Bank believes R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P local governments that the impact would be negligible. Financial institutions and Resident R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P  The policy for calculating the allowance for derivative transaction Type I Financial Instruments Business losses is the same as for ordinary balance sheet assets. Non-resident Moody’s, S&P, OECD Operators (2) Policy for credit limits and allocation of capital for risk exposure Resident R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P When conducting derivative transactions, Japan Post Bank assigns obCorporates Non-resident Moody’s, S&P ligor ratings to all counterparties and provides credit limits in accorSecuritization transactions R&I, JCR, Moody’s, S&P dance with the rating of each counterparty. These limits are monitored on a daily basis. In addition, to manage credit risk, the balance of credit extended is calculated using the current exposure method, 5. Summary of risk management policy and procedures for credit risk mitiwhich takes into account the market value of derivatives and future gation methods price volatility risk. In calculating the capital adequacy ratio, Japan Post Bank applies  The allocation of capital for taking on risk for derivative transactions “credit risk mitigation methods” prescribed in the Capital Adequacy is almost the same as other transactions. Ratio Notice. These methods are used to incorporate the risk mitigation effects of collateral, guarantees and other items in the capital ad7. Securitization exposure equacy ratio. These methods include qualified financial collateral, the (1) Summary of risk management policy and risk characteristics netting of loans and self deposits, and guaranties and credit As an investor, Japan Post Bank is exposed to risks associated with derivatives. securitization. Just as with investments in other securities, for purchas¢ Types of qualified financial collateral ing, the Bank provides credit limits based on obligor ratings assigned in Japan Post Bank accepts cash, self deposits and securities as qualified accordance with the Bank’s own thorough examination of underlying financial collateral. assets, the senior/subordinate rights structure, the nature of securitiza¢ Summary of policy and procedures for valuation and management of tion scheme and other factors. Following a purchase, the Bank collateral 146 monitors any decline in the quality of and changes in the composition maintain the soundness of their operations. To manage risk, Japan Post of the underlying assets as well as other factors. Also, credit risk with Bank identifies risks associated with business operations and evalusecuritization exposure is included in the calculation of credit risk and ates these risks based on the frequency of their occurrence and the interest rate risk is included in the calculation of market risk. In addiscale of their impact on operations. The Bank provides controls in action, the Bank is also aware of market liquidity risk and reports on the cordance with the importance of each risk, monitors these risks and state of these risks to the Executive Committee and other bodies. takes actions as required.  The procedure concerning re-securitization exposure is the same as  In addition, Japan Post Bank prepares a list of operational risks asVision for securitization exposure. sociated with business processes, products, computer systems and (2) Outline of the establishment and state of operation of a system preother items. The Bank periodically uses a Risk & Control Self scribed by Article 227, Paragraph 4-3 to 4-6 of Holding Company Assessment (RCSA) process to determine the effectiveness of manCapital Adequacy Ratio Notice (includes cases of application pursuagement systems aimed at reducing exposure to these risks. Based on ant to Article 232, Paragraph 2 and Article 280-4, Paragraph 1) of the results of RCSA, for areas in which it is recognized that risk manHolding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice. agement needs to be improved and areas that risk management espe For securitization exposure risk, Japan Post Bank operates a struccially needs to be reinforced, improvement plans are formulated and ture that ascertains on a timely basis information concerning compreimprovement plans for reducing risk are discussed and formulated.  Enhancing Corporate Value hensive risk characteristics and performance. Specifically, in addition Japan Post Bank is making preparations for using systems to report to the Bank periodically reviewing obligor ratings in the event that a actualized events such as clerical accidents or system problems. The decline in the quality of or change in the structure of underlying assets content of the reports analyzes the causes and tendencies of clerical has an impact on obligor ratings, the Bank provisionally reviews the accidents, system problems and other matters and is used as basic obligor ratings. data for taking effective countermeasures.  The procedures concerning re-securitization exposure are the same (2) The name of method used for the calculation of an amount equivalent as for securitization exposure. to operational risk (3) Policies on using securitization transactions as a credit risk mitigation Japan Post Bank uses the “basic indicator approach” with regard to the method calculation of an amount equivalent to operational risk. Japan Post Bank does not use securitization transactions as a credit risk mitigation method. 9. Summary of risk management policy and procedures for investments, (4) Name of method used to calculate amount of credit risk assets for shares and other exposure securitization exposure Japan Post Bank, which is a company engaged in the banking business Medium-term Strategy Japan Post Bank uses External Ratings-Based Approach and Standard that belongs to the Group as prescribed in Holding Company Capital Approach prescribed in the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice for calcuAdequacy Ratio Notice, monitors and manages exposure to investlating the amount of credit risk assets for securitization exposure. ments, stock, and other assets as owned by the bank in the banking (5) Name of method used for calculating an amount equivalent to market account based on the framework of market risk management and risk of securitization exposure credit risk management. It does so by establishing market risk limits Not applicable and loss limits so that the amount of market risk does not exceed the (6)  Distinguishing types of conduits for securitization and whether the amount of capital allocated for market risk, based on the Bank’s eqGroup is exposed to risks associated with securitization from securitiuity and other resources. zation transactions when using conduits for securitization in executing securitization transactions for third-party assets. 10. Interest rate risk Japan Post Group does not use conduits for securitization to execute (1) Summary of risk management policy and procedures securitization transactions involving third-party assets. Interest rate risk in the banking book is the risk of incurring a loss due (7) Among the Group’s subsidiaries (excluding consolidated subsidiaries, to a change in the value of assets and liabilities (including off-balanceetc.) and affiliate companies, names of those companies exposed to sheet assets and liabilities) or the risk of incurring a loss due to Sustainability risk associated with securitization transactions carried out by the changes in earnings generated from assets and liabilities due to Group (including securitization transactions using conduits for changes in interest rates. securitization)  As part of its monitoring of interest rate risk in the banking book, Not applicable Japan Post Bank Co. measures interest rate sensitivity (10BPV) daily (8) Accounting policy on securitized transactions and measures ΔEVE (measured as the amount of decline in economic For the recognition, valuation and accounting treatment of origination value of equity from an interest rate shock and calculated based on and extinguishment of financial assets and liabilities associated with interest rate shocks as prescribed by Capital Adequacy Ratio securitized transactions, Japan Post Bank applies ASBJ Statement No. Notification) monthly to evaluate the level of capital adequacy. 10 “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (January 22, 1999, (2)  Summary of method for calculating interest rate risk for internal Business Accounting Council). management (9) Name of qualified rating agencies used in making judgments on risk The main assumptions for calculation of interest rate risk (ΔEVE) in the weight for securitization exposure by category banking book of Japan Post Bank Co. are as follows. Data Compilation Japan Post Bank uses the ratings of the following credit rating agencies  • The Bank applies an internal model for estimating outstanding balfor the calculation of credit risk assets for securitization exposure: ances and allocating to settlement dates of liquid deposits that  Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) will remain on deposit in the Bank for a long term without being  Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) withdrawn (so-called core deposits). The average maturity for in Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) terest rate revisions is 3.5 years and the longest maturity for inter S&P Global Ratings (S&P) est rate revisions is 10 years.  • Interest rate risk relating to TEIGAKU deposits is calculated based 8. Operational risk on an estimated future cash flow model that considers the early (1) Summary of risk management policy and procedures dissolution rate.  Japan Post Group defines operational risk as the risk of incurring  • For aggregating multiple currencies, the ΔEVE calculated for each losses caused by inappropriate activity involving business processes, currency consisting of the Japanese yen, US dollar, euro, pound the activities of executives and employees or computer systems, or by and Australian dollar is aggregated factoring in cross-currency corexternal events. relations. For other currencies, calculation is performed based on  Japan Post Bank has seven categories of operational risk: processing the simple addition of just those positive currencies from among risk, IT system risk, information assets risk, legal risk, human resources the ΔEVE calculated for each currency. risk, tangible assets risk and reputational risk.  • Spread levels are included in discounted interest rates and cash  Japan Post Bank identifies, assesses, controls, monitors and mitiflows. gates risk for each risk category to manage operational risk and to JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 147 (2) Amount of required capital for credit risk (Off-balance-sheet items) Quantitative Disclosure (Millions of yen) 2019 1. Among subsidiaries that are Other Financial Institutions (referred to as Item (As of March Other Financial Institutions as prescribed under Article 18, Paragraph 31, 2019) 6-1 of Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice), names of the 1 Commitment lines that can be cancelled automatically or ¥— unconditionally at any time companies with shortage in the regulatory required capital and the total amounts of the regulatory required capital shortfall. 2 Commitment lines with original contracts of one year or — less None 3 Short-term trade contingent liabilities — 2. Capital adequacy 4 Contingent liabilities arising from specific transactions — (1) Amount of required capital for credit risk (On-balance-sheet items) (principal reimbursement trust deeds with restructuring) — (Millions of yen) 5 NIF or RUF — 2019 Item (As of March 6 Commitment lines with an original duration of one year or 182 31, 2019) longer 1 Cash ¥— 7 Contingent liabilities arising from directly substituted 16,848 credit 2 Japanese government and the Bank of Japan — (of which secured with loan guarantees) — 3 Foreign central governments and central banks 7,399 (of which secured with securities) — 4 Bank for International Settlements, etc. — (of which secured with drafts) — 5 Non-central government public sector entities — (of which principal reimbursement trust deeds without 6 Foreign non-central government public sector entities 5,368 — restructuring) 7 Multilateral Development Banks — (of which secured with credit derivative protection) 13,508 8 Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities 3,027 8 Assets sold with repurchase agreements or assets sold — 9 Japanese government agencies 12,328 with right of claim (after deductions) 10 Three regional public corporations under Japanese local Assets sold with repurchase agreements or assets sold 493 — governments with right of claim (before deductions) 11 Financial Institutions and Type I Financial Instruments Deduction — 75,599 Business Operators 9 Futures bought, forward delivery deposits, partially — 12 Corporates 213,334 subscribed equity shares, partially subscribed bonds 13 Small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals 4 10 Securities lending, cash or securities collateral, or sale of securities with repurchase agreement or purchase with 20,347 14 Mortgage loans — resale agreement 15 Project finance (acquisition of real estate) 80 11 Derivative transactions and long-term settlements 2,028 16 Past-due loans (three months or more) 823 transactions 17 Outstanding drafts — Current exposure method 2,028 18 Loans guaranteed by Credit Guarantee Corporation, etc. — Derivative transactions 2,028 19 Loans guaranteed by the Regional Economy Vitalization Foreign exchange related transactions 3,828 — Corporation of Japan (REVIC), etc. Interest rate related transactions 866 20 Investments in capital and others 5,965 Gold related transactions — of which, exposure to investments 5,965 Equity security related transactions 4 of which, exposure to significant investments — Precious metal related transactions — 21 Other than above 260,714 (excluding gold) of which, exposure to capital instruments other than Other commodity related transactions — those corresponding to subject common shares Credit derivative transactions (counterparty risk) 18 among capital instruments of Other Financial 30,950 Institutions as well as other external TLAC-related Netting effect on credit equivalent amount instruments under close-out netting agreement 2,690 (deduction) of which, exposure related to portions not included in 105,802 adjustment items among specified items Long-term settlements transactions 0 of which, exposure related to other external TLAC 12 Outstanding transaction — instruments associated with other financial — 13 The unexecuted portion of a credit facility for qualified institutions holding more than 10% of the voting servicer cash advance pertaining to securitization — rights for all shareholders exposure of which, exposure related to the portion exceeding the 14 Off-balance-sheet securitization exposure other than the 5% criteria amount associated with other external — above TLAC-related instuments among other external TLAC — Total ¥39,408 instruments associated with other financial institutions not holding more than 10% of the voting rights for all shareholders Note: Required capital is calculated using the following formula: of which, other exposure 123,962 Credit risk-weighted assets × 4% 22 Securitization transactions 12,572 of which, STC requirements are applied — of which, non-STC requirements are applied 12,572 23 Re-securitization transactions 49 24 Exposure to which deemed calculation of risk weight 1,683,716 is applied 25 Amount of items included in risk weighted assets through — transitional arrangements 26 Amount of items not included in risk weighted assets through transitional arrangements pertaining to exposure — concerning capital instruments of Other Financial Institutions Total ¥2,281,478 Note: Required capital is calculated using the following formula: Credit risk-weighted assets × 4% 148 (3) Total amount of consolidated required capital (Millions of yen) 2019 Item (As of March 31, 2019) Total amount of consolidated required capital ¥ 2,458,137 Amount of required capital for credit risk 640,247 Vision Portfolios where the standardized approach is applied 624,547 Securitization exposure 12,622 CVA risk equivalent amount 3,042 Central Counterparty risk exposure 35 Amount of required capital for credit risk pertaining to exposure for which deemed calculation of risk weight is 1,683,716 applied Amount of required capital for market risk equivalent amount — Enhancing Corporate Value Amount of required capital for operational risk equivalent amount 134,172 Basic indicator approach 134,172 Note 1: The total amount of consolidated required capital is the denominator of the consolidated capital adequacy ratio x 4%. Note 2: The amount of required capital for credit risk is the amount of credit risk assets x 4%. Note 3: The amount of required capital for operational risk equivalent amount is operational risk equivalent amount divided by 8% x 4%. Medium-term Strategy Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 149 3. Credit risk (1) Credit risk exposure by region, industry and customer (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) Counterparts Loans and deposits Securities Derivatives Others Total Sovereigns ¥56,122,074 ¥71,252,620 ¥ — ¥89,934 ¥127,464,628 Financial institutions 24,778,804 12,058,964 361,970 23,080 37,222,820 Domestic Corporates 419,855 5,827,850 — 378,906 6,626,612 Small and medium-sized — — — 200 200 enterprises and individuals Others 3,326,437 5,514,239 2,664 3,122,725 11,966,067 Domestic total 84,647,171 94,653,674 364,635 3,614,848 183,280,329 Overseas total 55,928 11,031 — 273,829 340,788 Investment trust, etc. 3,292,691 41,132,393 — — 44,425,085 Total ¥87,995,791 ¥135,797,099 ¥364,635 ¥3,888,677 ¥228,046,203 (Millions of yen) 2018 (As of March 31, 2018) Counterparts Loans and deposits Securities Derivatives Others Total Sovereigns ¥54,510,659 ¥75,611,042 ¥ — ¥71,151 ¥130,192,853 Financial institutions 27,550,278 10,845,606 557,518 918,083 39,871,486 Domestic Corporates 435,652 6,369,777 — 331,447 7,136,877 Small and medium-sized — — — 249 249 enterprises and individuals Others 7,437,524 5,263,995 4,457 3,060,981 15,766,957 Domestic total 89,934,114 98,090,421 561,975 4,381,913 192,968,424 Overseas total 62,345 — — 346,230 408,575 Investment trust, etc. 447,511 43,891,082 — — 44,338,594 Total ¥90,443,971 ¥141,981,503 ¥561,975 ¥4,728,143 ¥237,715,594 Note 1: All subsidiaries other than Japan Post Bank do not engage in loan operations, in principle, and therefore do not categorize credit by industry sector. Accordingly, a breakdown by customer is presented in the above table. Note 2: “Domestic” and “overseas” refer to the domicile of the main branch (head office). Note 3: “Loans and deposits” include loans and bills discounted, due from banks, call loans and off-balance-sheet assets, etc. other than derivatives. Note 4: “Securities” include Japanese government bonds, local government bonds, corporate bonds, etc. Note 5: “Derivatives” include forward interest rate swaps and currency swaps, etc. Note 6: “Sovereigns” include central governments, central banks, local governments, etc. Note 7: “Financial institutions” include the Multilateral Development Banks, Bank for International Settlements, etc., Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities, and Financial institutions and type I financial instruments business operators. Note 8: “Corporates” include Foreign public-sector entities other than central governments, Japanese government agencies, three regional public corporations under Japanese local governments and corporations, etc. Note 9: The exposure amount includes balances before the deduction of specific reserve for possible loan losses and after the application of credit risk mitigation methods. Note 10: Investment trusts and other funds are recorded in investment trust, etc. 150 (2) Credit risk exposure by maturity (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) Remaining period Loans and deposits Securities Derivatives Others Total 1 year or less ¥ 29,736,545 ¥ 14,284,657 ¥ 11,713 ¥ 441,786 ¥ 44,474,702 Vision Over 1 year to 3 years 721,304 26,478,058 30,161 — 27,229,524 Over 3 years to 5 years 872,048 28,302,943 200,406 40 29,375,438 Over 5 years to 7 years 683,267 5,399,932 122,354 — 6,205,553 Over 7 years to 10 years 321,770 10,170,551 — — 10,492,322 Over 10 years 532,170 8,989,077 — — 9,521,248 No due date or perpetual 51,835,993 1,039,484 — 3,446,850 56,322,328 Enhancing Corporate Value Investment trust, etc. 3,292,691 41,132,393 — — 44,425,085 Total ¥ 87,995,791 ¥135,797,099 ¥364,635 ¥3,888,677 ¥228,046,203 (Millions of yen) 2018 (As of March 31, 2018) Remaining period Loans and deposits Securities Derivatives Others Total 1 year or less ¥ 31,456,215 ¥ 13,425,874 ¥ 34,974 ¥ 457,656 ¥ 45,374,719 Over 1 year to 3 years 799,311 27,045,947 92,433 2 27,937,694 Over 3 years to 5 years 751,327 29,533,048 224,306 32 30,508,715 Over 5 years to 7 years 695,632 11,934,382 198,534 — 12,828,549 Over 7 years to 10 years 649,365 9,904,376 11,728 — 10,565,470 Medium-term Strategy Over 10 years 437,180 6,216,419 — — 6,653,600 No due date or perpetual 55,207,425 30,371 — 4,270,452 59,508,250 Investment trust, etc. 447,511 43,891,082 — — 44,338,594 Total ¥ 90,443,971 ¥141,981,503 ¥ 561,975 ¥4,728,143 ¥ 237,715,594 Note 1: “Loans and deposits” include loans and bills discounted, due from banks, call loans and off-balance-sheet assets, etc. other than derivatives. Note 2: “Securities” include Japanese government bonds, local government bonds, corporate bonds, etc. Note 3: “Derivatives” include forward interest rate swaps and currency swaps, etc. Note 4: The exposure amount includes balances before the deduction of specific reserve for possible loan losses and after the application of credit risk mitigation methods. Note 5: Investment trusts and other funds are recorded in investment trust, etc. Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 151 (3) Past-due loans for three months or more exposure by region, industry and customer (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) 2018 (As of March 31, 2018) Counterparts Loans and Loans and Securities Derivatives Others Total Securities Derivatives Others Total deposits deposits Sovereigns ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥ — ¥ — ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥ — ¥ — Financial institutions — — — — — — — — — — Corporates — — — 6 6 — — — 6 6 Domestic Small and mediumsized enterprises — — — 58 58 — — — 76 76 and individuals Others — — — 2,254 2,254 — — — 2,177 2,177 Domestic total — — — 2,319 2,319 — — — 2,259 2,259 Overseas total — — — — — — — — — — Investment trust, etc. — — — — — — — — — — Total ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥2,319 ¥2,319 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥2,259 ¥2,259 Note 1: “Past-due loans for three months or more” means the payment of principal or interest is past due three months or more from the day following the scheduled payment date. Note 2: “Domestic” and “overseas” refer to the domicile of the main branch (head office). Note 3: “Loans and deposits” include loans and bills discounted, due from banks, call loans and off-balance-sheet assets, etc. other than derivatives. Note 4: “Securities” include Japanese government bonds, local government bonds, corporate bonds, etc. Note 5: “Derivatives” include forward interest rate swaps and currency swaps, etc. Note 6: “Sovereigns” includes central governments, central banks, local governments, etc. Note 7: “Financial institutions” include the Multilateral Development Banks, Bank for International Settlements, etc., Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities, and Financial institutions and type I financial instruments business operators. Note 8: “Corporates” include Foreign public-sector entities other than central governments, Japanese government agencies, three regional public corporations under Japanese local governments and corporations, etc. Note 9: Exposures of certain subsidiaries are included in “Others” (exposure) under “Others” (counterparts). Note 10: The exposure amount includes balances before the deduction of specific reserve for possible loan losses and after the application of credit risk mitigation methods. Note 11: Investment trusts and other funds are recorded in investment trust, etc. (4) Year-end balances and changes during the period of general reserve for possible loan losses, specific reserve for possible loan losses, and loan loss reserve for specific overseas countries. Year-end balance (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) General reserve for possible loan losses ¥ 124 ¥ 138 Specific reserve for possible loan losses — — Loan loss reserve for specific overseas countries — — Change during the period (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) General reserve for possible loan losses ¥ (14) ¥ 11 Specific reserve for possible loan losses — — Loan loss reserve for specific overseas countries — — Note 1: Reserve for loan losses related to loans disclosed under the Financial Revitalization Law is listed. Note 2: General reserve for loan losses is not classified by region, industry and customer. (5) The amount of write-off of loans by industry and customer There were no write-offs. 152 (6) Amount of exposure by risk weight category (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) 2018 (As of March 31, 2018) Risk weight Rated Not rated Rated Not rated 0% ¥120,269,723 ¥31,114,561 ¥134,626,622 ¥27,193,345 2% — 43,817 — 11,728 Vision 4% — — — — 10% 575,247 3,838,976 169,340 4,176,537 20% 14,960,624 61,629 13,376,215 54,990 35% — — — — 50% 5,284,896 2,088 5,747,423 2,076 75% — 142 — 173 100% 1,875,326 4,216,463 1,466,745 5,165,449 150% 10,670 230 1 180 Enhancing Corporate Value 250% 54,545 1,312,175 144,026 1,242,146 1,250% — — — — Others — — — — Investment trust, etc. — 44,425,085 — 44,338,594 Total ¥143,031,033 ¥85,015,169 ¥155,530,374 ¥82,185,220 Note 1: Ratings are used for those rated by qualified rating agencies in principle. Note 2: The exposure amount includes balances before the deduction of specific reserve for possible loan losses and after the application of credit risk mitigation methods. Note 3: Regarding assets to which the Company applies credit risk mitigation techniques for a portion of its exposure, the Group records exposure amounts in weighted categories after the application of credit risk mitigation techniques. Note 4: Regarding assets to which the Company applied transitional arrangements, the Company records these assets in risk-weighted categories in case of that transitional arrangements are not applied. Medium-term Strategy Note 5: Investment trusts and other funds are recorded in investment trust, etc. The weighted average of risk weights was 94.75% as of March 31, 2019 (compares with 80.48% as of March 31, 2018) 4. Credit risk mitigation methods Exposure amount to which credit risk mitigation methods are applied (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) 2018 (As of March 31, 2018) Item Exposure amount Composition ratio Exposure amount Composition ratio Eligible financial collateral ¥22,224,031 89.54% ¥27,488,378 89.53% Guarantees and credit 2,595,329 10.46% 3,213,299 10.47% derivatives Total ¥24,819,360 100.00% ¥30,701,677 100.00% Note 1: Japan Post Bank accepts cash, self-deposits and securities as eligible financial collateral. Sustainability Note 2: Principal guarantors are central governments, etc. to which lower risk weight than the guaranteed obligations are applied. Note 3: Credit derivative counterparties are the financial institutions to which lower risk weightings than the reference obligations are applied. Note 4: The exposure included in Investment trusts and other funds are not included herein. Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 153 5. Derivative transactions and long-term settlements transactions 5. Derivative transactions and long-term settlements transactions (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 Item (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Aggregate sum of amounts of gross reconstruction costs ¥296,366 ¥437,947 Aggregate sum of gross add-on amounts 497,217 373,943 Gross credit equivalents 793,584 811,891 Foreign exchange related transactions 535,991 589,679 Interest rate related transactions 254,631 216,608 Stock related transactions 554 1,596 Credit derivative transactions (Counterparty risk) 2,359 3,958 Long-term settlements transactions 46 48 Reduction in credit equivalents through netting (deduction) 428,902 249,867 Net credit equivalents 364,681 562,024 Collateral amount 150,084 397,026 Marketable securities 127,588 169,340 Cash 22,496 227,686 Net credit equivalents (after consideration of effectiveness of risks mitigated ¥364,681 ¥562,024 by collateral) Note 1: Credit equivalents are calculated by the “current exposure method.” Note 2: Regarding derivative transactions and transactions with long-term settlements, only those transactions requiring the calculation of credit equivalents are included. Note 3: Derivative transactions and transactions with long-term settlements included in Investment trusts and other funds are not included herein. Note 4: Limited to transactions on which gross reconstruction costs are not less than zero. Note 5: Credit risk mitigation through collateral is considered through risk weighting, and credit equivalent amounts are not considered. Note 6: The amount of netting effect on credit equivalents through netting is equal to an amount that subtracts credit equivalents prior to considerations of credit risk mitigation using collateral from the aggregate sum of amounts of gross reconstruction costs and aggregate sum of gross add-on amounts. • Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 Item (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Total return swaps ¥ 116,293 ¥108,007 Purchase of protection 116,293 108,007 Among these, those that are used for considering the effects of 73,284 28,844 credit risk mitigation methods Provision of protection — — Note: Does not include credit derivatives that are included in investment trusts and other funds. 6. Securitization exposure Securitization exposure in which the Group invests: (1) Securitization exposure and breakdown by type of main underlying (2) R  e-securitization exposure and breakdown by type of main underlying assets (excluding re-securitization exposure) assets (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 2019 2019 Type of underlying assets Type of underlying assets (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2019) Mortgage loans ¥242,895 Mortgage loans ¥1,247 Auto loans 135,952 Auto loans — Leases 2,023 Leases — Accounts receivable 27,533 Accounts receivable — Corporate loans 1,188,309 Corporate loans — Others — Others — Total ¥1,596,713 Total ¥1,247 Note 1: There are no off-balance sheet transactions. Note 1: There are no off-balance sheet transactions. Note 2: Excludes securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. Note 2: Excludes re-securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. 154  (3) Balance by risk weight of securitization exposure and amount of (4) B  alance by risk weight of re-securitization exposure and amount of required capital (excluding re-securitization exposure) required capital (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 2019 2019 Risk weight (As of March 31, 2019) Risk weight (As of March 31, 2019) Balance Required capital Balance Required capital 15% or more and 100% ¥ 1,247 ¥ 49 ¥1,596,713 ¥12,572 Vision 20% or less Over 100% and less — — Over 20% and 45% than 1,250% — — or less 1,250% — — Over 45% and 70% — — Total ¥ 1,247 ¥ 49 or less Over 70% and 140% Note 1: There are no off-balance sheet transactions. — — Note 2: Excludes re-securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. or less Note 3:  There are no credit risk mitigation methods applied to re-securitization Over 140% and — — exposures. 225% or less Enhancing Corporate Value Note 4: Required capital is the amount of credit risk assets × 4%. Over 225% and — — 420% or less Over 420% and less — — than 1,250% 1,250% — — Total ¥1,596,713 ¥12,572 Note 1: There are no off-balance sheet transactions. Note 2: Excludes securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. Note 3: Required capital is the amount of credit risk assets × 4%. 7. Market risk Not applicable since the Group, based on Article 16 of Holding Company Capital Adequacy Ratio Notice, does not include the amount of market risk Medium-term Strategy equivalent in the calculation formulae prescribed under Article 14 of the Notice. 8. Equity exposure (1) Amount carried on the consolidated balance sheet and fair value (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Amount carried on the Amount carried on the consolidated balance Fair value consolidated balance Fair value sheet sheet Listed equities exposure (Note 1) ¥96,904 ¥96,904 ¥28,785 ¥28,785 Investment or equities exposure not corre4,888 1,384 sponding to listed equities exposure (Note 2) Total ¥101,792 ¥30,169 Sustainability Note 1: Shares with market quotations are listed. Note 2: S tocks for which fair value is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine are listed. Note 3: Shares held by the Bank’s subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are listed. The exposure included in Investment trusts and other funds are not included herein. The same applies to the following. (2) Gains and Losses on sale or write-off of investment or equity exposures (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) Gains/Losses ¥ (8,084) ¥ 195 Gains 177 195 Data Compilation Losses 1,527 — Write-off 6,734 — Note: Gains and losses on the sale of stock are listed in the Consolidated Statements of Income. (3) Amounts of valuation gains and losses recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet not recognized on the Consolidated Statements of Income (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Amounts of valuation gains and losses recognized on the Consolidated ¥ 5,124 ¥ 396 Balance Sheet not recognized on the Consolidated Statements of Income Note: Shares with market quotations are listed. JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 155 (4) Amounts of valuation gains and losses not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statements of Income (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Amounts of valuation gains and losses not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and ¥— ¥— the Consolidated Statements of Income Note: Shares with market quotations of affiliated companies are listed. 9. Balance and amount of required capital by each exposure calculation method for which deemed calculation of risk weight is applied (Millions of yen) 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) Calculation method Risk weight Balance Required capital Look-through approach (LTA) — ¥ 44,026,008 ¥ 1,524,470 Mandate-based approach (MBA) — — — 250% 94,185 9,418 Probability approach 400% 7,704 1,232 Fall-back approach (FBA) 1,250% 297,190 148,595 Total ¥ 44,425,088 ¥ 1,683,716 Note 1: The amount of required capital is the amount of credit risk-weighted assets x 4%. Note 2: Risk weight is as prescribed in the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notification. Note 3: Look-through approach (LTA) is as stipulated in 54-5-2 of the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notification. Note 4: Mandate-based approach (MBA) is as stipulated in 54-5-6 of the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notification. Note 5: The probability approach is as stipulated in 54-5-9 of the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notification. Note 6: Fall-back approach (FBA) is as stipulated in 54-5-10 of the Capital Adequacy Ratio Notification. 10. Interest rate risk (Millions of yen) Interest rate risk (A) (B) (C) (D) Item ∆EVE ∆NII number 2019 2018 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) 1 Upward parallel shift 538,125 2 Downward parallel shift 2,446,896 3 Steepening 4 Flattening 5 Rise in short-term interest rates 6 Decrease in short-term interest rates 7 Maximum value 2,446,896 (E) (F) 2019 2018 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) 8 Amount of equity 10,896,334 Note 1: In accordance with the disclosed definition by the Financial Service Agency, the directions of declines in economic value and interest income are denoted as a plus. Note 2: The sufficient securing of a capital surplus against interest rate risk measured with ΔEVE is confirmed. Note 3: Regarding the application of materiality tests, the “Comprehensive Guidelines for Supervision of Major Banks,” which is prescribed by the Financial Service Agency, states that “Japan Post Bank is legally obligated to hold safe assets that include government bonds for a portion of its assets. Accordingly, relevant special circumstances shall be appropriately considered in making responses in supervision (in the case of a materiality test).” 156 (2) Amount of required capital for credit risk (Off-balance-sheet items) Reference Information (Millions of yen) 2018 1. Capital adequacy Item (As of March (1) Amount of required capital for credit risk (On-balance-sheet items) 31, 2018) (Millions of yen) 1 Commitment lines that can be cancelled automatically or ¥— unconditionally at any time 2018 2 Commitment lines with original contracts of one year or Vision Item (As of March — 31, 2018) less 1 Cash ¥— 3 Short-term trade contingent liabilities — 2 Japanese government and the Bank of Japan — 4 Contingent liabilities arising from specific transactions — 3 Foreign central governments and central banks 13,702 (principal reimbursement trust deeds with restructuring) — 4 Bank for International Settlements, etc. — 5 NIF or RUF — 5 Non-central government public sector entities — 6 Commitment lines with an original duration of one year or 64,942 longer 6 Foreign non-central government public sector entities 7,257 7 Contingent liabilities arising from directly substituted 7 Multilateral Development Banks 0 29,740 credit Enhancing Corporate Value 8 Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities 3,194 (of which secured with loan guarantees) — 9 Japanese government agencies 12,201 (of which secured with securities) — 10 Three regional public corporations under Japanese local (of which secured with drafts) — 439 governments (of which principal reimbursement trust deeds without 11 Financial Institutions and Type I Financial Instruments — 199,813 restructuring) Business Operators (of which secured with credit derivative protection) 26,140 12 Corporates 931,310 8 Assets sold with repurchase agreements or assets sold 13 Small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals 5 — with right of claim (after deductions) 14 Mortgage loans — Assets sold with repurchase agreements or assets sold — 15 Project finance (acquisition of real estate) 54,661 with right of claim (before deductions) 16 Past-due loans (three months or more) 137,680 Deduction — 17 Outstanding drafts — 9 Futures bought, forward delivery deposits, partially 20,116 subscribed equity shares, partially subscribed bonds 18 Loans guaranteed by Credit Guarantee Corporation, etc. — 10 Securities lending, cash or securities collateral, or sale of Medium-term Strategy 19 Loans guaranteed by the Regional Economy Vitalization — securities with repurchase agreement or purchase with 14,058 Corporation of Japan (REVIC), etc. resale agreement 20 Investments in capital and others 66,451 11 Derivative transactions and long-term settlements 12,963 of which, exposure to investments 66,451 transactions of which, exposure to significant investments — Current exposure method 12,963 21 Other than above 351,826 Derivative transactions 12,960 of which, exposure to capital instruments other than Foreign exchange related transactions 11,334 those corresponding to subject common shares Interest rate related transactions 2,100 among capital instruments of Other Financial 117,519 Institutions as well as other external TLAC-related Gold related transactions 0 instruments Equity security related transactions 980 of which, exposure related to portions not included in Precious metal related transactions 106,189 0 adjustment items among specified items (excluding gold) of which, other exposure 128,117 Other commodity related transactions 259 22 Securitization transactions (as originator) — Credit derivative transactions (counterparty risk) 128 Re-securitization transactions — Netting effect on credit equivalent amount Sustainability 23 Securitization transactions (as investor and other) 18,486 under close-out netting agreement 1,845 (deduction) Re-securitization transactions 24 Long-term settlements transactions 2 24 Assets (assets comprised of pooled assets such as funds, 135,061 etc.) difficult to identify specifically 12 Outstanding transaction 0 25 Amount of items included in risk weighted assets through 13 Providing adequate liquidity related to securitization 1,155 — transitional arrangements exposure and adequate servicer cash advance 26 Amount of items not included in risk weighted assets 14 Off-balance-sheet securitization exposure other than the — through transitional arrangements pertaining to exposure above (455) concerning capital instruments of Other Financial Total ¥141,822 Institutions Total ¥1,932,792 Note: Required capital is calculated using the following formula: Credit risk-weighted assets × 4% Note: Required capital is calculated using the following formula: Data Compilation Credit risk-weighted assets × 4% JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 157 (3) Total amount of consolidated required capital (Millions of yen) 2018 Item (As of March 31, 2018) Total amount of consolidated required capital ¥ 2,236,545 Amount of required capital for credit risk 2,094,444 Assets (on-balance-sheet items) 1,932,792 Off-balance-sheet transactions, etc. 141,822 CVA risk equivalent amount 19,441 Central Counterparty risk exposure 388 Amount of required capital for market risk equivalent amount — Amount of required capital for operational risk equivalent amount 142,101 Basic indicator approach 142,101 Note 1: The total amount of consolidated required capital is the denominator of the consolidated capital adequacy ratio x 4%. Note 2: The amount of required capital for credit risk is the amount of credit risk assets x 4%. Note 3: The amount of required capital for operational risk equivalent amount is operational risk equivalent amount divided by 8% x 4%. 158 2. Securitization exposure Securitization exposure in which the Group invests: (1) Securitization exposure and breakdown by type of main underlying (2) R  e-securitization exposure and breakdown by type of main underlying assets (excluding re-securitization exposure) assets (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 2018 2018 Type of underlying assets Type of underlying assets (As of March 31, 2018) (As of March 31, 2018) Vision Mortgage loans ¥303,996 Mortgage loans ¥1,533 Auto loans 121,735 Auto loans — Leases 3,655 Leases — Accounts receivable 6,420 Accounts receivable — 571,627 — Corporate loans Corporate loans (23,266) (—) Others — Others — ¥1,007,435 ¥1,533 Total Total Enhancing Corporate Value (23,266) (—) Note 1: Amounts within parentheses are off balance sheet transaction amounts. Note 1: Amounts within parentheses are off balance sheet transaction amounts. Note 2: Excludes securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. Note 2: Excludes re-securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc.  (3) Balance by risk weight of securitization exposure and amount of (4) B  alance by risk weight of re-securitization exposure and amount of required capital (excluding re-securitization exposure) required capital (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 2018 2018 Risk weight (As of March 31, 2018) Risk weight (As of March 31, 2018) Balance Required capital Balance Required capital Less than 20% ¥ 49,477 ¥ 197 Less than 40% ¥ — ¥ — 20% 934,691 7,477 40% 1,533 24 Medium-term Strategy 50% — — 100% — — 100% — — 225% — — 350% — — 650% — — 23,266 11,633 — — 1,250% 1,250% (23,266) (11,633) (—) (—) ¥ 1,007,435 ¥ 19,308 ¥1,533 ¥24 Total Total (¥ 23,266) (¥ 11,633) (—) (—) Note 1: Amounts within parentheses are off balance sheet transaction amounts. Note 1: Amounts within parentheses are off balance sheet transaction amounts. Note 2: Excludes securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. Note 2: Excludes re-securitization exposure included in investment trust, etc. Note 3: Required capital is the amount of credit risk assets × 4%. Note 3:  There are no credit risk mitigation methods applied to re-securitization Note 4:  Corporate loans are the underlying type of assets in securitization exposures. exposure to which the 1,250% risk weight is applied. Note 4: Required capital is the amount of credit risk assets × 4%. Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 159 Compensation, etc., Subject to Disclosure 1. Matters concerning the establishment of an organizational system for majority of outside directors. The Committee is independent of subject executives and employees of the Company (Group) the business promotion department and has the authority to (1) Scope of subject executives and employees decide policies for determining compensation as well as deterThe following describes the scope of “subject executives” and “submine individual compensation. ject employees” (collectively referred to as “subject executives and 2) Determination of compensation for subject employees employees”) who are subject to disclosure as persons having a sigThe determination of compensation for executives of principal nificant impact on the operation of the banking business and state consolidated subsidiaries who are deemed subject employees is of assets as prescribed by the notification (Japan Financial Services as follows. Agency Notification No. 21 of March 29, 2012) for deciding matters (a) Japan Post determined separately by the Commissioner of the Financial  Executive compensation is determined under a structure Services Agency as an item concerning compensation based on prowhereby the total amount of executive compensation is devisions of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Act, Article termined at the Shareholders’ meeting. 19-2, Paragraph 1-6.  Individual allocation of directors’ compensation is deter1) Scope of “subject executives” mined on a resolution by the Board of Directors, according to Subject executives are the Company’s directors and executive ofthe total amount decided at the Shareholders’ meeting. ficers. Outside directors are excluded.  Individual allocation of compensation for auditors is de2) Scope of “subject employees” termined based on consultation by the auditors. Among Company executives (other than subject executives) and  Compensation for executive officers is determined based employees as well as executives and employees of subsidiaries, on a resolution by the Board of Directors. those “persons receiving high amounts of compensation” and (b) Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance who have a significant impact on the management of business Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance have respectively operations and the state of assets of the Company or its princiestablished a Compensation Committee as the body for depal subsidiaries are deemed “subject employees” who are subtermining the details of the compensation system and comject to disclosure. pensation for executives. The Compensation Committee (a) Scope of “principal consolidated subsidiaries” determines policies for deciding details of compensation for Principal consolidated subsidiaries are consolidated subsideach company’s directors and executive officers as well as iaries that have a significant impact on Group management. details of individual compensation. In accordance with the Specifically, the three business subsidiaries are in this Companies Act, the Compensation Committee is composed category. of a majority of outside directors. The Committee is indepen(b) Scope of “persons receiving high amounts of compensation” dent of the business promotion department and has the au“Persons receiving high amounts of compensation” are those thority to determine policies for determining compensation persons receiving compensation exceeding standard as well as determine individual compensation. amounts from the Company and its principal consolidated  The Human Resources Division, which is independent subsidiaries. The Company has set the Group standard from the Corporate Administration Division, has established a amount at ¥28 million. The relevant standard amount is set performance-linked compensation system based on profesbased on the average basic compensation (excludes persons sional position salary regulations for professional positions at who assume positions or retire from positions during the Japan Post Bank. Compensation based on this system is determ in each fiscal year) for the past three years for executermined after deliberation at the Evaluation Committee that tives of the Company and Japan Post Bank and this serves as is composed of executive officers such as the President and a common standard amount for the Group. However, beRepresentative Executive Officer of Japan Post Bank. cause there are no large differences in compensation systems (3) Determination of compensation for staff of the Risk Management and levels for the Company’s principal consolidated subsidDepartment and Compliance Department iaries, these are also applied in common at principal consoliCompensation for staff of the Risk Management Department and dated subsidiaries. Compliance Department is determined based on salary rules and (c) Scope of “persons having a significant impact on the manageregulations. Specific amounts paid are decided by determining comment of the Group’s business or the state of its assets” pensation separate from the sales promotion department by setting “Persons having a significant impact on the management of amounts based on employee performance evaluations, with the the Group’s business or the state of its assets” refers to pergeneral manager of the relevant departments as the person making sons who engage in regular business transactions and manfinal decisions. age matters that have a considerably significant impact on  Assessment categories of employee performance evaluations the management of the Company, Japan Post Group and its encompass assessments of the execution of duties and attainment principal consolidated subsidiaries, or persons who would levels for targets for each job responsibility in the Risk Management exert a significant impact on the state of assets by incurring Department and Compliance Department. These assessments relosses from business transactions or other matters. flect the level of contribution to the risk management structure and Specifically, this refers to executives of principal consolidated compliance readiness. subsidiaries or executive officers with authority to execute (4)  Total amount of compensation paid to members of the the business of business departments in accordance with Compensation Committee and number of times the Compensation resolutions by the Board of Directors as well as to profesCommittee and other meetings convened sional positions at Japan Post Bank. (Referred to hereafter as Number of times management employees for whom a performance-linked convened (From Company name Name of meeting compensation system is applicable based on professional April 2018 to position salary regulations and who perform duties for the March 2019) execution of business using especially sophisticated and exJapan Post Compensation 3 times pert knowledge in the Investment Division of Japan Post Holdings Committee Bank). Shareholders’ meeting 1 time (2)  Determination of compensation for subject executives and Board of Directors 2 times employees Japan Post 1) Determination of compensation for subject executives Board of Corporate 1 time Auditors The Company has established the Compensation Committee as the body for determining the details of the compensation sysCompensation 3 times tem and compensation for executives. The Compensation Japan Post Bank Committee Committee determines policies for deciding details of compenEvaluation Committee 7 times sation for the Company’s directors and executive officers as well Japan Post Compensation 4 times as details of individual compensation. In accordance with the Insurance Committee Companies Act, the Compensation Committee is composed of a 160 Note: T  he total amount of compensation is not listed because this employees, compensation is determined based on salary rules and amount cannot be calculated separating only the portion corregulations. responding to compensation for the execution of duties of the Compensation Committee. 3. Matters concerning consistency between the compensation system for subject executives and employees of the Company (Group) and risk 2. Matters concerning evaluation of the appropriateness of the design and management and the link between compensation and performance operation of the compensation system for subject executives and em In determining compensation for subject executives, the ployees of the Company (Group) Compensation Committee decides on policies concerning the determiVision (1) Policies concerning compensation for “subject executives” nation of details of compensation, after which details of compensation The Company determines compensation for the Company’s direcfor each individual are determined. tors according to job responsibilities based on the scope and size of  In determining compensation for subject employees, compensation responsibilities for management and other areas. For executive offifor directors and auditors of Japan Post is determined based on resolucers, the Company has designed a compensation system that contions at the Shareholders’ meeting, while compensation for executive siders job content as an executive officer, personal evaluations and officers is determined based on resolutions by the Board of Directors. job performance. As a specific executive compensation system, Regarding executives of Japan Post Bank and Japan Post Insurance, the compensation for executives consists of base compensation. Compensation Committee decides on policies concerning the determi(2) Policies concerning compensation for “subject employees” nation of details of compensation, after which details of compensation Enhancing Corporate Value  In determining compensation for Company employees, the for each individual are determined. In determining compensation for Company determines compensation for directors and auditors acprofessional positions at Japan Post Bank, the scheme for determining cording to job responsibilities based on the scope and size of recompensation is discussed at the Evaluation Committee, after which sponsibilities for management and in other areas. For executive details of compensation for each individual are determined. officers and executives, the Company has designed a compensation Compensation for other employees is determined based on salary system that considers job content as an executive officer or execurules and regulations. tive, personal evaluations and job performance. As a specific com Compensation for subject executives and subject employees takes pensation system, compensation consists of base compensation. into consideration the state of employee evaluations and the appropri The Company determines compensation for employees based ateness of amounts paid without excessive emphasis on performance on employee evaluations to reflect the degree of attainment of tarbased systems. gets and job behavior. As a specific compensation system for 4. Matters concerning the types of compensation for subject executives and employees of the Company (Group), total amount paid and payment method Total amount of compensation for subject executives and employees (From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Medium-term Strategy Total amount of compensation (Millions of yen) Number of Retirement Classification Total fixed compensation Total variable compensation Other persons benefits Base compensation Bonuses Stock compensation Subject executives 36 1,148 946 946 202 0 202 0 0 (excluding outside executives) Subject employees, etc. 60 2,365 1,504 1,504 860 456 486 0 6 Note 1: C ompensation for subject executives is listed including compensation as executives of principal consolidated subsidiaries. Note 2: Stock-compensation type stock options are not applicable. Note 3: The retirement benefits system for directors, auditors, executive officers and executives was discontinued in June 2013 and therefore retirement benefits are not applicable. 5. Other special pertinent matters for reference or other applicable matters other than those specified up to the previous item concerning the systems for compensation for subject executives and employees of the Company (Group) There are no applicable matters besides those specifically listed in the previous items. Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 161 Consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Japan Post Group) (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 Item (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Total amount of solvency margin (A) ¥19,013,897 ¥19,026,975 Capital stock, etc. 11,979,784 11,696,279 Reserve for price fluctuations 897,492 916,743 Contingency reserve 1,962,755 2,114,348 Catastrophe loss reserve — — General reserve for possible loan losses 360 399 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (before taxes), net deferred 3,164,450 3,414,011 gains (losses) on hedges (before taxes) × 90% (if negative, × 100%) Net unrealized gains (losses) on real estate × 85% (if negative, × 100%) 162,606 80,067 Sum of unrecognized actuarial differences and unrecognized prior service cost (before 257,681 298,658 taxes) Capital raised through debt financing, Excess of continued Zillmerized reserve 589,649 506,467 Excess of continued Zillmerized reserve 489,649 506,467 Capital raised through debt financing 100,000 — Amounts within “excess of continued Zillmerized reserve” and “capital raised — — through debt financing” not calculated into the margin Solvency margin concerning small-amount, short-term insurers — — Deductions (882) — Other — — （ R1 ＋ R 5 ＋R8 ＋R9 ）＋ （ R2 ＋ R3＋R7 ）＋R4＋R6 2 2 2 2 Total amount of risk (B) ¥5,669,162 ¥5,265,094 Insurance risk R1 142,209 147,403 General insurance risk R5 — — Catastrophe risk R6 — — Underwriting risk of third-sector insurance R8 59,172 63,087 Small amount and short-term insurance risk R9 — — Anticipated yield risk R2 141,866 150,450 Minimum guarantee risk R7 — — Investment risk R3 5,233,052 4,802,912 Business management risk R4 290,473 307,261 （Ａ） Solvency margin ratio ×１００ 670.7% 722.7% （１／２） ×（Ｂ） Note: T  he solvency margin ratio is calculated in accordance with Article 210 paragraph 11, section 3 and section 4 of the Enforcement Regulation of the Insurance Business Act and with Ordinance No. 23 issued by the Financial Services Agency in 2011. 162 Non-consolidated Solvency Margin Ratio (Japan Post Insurance Co.) (Millions of yen) 2019 2018 Item (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2018) Vision Total amount of solvency margin (A) ¥5,649,027 ¥5,591,395 Capital stock, etc. 1,632,636 1,554,861 Reserve for price fluctuations 897,492 916,743 Contingency reserve 1,962,755 2,114,348 General reserve for possible loan losses 45 60 (Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities (before taxes)/Net deferred 568,785 501,809 gains (losses) on hedges (before taxes)) × 90% (if negative, × 100%) Enhancing Corporate Value Net unrealized gains (losses) on real estate × 85% (if negative, × 100%) (2,336) (2,896) Excess of continued Zillmerized reserve 489,649 506,467 Capital raised through debt financing 100,000 — Amounts within “excess of continued Zillmerized reserve” and “capital raised through — — debt financing” not calculated into the margin Deductions — — Other — — 2 2 Total amount of risk （ R1＋R 8 ） ＋（ R2＋R3＋R7 ）＋ R4 (B) ¥950,952 ¥989,104 Insurance risk R1 142,209 147,403 Medium-term Strategy Underwriting risk of third-sector insurance R8 59,172 63,087 Anticipated yield risk R2 141,866 150,450 Minimum guarantee risk R7 — — Investment risk R3 764,830 792,377 Business management risk R4 22,161 23,066 （Ａ） Solvency margin ratio ×１００ 1,188.0% 1,130.5% （１／２） ×（Ｂ） Note: T  he solvency margin ratio is calculated in accordance with Article 86 and Article 87 of Ordinance for Enforcement of the Insurance Business Act and with Ministry of Finance Official Notification No. 50 issued in 1996. Sustainability Data Compilation JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 163 Data Compilation 7. Japan Post Group Privacy Policy ❶ Japan Post Group Privacy Policy Japan Post Group (“the Group”) is dedicated to providing services that can achieve a high degree of customer satisfaction. Properly protecting and the treatment of personal information is vital to accomplishing this goal. Accordingly, the Group has established the following fundamental policy (hereinafter referred to as “the Privacy Policy”) for protecting personal information. (1) Compliance with laws and regulations (6) Procedures for requesting disclosure of personal data When handling personal information, the Group complies with The Group responds in a sincere manner in cases where there all laws and regulations associated with protecting personal are requests for the notification of the purpose of use or for the information, national government policies and the provisions of disclosure, correction or termination of use of retained perthe Privacy Policy (“laws, regulations, etc.,” hereafter). sonal data as prescribed by laws, regulations, etc. The disclosure request procedures for each company can (2) Purpose of using personal information be found on their respective websites and where applicable. The Group specifies the purpose of using personal information and does not use this information beyond the scope necessary (7) Points of contact for inquiries for achieving this purpose. Requests regarding retained personal data set forth in the preThe purposes for which Group companies use personal inceding section and inquiries and requests regarding treatment formation are listed in the privacy policies on each company’s of personal information can be made to designated points of website and where applicable. contact. (3) Acquisition of personal information (8) Continuous improvements The Group acquires personal information using methods that The Group constantly reviews and improves its management are legal and proper. and handling methods for the protection of personal information in response to advances in information technology and (4)  Security measures for management of personal shifts in social demands. information The Group uses an appropriate security management system to prevent leaks, losses or alterations of personal information. In addition, the Group properly supervises persons engaged in the business of handling personal information, outsourcing parties and others. (5) Provision of personal information to third parties Except in cases where required by laws and regulations, the Group does not supply personal information to third parties without the prior consent of each individual. In cases where two or more Group companies share the same personal information, this sharing is performed only after providing prior notice or public announcements of items required by law. Irrespective of the above, specific personal information shall not be provided to third parties or shared jointly except when prescribed by laws or ordinances. 164 ❷ Sharing of Personal Data among Japan Post Group Companies Japan Post Group began with the October 2007 privatization (2) Scope of parties involved in shared use of Japan’s postal system. Japan Post Group companies consist Shared use is limited to Japan Post Group. However, this applies of Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan Post Co., Ltd., Japan only to companies included in the consolidated financial statePost Bank Co., Ltd., Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. and several ments, including equity-method affiliates, of Japan Post other subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Holdings, as prescribed by laws, regulations, etc., and is limited Vision Each Japan Post Group company uses its respective specialto the following companies: ized skills to provide high-quality services. The objective is to Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd, Japan Post Co., Ltd, Japan achieve even greater customer satisfaction. Post Bank Co., Ltd, Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. To accomplish this goal, Japan Post Group wishes to share customers’ personal data solely to the degree required and (3) Purpose of use within the scope explained below. This data is used to conduct 1) Distribution of information about services and research Enhancing Corporate Value business activities performed directly by Group companies or and development involving services through outsourcing parties. 2) Decisions involving the provision of services The Group asks for customers’ understanding and pledges 3) For the proper management of Group business operathat strict information management will be used during the tions primarily for the purpose of monitoring and managshared use of personal data. ing risks (1) Personal data items for shared use (4)  Name of party with responsibility for managing personal Shared use covers names, birth dates, addresses, telephone data numbers and other contact information, family members, ocJapan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. cupations and data concerning business transactions with the Group. However, this excludes information about materials sent Medium-term Strategy or delivered by postal mail or any sensitive information. Data Compilation 8. Japan Post Group’s Approach to Procurement Activity Japan Post Group conducts its procurement activity according 3. Environmental considerations Sustainability to the following concept. • The Group carries out procurement activity in consideration of global and local environmental preservation and the Japan Post Group’s Approach to Procurement Activity effective use of resources. 1. Open, fair and appropriate procurement • The Group opens the door widely to suppliers and offer fair 4. Building trusting relationships entry opportunities. • Through good communication with suppliers, the Group Data Compilation • The Group selects suppliers based on a comprehensive builds strong trust and strives for mutual prosperity. and appropriate evaluation of quality, price, delivery • The Group appropriately manages information about period, technology, business condition and other factors. suppliers that it obtains through its procurement activity. 2. Compliance with laws, regulations and social standards 5. Request to suppliers (Compliance with the UN Global Compact) • The Group complies with all applicable laws, regulations • The Group supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global and social standards and carries out procurement activity Compact regarding the four areas of human rights, labor, in good faith. the environment and anti-corruption and promotes CSR • In its procurement activity, the Group forms no relationship procurement activity. The Group expects its suppliers to with anti-social forces that pose a threat to the order and understand the above and asks for their proactive safety of civil society. cooperation. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 165 9. J  apan Post Group Conflicts of Data Compilation Interest Management Policy Japan Post Group (“the Group”) conducts business activities 3. The Group will select one or a combination of the following fairly based on laws, ordinances and internal regulations so methods and other measures to manage transactions with that the interests of customers are not unduly impaired due to a conflict of interest: transactions that may give rise to a conflict of interest. (1) Separate the business unit conducting the target transaction and the business unit conducting the secondary 1. T  he following representative examples of companies in transaction with the customer Japan Post Group (“Group companies”) fall within the scope (2) Amend the terms and conditions or method of the tarof the Conflicts of Interest Management Policy. get transaction or the secondary transaction with the • Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. customer • Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (3) Discontinue the target transaction or the secondary • Japan Post Co., Ltd. transaction with the customer (4) Properly disclose to the customer that the target trans2. T  he Group will manage conflicts of interest for the transacaction may unduly impair his or her interests tions stipulated below. (1) T  ransactions that may unduly impair the interests of 4. The Group will establish a department that handles concustomers among the following transactions: flicts of interest independent from business departments • Transaction with a customer that has an interest in that will specify target transactions and properly manage one of the Group companies based on an agreement conflicts of interest. In addition, the Group will educate and • Transaction with a party that has conflicting interests train executives and employees so that they comply with or is competing with a customer that has an interest in laws, ordinances and internal regulations set down regardone of the Group companies based on an agreement ing the management of conflicts of interest. • Transaction that makes wrongful use of information gained from a customer with an interest in one of the 5. The Group will continuously review its management stance Group companies based on an agreement regarding conflicts of interest and strive to make (2) A  ny transaction aside from the aforementioned that may improvements. unduly impair the interests of the customer due to a conflict of interest 10. J  apan Post Group Information Data Compilation Security Declaration Services provided by Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan customers to use our services with confidence. Our activities Post Co., Ltd., Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. and Japan Post reflect this awareness of the importance of information secuInsurance Co., Ltd. as Japan Post Group are used by a large rity. We place priority on the following items in order to mannumber of customers. We believe that information about age information about customers safely and to protect this these customers must be strictly managed, and the services information from leaks and alterations resulting from unauused by customers must be absolutely safe. thorized access and from disruptions in services caused by acWe understand that information security is essential for cidents, natural disasters and other events. 1. Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd., Japan Post Co., Ltd., Japan Post Bank Co., Ltd. and Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. will establish information security policies and follow the policies for the purpose of conducting information security activities. 2. We will conduct a continuous information security training program for the purpose of maintaining a strong awareness among employees of the importance of information security and reinforcing that awareness. 3. We will conduct continuous inspections of information security activities and make revisions and improvements whenever needed for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of information security activities. 166 11. D  eclaration by Top Management regarding the Data Compilation Elimination of Relationships with Antisocial Forces To eliminate any relationships with antisocial forces and prevent damage to the organization, Japan Post Group has made the following declaration in line with the Fundamental Policy for Establishment of Internal Control Systems. 1. Organizational response or a criminal court, or both. Japan Post Group In firm recognition of its social responsibility will never negotiate in secrecy with antisocial Vision and to strengthen management based on forces, even if their unjustified demands are to compliance, Japan Post Group, as an conceal matters related to any misconduct of organization in its entirety, will ensure that any the Group’s own activities or that of its staff. relationships with antisocial forces are eliminated. 4. Cooperation with outside experts Japan Post Group will establish close Enhancing Corporate Value 2. Complete elimination of relationships, relationships with outside experts in including transactions preparation for any unjustified demands by Japan Post Group will have no relationships antisocial forces in order to ensure the safety whatsoever with antisocial forces, including of its staff against such demands. transactions. 5. Prohibiting financing for antisocial forces 3. Legal measures and prohibition of secret Japan Post Group will never engage in financing negotiations for antisocial forces. Japan Post Group will strongly refuse any unjustified demands by antisocial forces and will take legal measures, either via a civil court Medium-term Strategy Data Compilation 12. Disclosure Policy Fundamental policy for our IR activities, so that each division works together in an organic Japan Post Group has stipulated in its Charter of Corporate Conduct manner to ensure appropriate information disclosure. Furthermore, Sustainability to “fulfill our responsibility to explain our operations by conducting the Company has established the Disclosure Committee for discushighly transparent business operations and disclosing information in a sions about information disclosure. fair manner” to earn the trust of customers. To achieve sustainable growth and mediumto long-term improvement in our enterprise Method of disclosing information value, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) shall disclose inThe Company shall make disclosure as required based on the formation in a fair and accurate manner to its shareholders, investors, Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan, other related laws and other stakeholders. In addition, the management shall make efand regulations, securities listing regulations of the Tokyo Stock forts to actively communicate with them and share among its own Exchange, etc. through prescribed means including the Electronic staff the requests, expectations, and so on obtained through this Disclosure for Investors' NETwork (EDINET), which is operated by the communication. Financial Services Agency, the Timely Disclosure network (TDnet), which is operated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and through the Data Compilation Standards for information disclosure Company's website. The Company shall comply with the Financial Instruments and Disclosure of information through methods other than the above Exchange Act of Japan, other applicable laws and regulations and the shall be made through the Company's website and other means. securities listing regulations stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, manage important information about the Company and its subsidiarFuture outlook ies, and swiftly disclose it in a timely manner. Information disclosed of the Company might include forward-looking Moreover, the Company shall not only disclose information in acstatements. Such statements have been prepared in accordance with cordance with the aforementioned laws and regulations and other reljudgments made by the management based on the information availevant rules and regulations, but it shall also strive to voluntarily able to the Company at the time of disclosure and on certain assumpdisclose information that will contribute to the deepening of undertions that the Company believes to be reasonable in making its standing of the Company and its subsidiaries at occasions such as inpredictions of the future, thereby containing various risks, as well as vestor information meetings. some degree of indeterminacy and uncertainty. Accordingly, actual figures and financial results may differ from the forward-looking stateEstablishment of internal systems ments included in the disclosed information depending on future The Company shall strive to establish and reinforce its internal sysbusiness operation as well as changes in economic and other tems by appointing the executive officer in charge of the Corporate circumstances. Planning Division to be responsible for establishing the internal system JAPAN POST GROUP Annual Report 2019 167 Recent Events of Japan Post Group 2018.2.23 2019.1.15 Announced price revision beginning from 2019 new year’s post Japan Post Insurance Co. began providing cards (same 62 yen as for regular postcards). “Sukoyakanpo” health support app. 2018.4.2 2019.1.15 Establishment of Japan Post Real Estate Co. Japan Post Co. started demonstration test to realize application of delivery robots to the logistics field. 2018.5.15 Formulation of Japan Post Group Medium-term Management 2019.2.5 Plan 2020. Japan Post Co. held “POST LOGITECH INNOVATION PROGRAM 2018” Demo Day. 2018.8.30 Japan Post Bank Co. invested in “Tokyo SME Support 2 LP” and 2019.2.6 “Healthcare New Frontier Investment LP.” Japan Post Co. constructed a complex combining a nursery school and a facility for the elderly 2018.9.10 called “Granda Mejiro Nibankan.” Japan Post Co. started demonstration testing of “Information Bank,” a new structure for use of personal data. 2019.3.5 Japan Post Bank Co. invested in “Kyoto-University-Venture 2018.9.25 NVCC No.2 Investment LP.” Japan Post Co. started Yu-Pack Smartphone Discount. 2019.3.18 Japan Post Co. started delivery plan notifications using LINE’s “Notification Message” and upgraded and expanded designated location delivery service. 2018.10.1 Launch of JP TOLL LOGISTICS Co. 2019.3.18 Japan Post Co. started demonstration test for self-driving 2018.10.10 delivery cars. Japan Post Co. started conducting a trial for the provision of “end of life” services. 2019.3.28 Japan Post Bank Co. invested in “Aomori Bank Regional 2018.10.31 Vitalization LP.” Japan Post Bank Co. invested in “Succession Investment LP, I.” 2019.4.1 2018.11.7 Japan Post Bank Co. launched a face-to-face consultation Japan Post Co. started deliveries service for iDeCo (individual-type defined contribution pension between post offices using small plan) at post offices handling investment trusts. unmanned drones. 2019.4.1 2018.12.19 Japan Post Insurance Co. launched new products; Kampo ni Japan Post Holdings Co., Aflac Incorporated and Aflac Life Omakase, products with relaxed underwriting criteria; and an Insurance Japan Ltd. concluded the “Strategic Alliance Based advanced medical rider. on Capital Relationship.” 2018.12.25 Japan Post Bank Co. invested in “TOKYO Relationship No.1 Investment, L.P.” Product with Non-participation advanced relaxed medical rider underwriting criteria
