INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 1 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 Report For: United Nations Global Compact Report Date: December 4, 2020 Report by Innovative Global Wave Technology Co., Ltd COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 2 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY Profile Global Wave Technology is the fastest growing and the best reputable software development company in Myanmar. Since 2005, we provide End to End solutions from the basic site surveying to implementation that make our clients to simplify their day-to-day business activity, so they can concentrate in main business needs and boost profitability. We expert in retail solutions and HR solutions for projects ranging from web development and multi-platform systems integration to network security and technical support. With competent professionals using living technologies, we help clients meet the demands and challenges shaping technology and business today. We have the nationwide ICT expertise of every size and complexity in oil and gas, banking, technology, manufacturing, trading, service, etc. Find out more about our business at http://www.globalwave.com.mm. Our company brings you the definite bottom-line benefits of reliable IT Solutions. The services offered cover Customized Software Development, Application Development, Web Application Development, Open-Source Development, E-commerce Packages and Web sites. Company details Headquarters :: Yangon, Myanma Year founded :: 2005 Company type :: Partnership Company size :: 51-200 employees Specialties :: Enterprise Invoice Management, Enterprise Expense Management Platforms, Loan management system, Digital wallet, Payroll Software, Attendee Tracking, Invoice Management, Integration with accounting platforms to disburse credit, Insurance CRM, smart billing, smart city, Personal loans platform, Accounting software, Electronic Invoicing Tools, Enterprise Spend Analytics Tools, Salary loans, POS system, government innovative projects, egovernance, HRM, FinTech, etc. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 3 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Human Rights. Our employee Handbook is revised on a regular basis to incorporate our business’s growth and reflect on any experiences the company encounters. We respect and follow international human rights in areas covering equal opportunities for all staff and employees, gender equality, nonracial discrimination, and non-child labors. Implementation Regarding implementation Human Rights Policies, addressing Human Rights risks and responding to Human Rights related concerns, first and foremost, within our own company’s works sites, we have taken the following implementations: 1. The responsibilities for the respect and support of Human Rights within our company have been assigned to the HR department. And Progress of Employee Handbook will be Complete of Revision (Version 1.1) soon 2021. In there, Human Right, Employee Benefits and Discipline will be included as per agreement of all Employee’s in human beings. Note: all the contents – Rules and Regulation are exceeded to meet with Myanmar law and UN Global Compact’s instructions within ten principles. 2. We have also clearly stated and forced non-child labors. We also set out our respect for employee’s right to freedom of speech and freedom of association. We announced the clear advertisement of Job Vacancy by the requirements that: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 4 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY (i) Job candidates who do not have NRC (or) not yet 18th years Old to protect for non-child labors are not accepted to apply. (ii) Employee’s right to entitled that by arranging of Onboarding Training, Skill and Engagement Training are also setting down for Personal and Staffs Development. And have planned to establish the Leadership, Management Training also in progress. (i) Employee’s Care and Welfare Program will be founded & make contribution are Start ongoing end of 2020. Measurement of Outcome During the past year, there is no single case of Human Rights abuses has been reported in our company. It reflects the interests in respect for and implementation of Human Rights principles in them entirely within our company. Regarding with the implementation Done, Progress and Plans: 1. Employee satisfied in work and have low turnover percentage. Because of Company have been entitled them with human rights, no discriminations in (religions, skins color, personal weakness, and management) 2. Until 2020-year end, we do not need to solve the issues and employee do not the complicit in human right abuses. But we still need to check and monitor by KPI to them with require reviewing their performance appraisal yearly. So that Human Right abuses can be reduce more if they satisfied for their Performance Entitlement. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 5 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our company rules and regulations cover concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed and incorporate with Myanmar Labor Laws and Global Compact Principles. Implementation All employees are entitled to overtime, casual leave, earned leave, medical leave, and maternity leave, etc. We have taken initiatives to promote and integrate diversity at every level within company. Our ethic follows along the guidelines of Myanmar Labor Laws. Employee’ information is all gathered in our HR software systems to document every detail of each person work data and to avoid complications and complaints. We encourage complete understanding of equality with freedom of speech and diversity in the workforce. Previously, we can be implemented for our objectives as per planned & reported. Moreover, we have been set down with all Heads of Departments (HOD) and starting to be established for standardization of SOP (Standard Operations Procedure). Conclusion, our Objectives are to be meet the expectation of ISO, UN Global Compact Principles (which will be include (Documented Procedures, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 6 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY Environmental Discipline, OHS-Occupational Health and Safety, Public Health). (i) Business uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. (ii) Company had been made the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. We just only get agreements and proceed to perform for instructions, Rules & Regulation between Company and Employee. (iii) Have been shown at above implementation of Human Rights Principles that effectively abolition of child labor. (iv) Have been mentioned at above and company do not have discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. And so, many kinds of difference religion staffs are working with satisfaction in individual Departmental. Measurement of Outcomes There is an effective line of communication between staff members and top management for new and better ideas and suggestions without any barriers to further the company’s growth. We encourage employees to be Integrity, honest, transparent and be open about their worries, stresses, and feelings & Ethics are to establish a positive thinking, Emotional and healthy work environment. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 7 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals We are software development technology and stand as model of our clients and community as the influencer the environmental awareness and follow environmental responsibility. Energy efficiency measures are taken to prove economic benefits to the company. Save Paper printing measures are taken for saving tree. And reduce the use of water and for electricity – saving Energy, Separate Damages / Wages to be use for Recycle that saving Cost and Effect for bypass materials. Implementation (i) Done Water treatment systems are installed to provide water that is clean of bacteria, virus and other microorganisms that could cause harm for consumption and public health. And putting the indoor plants inside office rooms for fresh air. (ii) Progress Prohibited instruction to follow are advertising at all round aeras of Company that no smoking, no beta chewing, COVID-19 protection awareness. (iii) Planned – Training within (6 – 12) months, such as OHS (Occupational Health & Safety), Fire Fighting and First Aid and ISO. (iv) Business was doing initiatively to promote the greater environmental responsibilities by undertaking as our growth of Organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 8 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY (v) Business will be encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies by analyzing of their business performance and how is they are doing with Correction, Preventing for Environmental risks, and benefits. Measurement of outcomes Reviews of procedures and processes are evaluated by top management to ensure efficiency. Regarding with the business performance by Completion, Progress and Plans, will be more perfect and exceed with the ten principles in future that we have reviewed. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Internally, we have maintained a check and balance system with CRM system over all daily transactions. These records are maintained with proper approve about where each penny goes to and what is done with it. Then checked and controlled by finance and ultimately reached to the CEO and Management Team. In Addition, we have controlling use of Authority Letter Heads and Invoice Issuing. And will be monitored details in evidence soon by HR and Administration Department. Implementation Done: All incomes, outcomes and transactions are registered in our CRM system. Company’s executive level uses a check and balance system over every transactions made. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 9 INNOVATIVE GLOBAL WAVE TECHNOLOGY In progress: Department Head of Finance, Chief Accountant had employed for more Check and Standardization. And planned for ISO Auditing Process for all departments. Measurement of outcomes Employees are well trained and fully aware of zero tolerance of extortions and bribery. Corruption is kept to almost zero each year. By making Agreement with all employees Admission that attached in Employee Contract as per labor law. Conclusion: Business of our Organization will be meet/exceed the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact More in Future. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 10
