RESPONSIBILITY AT MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT 2019 MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT GENERAL This document is the Communication on Progress (COP) report for Mipro Group Ltd Oy covering the reporting period of 01.05.2019 – 30.4.2020. STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 30 April 2020 To our stakeholders, We are pleased to confirm that Mipro Group Ltd Oy and its subsidiaries support the United Nations Global Compact, including each of the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions of integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, company culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Stiina-Maria Snäll Chairman of the Board 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system At Mipro Group, we have always been concerned about doing the 3. Interfaces to track equipment, track equipment interfaces and their control things 4. we do for the community. Operating in the field of functional Track equipment and environmental safety, we understand our responsibility and impact on providing The interlocking safe and system is implemented usingfunctional solutions defined architecture for layers with mass each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system transportation andandproviding structure (hardware software) canclean be easilywater. expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. ABOUT THE COMPANY AND COP At Mipro Group, our work has always been engaged in building safe and well-functioning communities. Reliable and responsible operations have always been an integral part of Mipro Group’s activities, vision and values. Throughout the company’s history, it has been of the highest importance for the owners and the management to do things right and keep our promises. The Group has special expertise in functional safety; we supply safety related solutions to rail traffic and water supply ensuring the safety of public transport, environment, water supply and drinking water. Customers and the legislation set strict requirements for our products and services in regard to reliability and functionality. Hence, responsibility is highly important for us in our daily business. Reporting on our social responsibility has become not only a great tool for improving our operations, but also a way to remind ourselves why we are in this business in the first place. We want to actively be part of building and improving communities, and see the value and opportunity in building a successful company through both our local and global involvement in social responsibility. Responsibility reporting and endeavours are important for us; we communicate our values to our stakeholders through them, and encourage other small and mediumsized enterprises to participate. We strive to be in that group of companies that has a pervasive approach to corporate social responsibility, and have made it a natural part of their daily operations. In recent years our customers, personnel and job applicants have had a growing interest in corporate responsibility. Matters of responsibility are increasingly discussed; employees have taken initiatives related to responsibility. FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING BASIC VALUES The Group has evolved in recent years. Our operations and the number of employees have grown considerably. Geographically, we have expanded to Republic of Estonia by opening a branch that allows us to participate in Estonian Railways’ projects. In the midst of all change and growth we are committed to long-term continuity and our goal is to retain and strengthen our basic values, our commitment to the ten UNGC Principles [ https://www. unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles] and our long-term operating policy of doing the right thing. Human Rights Environment • Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges; • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote in human rights abuses. greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development Labour and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced • Principle 10: Businesses should work against and compulsory labour; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; bribery. and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Global Compact is driving business awareness Although as a regional medium -sized company and action in support of achieving the UN’s 2030 our impact in the global context is relatively small, Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 we believe that even the smallest act is of great Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). significance for achieving the SDGs. In our own operations, we have already set our standards at a Since we supply safety related systems to rail traffic high level, in terms of SDGs, however, we recognise and water supply, our solutions have a direct impact the risk of adverse development and the need for on a number of the SDGs. We can have a significant continuous effort going forward. positive effect on these goals locally, as we conduct our business responsibly and strive for new enhanced solutions. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Our goal is to adhere to all aspects of the Declaration Our employees have been informed of the contents of of Human Rights, and through our own example and the Declaration of Human Rights, and have been advised actions influence all our stakeholders and business to look for and report any breaches of its contents partners to set their standards to a similar level. caused either by our own actions or by our stakeholders. The Management System is reviewed periodically to As a company primarily based in Finland, Mipro Group ensure that human rights principles are appropriately adheres to Finnish laws and regulations. On that account, taken into account in our daily operations. our standard on enforcing human rights is already at a high level. However, we do not wish to be complacent about our own and current partners’ actions. Instead we Mipro Group has not been even implicitly have to look for ways to ensure that we will not be part involved in any breaches of human rights of any human rights infringements either due to our own actions or even implicitly. principles during the reporting period. We ensure that our newly founded branch in Estonia shall follow the standard already customary to the Finnish parent. LABOUR PRINCIPLES We are committed to comply with labour legislation The results of the survey implicate that improvements are and we want to be a good and fair employer. needed in effectiveness of our own ways of work as well as in quality and agility of our processes. A competent and committed personnel has been one of the company’s main assets through its history and will be Several corrective steps have been taken – including in the future. We have identified “Doing things together” redefinition of our processes in the quality management as one of the key factors in our strategy and we measure system and introduction of new lean methods and tools. employee satisfaction with annual employee satisfaction surveys. The work is still ongoing but already now positive results can be shown, other indicators such as On this reporting period, the annual employee employee retention and employee satisfaction in other satisfaction survey was carried out in September 2019. questionnaires have already shown clear improvement in In general, we were not satisfied with the overall results latest quarters. from previous surveys and have commenced various steps to increase employee satisfaction. 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system 3. Interfaces to track equipment, track equipment interfaces and their control 4. Track equipment The interlocking system is implemented using defined architecture layers with each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system structure (hardware and software) can be easily expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYEE’S RIGHTS AND LABOUR LAW ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our recruitment process is designed to prevent any (even unintentional) possibility of breaching the Our goal is to adhere to all local laws and regulations in contents of ILO conventions regarding child labour, addition to adhering to the labour principles stated in forced labour or discrimination. the Global Compact. As Finnish and Estonian law comply with the labour principles set by the ILO conventions, We provide training to our managers in matters related we believe that our actions fulfil the labour principles to labour legislation to ensure that we act correctly to satisfactory levels when operating in Finland and and in accordance with the laws. We aim to support the Estonia. However, we realise that we need to pay knowledge of employees about labour legislation by attention to recruitment and rights of employees when providing copies of the labour legislation to employee operating abroad and to our dealings with foreign cafeterias. stakeholders, should the need arise. As a part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures, we discuss the labour IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES principles with our partners and subcontractors. We provide our smaller partners with feedback, information Our employees have been informed of the labour and our experience that may help them to develop their principles and contents of the ILO conventions, and have own practices in relation to labour principles. been advised to report any breaches of these terms should they come across any. All our employees are Mipro Group has not been involved in covered by the collective agreement. All our employees have contracts of employment adhering to Finnish any breaches of labour principles during labour laws. the reporting period. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The outcome of our culture that supports equal opportunities and our support on employees’ personal We recognise the importance of a diverse, skilled development is perhaps best reflected in the composition workforce for our success. We are committed to creating of our management the management group, board a corporate culture that provides all employees with equal of directors and team leaders. Our management opportunities. We are dedicated to provide our employees includes equally women and men, and people of various with possibilities to develop their skills and knowledge in educational backgrounds and age. order to support their work and personal development in different stages of their careers. We support our employees in advancing their career, developing their skills and acquiring education. On IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES this reporting period, we have introduced our personal development discussions (MyPro) and policies. In general, On this reporting period, Mipro has published an the management together with each employee define equality and non-discrimination plan for the years requirements for skills and knowledge and create 2019-2020. The equality of personnel is the principle individual plans for personal development and education. guiding the company’s operations and the basis for the At the beginning of the employment relationship, a gender equality and non-discrimination plan. No one is preliminary training plan is drawn up for the employee discriminated against and everyone is treated equally and it will be complemented during his/her career when in connection with recruitment, application for training, needed. career development, division of labour, and other issues related to work and the workplace regardless of their age, The group companies participate in the Finnish language, ethnic or national origin, nationality, religion or Government’s labour educational program that is designed belief, opinion, disability, health, sexual orientation, family to provide further education to job seekers and create relationships, political or labour union activity, or other jobs in the ICT sector.1 We also cooperate with local reason related to the person. universities, colleges and polytechnics by providing their The company respects persons with different students with internships and practical job placement for characteristics, such as young people, elderly people, thesis work. We employ students directly and also through people with disabilities, people of different origin, their educational institutions. In all cases, we provide the people of different religion or belief, people who live in a students with the same benefits as the other employees registered relationship, or people who are politically active. and implement the same employment principles. We make efforts to continuously develop the company’s practices in a manner that takes the requirement for On this reporting period, Mipro Academy started gender equality and non-discrimination into account. operations. It offers a platform for all Mipro’s employees to build their own knowledge and an information bank to The company applies a zero-tolerance policy to newcomers to ensure the most effective and rich start to harassment and discrimination. The harassment cases their Mipro careers. reported to the employer are taken seriously, and the necessary measures will be taken immediately Mipro Academy participated in a professional retraining to investigate the matter and to stop and prevent program. It aims at offering people a chance to learn the harassment. The company will collaborate with professional skills in an industry offering better chances of the occupational health and safety organisation or employment. For Mipro, this offers a new source of skilled occupational health care, if necessary. design and implementation engineers for railway systems. The program lasted for 6 months. Seasoned professionals In order to ensure pay equality, the company follows the at Mipro throughout their training period accompanied the general salary level in the industry and the salary levels trainees. corresponding with the company’s job descriptions. 1 http://www.digitalentakatemia.fi/ OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The group has healthy, active and relatively young employees and as a result of this and our long-term focus Our goal is to adhere to all local occupational health laws on occupational health issues we have been able to achieve and regulations, and we believe that our actions result in a relatively low number of sick leave days. Our sick leave a satisfactory occupational health environment for our days per employee ratio is below the industry average in operations in Finland and Estonia. Finland. Furthermore, the number of long-term sick leaves has remained low over the years. For the reporting period, The experts we employ are critical for the success of health-related absences have remained at the similar low the group; therefore our goal is to minimise the number level as in the previous reporting periods. of sick leaves. We aim to achieve a low level of absences caused by health-related issues through preventive actions Mipro applies self-regulating instructions to contain and policies as well as with an inclusive employee health the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The measures and insurance policy. guidelines are intended to protect our personnel and prevent the coronavirus from transmitting to the personnel. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES It is highly important that we all act according to these guidelines and the ones provided by the authorities to Finland provides their citizens with wide-ranging public safeguard the health of our personnel, customers and health services that we have complemented with a cooperation partners. We comply with the instructions comprehensive employee health insurance policy that gives given by the Finnish government, the Finnish Institute our employees access to additional private health services. for Health and Welfare (THL) and the Ministry for Foreign The policy includes instant access to basic private health Affairs. services and complementary specialist services such as the services of a physiotherapist and trained professional work We have ensured, in the best possible way, our capability supervisors.1 The professional work supervision can assist to continue our work in spite of the exceptional situation. an employee with professional development or for example Mipro has taken the following preventative measures: help an employee to cope with pressures of the daily work or adapt to changes in working environment. • We have moved on to work remotely, insofar as it is possible. To improve the availability of occupational health services • Meetings are held virtually by using network we arrange visits of occupational health service providers connections. If the attendees of a meeting are only to our office. Mipro people, travelling to the meeting physically is not allowed until further notice, but meetings must be Mipro Group companies have implemented preventive arranged on-line. policies that aim to ensure a good occupational health. The • Events for the personnel that are arranged outside goal of the Early Support Program2 is to identify possible the company are until further notice cancelled and health issues and take any necessary preventive actions transferred to a later date. as early as possible. We also conduct a semi-annual review • Receiving business visitors to the offices must be of occupational health status with our private health care considered carefully and company/student visits are provider which is reviewed by the management team of not arranged at all. each subsidiary. We realise the importance of employees’ • Meetings with external parties shall be arranged by own actions and thus we encourage our employees to using on-line connections. actively take care of their own health and well-being • No one must travel abroad now. (TYKY). As in previous years, the group has organised • All kind of travelling must be cut down to a minimum. various events for the personnel to promote their health • Only necessary business trips can be made. and well-being (TYKY). 1 koulutettu työnohjaaja www.suomentyonohjaajat.fi 2 varhaisen tuen malli; http://www.ttk.fi/tyoterveyshuolto/tyokyvyn_hallinta • We also recommend to avoid leisure time • Additional protective overalls, shoe covers, gloves travelling and to transfer journeys to a later date. and respiratory protective devices have been • During the epidemic, persons who returned acquired to site workers for protection against from abroad were prohibited from entering the the coronavirus. workplaces. Authorities quarantined returnees for 14 days. Mipro excepts that persons follow the instructions • External trainings can be attended only by using provided by the Finnish Institute for Health and remote connections. If possible, the training shall Welfare (THL) and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. be transfer to a later date. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Occupational safety committee members include both employee and management level representatives. Managing occupational safety is a part of our The committee works in a yearly cycle which includes management system, including controls required creating objectives, planning, implementation and by Finnish law, and the ones we have put in place measurement. voluntarily. Our goal is simply to ensure the safety, health, well-being and physical ability of all our Occupational safety is measured by the number of employees working in and outside the office. incident-related absence days, ”close call” incidents, safety-related deviations, audits of safety equipment The field we work in requires a multitude of trainings, usage, reviewing risk management documentation approvals and certificates regarding safety. Keeping and a facility safety scorecard. The first meeting of all these up to date on the employee level constitutes the cycle is dedicated to a review of all the results of an integral part of occupational safety. Some of the measurement. required training is rather specific and not directly available; in such cases our goal is to acquire enough On this reporting period, there were expertise in the company itself to be able to train our • Three incidents, one of which resulted in sick leave. own employees with regard to occupational safety. All incidents were reported on, actions carried out, and followed up on. • Two occupational safety-related deviations IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES • No reported cases of neglecting the use of safety equipment. Occupational safety is managed by the occupational safety committee which is responsible for and To avoid dangerous situations on the railways when empowered by the management to handle all working in live traffic, we apply the superset of national observations, notices, incidents and improvement work safety precautions to multi-national teams, which suggestions regarding safety, well-being and work allows the workers to rely on safety principles they are environment. used to. 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system The interlocking system is implemented using defined architecture layers with each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system structure (hardware and software) can be easily expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We apply the following environmental principles to develop our operations and products: Mipro Group is committed to take the environment into consideration in all company activities. 1. Our operation policy, products and services meet the requirements of legislation and regulations, and Since May 2014 Mipro Oy has operated the Environmental customers. Management System (EMS) certified according to 2. We develop our operations and products so as to ISO 14001:2015. The system is based on continual reduce detrimental environmental impacts. reviewing, self-assessment, planning and improvement. 3. We develop products that have a long lifecycle and It requires us to adopt an active role and a pre-emptive are maintainable and extendable. stance in overcoming challenges and our impact on 4. We extend the lifecycle of the systems we have the environment. Furthermore, it encourages us to delivered by means of our own proactive measures. implement new technologies and practices which are Our organisational structure and operations policy environmentally friendly and sustainable. support lifecycle management tasks. 5. We track energy consumption and reduce the amount The certificate is granted by DNV GL that audits the of waste generated by making correct daily choices. Environmental Management System on an annual basis. 6. We reduce the number of business trips by planning them carefully and by using remote meeting applications and remote connections. Mipro Group operates in the field of environmental technology, and consequently is committed to take the environment into consideration in all company activities. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Mipro Oy’s implementation of EMS is described in the More detailed discussion of outcomes and relevant documents that are part of the company-wide implementation of our six environmental management system. All the roles and responsibilities principles are presented on the following are assigned, and Mipro Oy’s EMS is subject to both pages. internal and external reviews and audits. In general, there were no incidents with an environmental impact during the reporting period. There were no incidents of non-compliance with environmental regulations and legislation. As such, no corrective actions were required on this reporting period. Further, the EMS was subject to an independent external audit in January 2020 where non-conformities were not identified. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT AND REGULATIONS (Principle 1) (Principles 3, 4) In order to be well informed and prepared for possible Mipro Group companies provide solutions with long legislative and regulatory changes, we have a lifecycles. The aim is to provide our clients with the systematic approach to the identification and review best possible long-term yield on their investments of relevant environmental regulation and legislation. in our solutions. Furthermore, we provide lifecycle There were no incidents of non-compliance with management services to sustain the value of the environmental regulations and legislation; thus, no investment and as long a lifecycle as possible. corrective actions were needed. Our goal is to take environmental aspects into account in all the various phases of our solutions’ lifecycle. Our subcontractors and cooperation partners are mainly DEVELOPMENT (Principle 2) Finnish and operate according to the relatively strict Finnish environmental laws and instructions. We are We strive to make efficient solutions for safe interested whether our suppliers have an environmental transportation and water management, and certificate and we perform supplier audits and follow up continuously develop new and improved solutions for the results of audits carefully. our clients. We monitor and manage the environmental load caused Our investment in the situational awareness system by our own actions by means of the environmental development will allow the public stakeholders to system; for example, we have specified our own daily better contain unplanned disruptions in the wastewater operations for site instructions. treatment. We dispose discarded equipment, including our own equipment and customers’ equipment returning to us – for example in connection with service and upgrade – in a responsible manner, paying attention to information security and environmental aspects. We deliver electronic waste to an ISO 14001 certified company for disposal. We draw up and supply recycling instructions for imported equipment. ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND REDUCE BUSINESS TRIPS WASTE (Principle 5) (Principle 6) In our own operations, office waste, emissions We strive to use video conferences and VoIP from transportation and energy consumption have sessions for internal and external communication been identified as our most significant sources of whenever possible. We have invested in video environmental impact. conference equipment and connections and made relevant arrangements inside the company and To reduce the environmental impact, we monitor between different offices and with important the company’s energy use and emissions. We have customers. Our goal is to improve communication completed our site instructions with environmental and reduce business trips at the same time. aspects, for example by including a number of diverse environmental measurements, such as On average, employees use VOIP and instant carbon dioxide emissions, on the site. We have messaging tools two to three times per day and also brought up environmental aspects in supplier on average they participate in or host two remote audits. meetings each week. In spring 2020 VOIP and instant messaging tools have been particularly important to take effective steps to restrain COVID-19 spread. Having the tools and systems in place and in common everyday use has enabled relatively smooth transition to remote work and helped us take effective steps to protect our employees from COVID-19 spread. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Reliability and responsibility have always been Partners and subcontractors must provide an integral part of Mipro Group’s vision and are information regarding proper insurance coverage, consequently reflected in our day-to-day operations fulfilment of their statutory tax obligations and and activities. Legal compliance, business ethics, statutory filings for example. trustworthiness and responsibility are important values for us. As part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures we check that such We require all our partners and subcontractors to information is up-to date and available from all our fulfil their statutory obligations. subcontractors and partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES As a company primarily based in Finland, corruption In our guidance and internal material, we outline what and bribery have traditionally been exempt from corruption (in all its forms) constitutes, and we inform the business environment. However, we realise that our employees periodically against partaking in any corruption appears in many forms outside the exact form of corruption or bribery. They are also instructed letter of the law and these can be hard to identify. to report on any evidence of corruption they come in contact with. To emphasise the importance of During interactions with officials and customers upright dealings, the group has given instructions and there may be many borderline, seemingly legal and principles, and provided personnel with instructions silently accepted practices that are not in line with the concerning corporate gifts. In addition, our financial principle of upholding a transparent and fair business duties are separated, preventing individual employees environment. Our goal is to refrain from any such from accessing company funds for unauthorised activities and encourage our stakeholders to do so as actions. well through our example. We have not identified any cases of corruption or We ensure that our newly founded branch in Estonia bribery within our sphere of influence during the shall follow the standard already customary to the reporting period. Finnish parent. We have not identified any cases of corruption or bribery within our sphere of influence during the reporting period. SAFETY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Safety and quality of our products and services are of How the Mipro Group companies implement ISO and EN outmost importance for us. We deliver systems that standards is described in relevant internal documents guard the safety, efficiency, and availability of water which are part of the company-wide management supply and mass transport; hence, our actions have system. All employees are required to familiarise a direct impact on the safety and well-being of the themselves with the management system documents people and environment in the communities we serve. that are relevant to their work and position and to Our greatest responsibility rests on fulfilment of this follow the procedures of the management system. Each safety commitment and promise that we have made to employee has the responsibility and right to intervene, our customers and to the communities and people who if the guidance of the management system and the are using this infrastructure in their daily lives. common procedures are not followed. Our goal is to deliver the most reliable safety systems Compliance is audited internally and by independent and services. We follow several voluntary and legally auditors and occasionally by our customers. DNV GL required standards to ensure quality of our operations audited our ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management and reliability of the safety systems we deliver. Our System and 14001:2015 Environmental Management operations are regularly audited by external parties to System on January 2020. No major non-conformities ensure the correct application of these standards and to were found in the audit. TÜV Rheinland audited our find areas of improvement. Functional Safety Management System in November 2019. The audit focused on the compliance of the The ISO 9001:20151 and ISO 14001:20152 standards safety management processes described in our Quality cover Mipro’s operations in Finland. Thus, during the Management System and provided feedback concerning reporting period Group’s total revenue is generated the safety management processes. by companies having ISO certified operations. EN standards are applied to all rail traffic products and Common mechanisms of continual improvement – projects; each safety related product and project is such as idea and risk management processes and the assessed by an independent safety assessor. process for assessing and preventing non-conformities – are actively used to identify areas for development and to improve our products, services and quality of operations; employees’ initiatives and active participation in continual improvements are encouraged. Possible deviations and non-conformities are openly and transparently assessed within the company and with our external auditors and customers as needed. 1 ISO 9001:2015; Certification in accordance with the standard in 2019; audited by DNV at 12-month intervals. 2 ISO 14001:2015; certification in accordance with the standard in 2019. Audited by DNA at 12-month intervals. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Our operation and products are based on quality and We recognise that continuous improvements in safety safety standards: and quality management are needed and we believe that this will be critical to our success in years to come. • Quality Management System ISO 9001 • Environmental Management System ISO 14001 To reach our goals and to deliver the most reliable • Functional Safety Management IEC 61508 safety systems, we need to ensure continuous efforts • Railway projects EN 50126, EN 50128, to develop our quality and safety management systems EN 50129 and culture as well as the skills and knowledge of our • Process industry projects IEC 61511 employees. • System components and software DIN V VDE 19250, IEC 61508, EN 954-1 DEVELOPING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY Mipro Group participates in the development of our local communities by cooperating with educational and other institutions. We cooperate with local colleges, universities and polytechnics by offering their students summer and training jobs on a yearly basis. Our long-term goal-directed principle is to offer local young people possibilities to find permanent jobs in their own region as well. DONATIONS AND CHARITY Mipro Group supports local sport activities and especially children’s and young people’s leisure time activities by giving donations. The main principle of donations for leisure time activities is to support sport and culture clubs and societies so that they are able to provide hobbies and interests for as many children and young people as possible, and support their growth and development. For example, they can strengthen social relationships, promote health, create inspiring environments or prevent young people from becoming socially isolated. Each year the company selects a charity for its Christmas donation which this year was the Finnish Association for Nature Conversation (FANC)1 to support their work to protect the environment and promote nature conservation. FANC is the largest non-governmental organization for environmental protection and nature conservation in Finland. It has been a frontrunner in Finland’s environmental affairs since 1938. The purpose of FANC is to protect the Finnish natural environment, promote nature conservation, preserve cultural heritage and spark up active citizenship and strong environmental awareness. 1 https://www.sll.fi/en/ At Mipro Group, we have always been concerned about doing the things we do for the community. Operating in the field of functional and environmental safety, we understand our responsibility and impact on providing safe and functional solutions for mass transportation and providing clean water. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT 2019 MIPRO GROUP LTD OY Kunnanmäki 9 FI-50600 Mikkeli, Finland Telephone: +358 15 200 11 www.miprogroup.fi All brand names and product names mentioned herein are trademarks of their respective owners. All specifications are subject to change without prior notice. ©Mipro Group Ltd. Oy 04/2020
