Sustainability Report 2019 5 Company Portrait 10 Strategy & Management 23 Business & Compliance 29 Product & Innovation 39 Production & Supply Chain 55 Employees & Employment 68 Society & Corporate Responsibility 74 Targets 79 Appendix Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility in 2003, and we have updated and refined this target continuously over the years. Our Sustainability Commitments 2030, aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations, form the framework for our sustainability strategy for the next ten years, and we are also planning beyond that with our goal of a CO2-neutral concrete by 2050 at the latest. Successful commitment to tackling climate change Our sustainability strategy focuses on climate protection. Our goal is clear: by 2030, we intend to reduce our specific net CO2 emissions per tonne of cement by 30% compared with 1990. And we are making good progress – in 2019, we had already Dr. Dominik von Achten, Chairman of the Managing Board achieved a reduction of around 22%. We are pleased that this achievement has been recognised and acknowledged by independent institutes. In 2019, our reduction Introduction target was recognised as science-based by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). This meant that HeidelbergCement was the first cement company worldwide to have SBTi-verified CO2 reduction targets. The sustainability rating agency CDP also awarded HeidelbergCement a place on its Climate Change A List in 2019, as a globally leading company in terms of its commitment to tackling climate change. Thinking about climate protection in the long term: Ladies and Gentlemen, new technologies for CO2 reduction While we have been facing numerous new challenges in connection with the COVID-19 At our plants and research centers, we are working intensively to further reduce our pandemic in recent weeks, one thing is certain: sustainability and the commitment CO2 emissions. We are investing in improving the energy efficiency of our producto tackling climate change will remain central tasks both for HeidelbergCement and tion facilities, using alternative raw materials and fuels, and replacing CO2-intensive for the economy as a whole. clinker in our cement with raw and waste materials that have a significantly lower carbon footprint. We are well positioned for this, as sustainable business in harmony with the environment and the careful use of natural resources have been priorities at HeidelbergCement for a long time. We already set our first specific CO2 emission reduction target 2 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility However, a considerable proportion of our emissions come from the process of cement To develop new technologies that manufacturing and this has so far been unavoidable. Besides the measures already enable CO2 savings on a large scale, mentioned, we must therefore develop new technologies that enable CO2 savings on a large scale. In 2019, we thus invested in numerous projects, such as research into we invested in numerous projects technologies for CO2 capture, storage, and utilisation (CCU/CCS) in Brevik, Norway, in 2019. and Alberta, Canada. In Europe, we have invested more than €1 billion in energy efficiency and emission reduction measures over the past ten years. By 2030, we aim to use 80% of our annual research budget for developing products that are even more sustainable. We act in a responsible manner Well positioned globally for sustainable success We are a partner of the United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) and have declared Our sustainability goals apply across the Group in more than 50 countries. Naturally, our express commitment to its ten principles in the areas of environmental protection, the achievement of these goals is also taken into account in the remuneration awarded corruption prevention, labour standards, and human rights, and will take these into to our international management. In the coming years, we want to continue being account and promote them within our corporate strategy as well as in all our business a good neighbour to those living in the vicinity of our more than 3,000 locations activities. We continued the human rights risk analysis that we launched in 2017, and worldwide, and further decrease the ecological footprint of our business activity with by the end of 2019, we had carried out a human rights risk evaluation for more than ambitious research and development. two-thirds of our country organisations. In particular, this evaluation examined the risk of violating the rights of indigenous peoples. We want to shape the future of our company together with you – in dialogue with our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and business partners as well as HeidelbergCement pursues a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to occupational with the local communities near our operational sites and society as a whole. I look health and safety and compliance. More than 55,000 employees worldwide work forward to your support on this journey. towards the success of HeidelbergCement with competent and passionate dedication and strong loyalty to the company. Their health is our most important asset – in 2019, Yours sincerely, we therefore dedicated 48% of our corporate training to the topic of occupational safety. Dr. Dominik von Achten Chairman of the Managing Board 3 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Contents How to find your way through the report 5 Company 10 Strategy & 23 Business & Portrait Management Compliance 6 Organisational structure 11 Figures, data, facts 24 Figures, data, facts To make it easier for you to navigate through the 7 Key business figures at 13 Vision & mission 25 Legal compliance report, we have added links to this PDF file. In the grey a glance 13 Sustainability Commitments 2030 25 Business performance bar at the top edge of the page, you can jump to the 8 Value chain 14 Our Vision 2050 26 Compliance management 9 Vertical integration 14 Responsibility & organisation 28 Risk and opportunity individual chapters from any page. The thin green 16 Challenges & strategy management bar shows you which chapter you are currently in. 18 Stakeholder engagement The icons operate similarly to those on a website: 21 Materiality analysis Go forward/back Table of contents Starting page 29 Product & 39 Production & 55 Employees & Innovation Supply Chain Employment You can also directly access the chapters from the table of contents. In each chapter, the column at the 30 Figures, data, facts 40 Figures, data, facts 56 Figures, data, facts far left contains a linked overview of the sub-chapters. 31 Focus on customers 41 Environmental management 57 Principles 32 Research & technology 42 Energy & climate protection 58 Employment & The following symbol in the text is also useful: 47 Alternative fuels co-determination 48 Land use & biodiversity 58 Remuneration policy & Link to the specified page or website 51 Local environmental impact working time regulation 53 Management of supplier 59 Occupational health & safety relations 63 Human resources development 65 Diversity management 68 Society & 74 Targets 79 Appendix Corporate Responsibility 69 Figures, data, facts 75 Strategy & Management 80 Key figures 70 Social responsibility 75 Business & Compliance 89 About this report 72 Social engagement at our 76 Product & Innovation 90 GRI content index locations 76 Production & Supply Chain 96 Imprint 77 Employees & Employment Cover image: Lengfurt cement plant, Germany 78 Society & Corporate Responsibility 4 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Company Portrait 6 Organisational structure 7 Key business figures at a glance 8 Value chain 9 Vertical integration Image: Kiln at Geseke cement plant, Germany 5 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Organisational structure HeidelbergCement is divided into five geographical Group areas: Western and Southern Europe, Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia, North America, Asia-Pacific, and Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin (see organisation chart for breakdown of countries). Our global trading activities, especially the trading of cement, clinker, and solid fuels, are pooled together in the sixth Group area, Group Services. Within the geographical Group areas, we have divided our activities into four business lines: cement, aggregates, ready-mixed concrete-asphalt, and service-joint ventures-other. Western and Northern and Eastern North America Asia-Pacific Africa-Eastern Group Services Southern Europe Europe-Central Asia Mediterranean Basin Belgium, France, Albania, BosniaCanada, USA Bangladesh, Brunei, Benin, Burkina Faso, Germany, Italy, Herzegovina, China, India, DR Congo, Egypt, Netherlands, Spain, Bulgaria, Croatia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Gambia, Ghana, United Kingdom Czechia, Denmark, Singapore, Thailand Liberia, Morocco, Estonia, Georgia, Mozambique, Greece, Hungary, Australia Sierra Leone, Iceland, Kazakhstan, South Africa, Latvia, Lithuania, Tanzania, Togo Norway, Poland, Romania, Russia, Israel, Palestine, Sweden, Slovakia Turkey Cement, aggregates, ready-mixed concrete-asphalt, service-joint ventures-other 6 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Key business figures at a glance +4.3% +8.8% -4.6% Total Group revenue Result from current Group share of profit Increase from 2018 to 2019 operations (RCO) Decrease from 2018 to 2019 Figures in E millions Figures in E millions Increase from 2018 to 2019 Figures in E millions 18,851 18,075 17,266 2,188 2,186 1,143 2,010 1,091 918 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Besides consolidation and exchange rate effects, Price increases, exchange rate effects, and the The decrease of 4.6% in the Group share of profit the increase of 4.3% in Group revenue was also due initial application of the new accounting standwas primarily due to non-recurring expenditure to price increases, which more than compensated ard IFRS 16 all contributed to the rise of 8.8% in from the sale of the Ukraine activities. for the slight fall in sales volumes. the result from current operations (RCO). 7 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Value chain Raw materials Production Customers – Extraction – Cement – Public-sector projects – Aggregates – Commercial projects – Concrete – Private customers – Asphalt The raw materials needed for producing our buildOur business is based on the production of cement We supply our products for public-sector and coming materials – limestone for cement production as and aggregates, the two essential raw materials mercial projects as well as to private customers. well as sand, gravel, and hard rock – are generally for manufacturing concrete. extracted from our own quarrying sites. Research and development – CO2 reduction The aim of our research activities is to provide cus– Development of alternative clinkers tomers with innovative products and to minimise – Product innovation energy consumption and CO2 emissions by improv– Recycling ing processes and creating new formulations. Procurement – Raw materials In 2019, HeidelbergCement procured goods and – Energy services with a total value of around €12.7 bil– Logistics lion, with 39% being spent on energy and raw – Maintenance materials. 8 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Vertical integration HeidelbergCement is one of the world’s largest companies for building materials. The core activities of HeidelbergCement encompass the production and distribution of cement, aggregates, concrete, and asphalt. This vertical integration strategy is one of our growth drivers. In future, we plan to further integrate our business activities in urban centers in particular. Raw materials Processing into We process some of the cement Aggregates and aggregates into our own Cement core products concrete and asphalt. Asphalt Ready-mixed concrete Public-sector clients Commercial clients Private customers Customers/ markets Cement 50% Cement 20% Cement 30% Aggregates 50%–60% Aggregates 20%–25% Aggregates 20%–25% 9 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & Management 11 Figures, data, facts 13 Vision & mission 13 Sustainability Commitments 2030 14 Our Vision 2050 14 Responsibility & organisation 16 Challenges & strategy 18 Stakeholder engagement 21 Materiality analysis Image: Bridge over the Vltava River in the Prague district of Troja 10 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Responsibility & organisation p. 14 Six interdisciplinary working groups are at the heart of HeidelbergCement’s sustainability organisation. One member of the Managing Board is responsible for coordinating all sustainability activities, and the Supervisory Board also addresses different topics connected with sustainability on a regular basis. Top marks for Energy efficiency and climate protection p. 17 climate protection The international non-profit organisation CDP awarded HeidelbergCement a place 30% is our targeted reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 compared on its Climate Change A List 2019, as a with 1990. In 2019, our reduction targets were officially confirmed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), making Heidelbergglobally leading company in terms of its Cement the first company in the cement sector to have its commitment to tackling climate change. reduction targets recognised as science-based. Around 8,000 companies had supplied data to CDP, with only 179 receiving an “A”, Dialogue with political decision makers p. 20 the highest rating. Dialogue with political decision makers: in early 2019, we created two Public Affairs Manager positions, based in Berlin and Brussels. In this way, we are supplementing HeidelbergCement’s indirect representation through associations with the company’s direct contacts. 11 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility The focal points of our sustainability strategy until 2030 Ensuring compliance and creating Reducing our environmental transparency footprint Our Goals Our Goals We ensure compliance with international human rights, anti-corruption and labour standards through internal control and risk management Emissions systems, such as internal audits and a whistle-blower hotline. We will reduce our carbon footprint by 30% compared with 1990. We ensure that our suppliers comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We ensure that each position is staffed with the most qualified We will increase the alternative fuels rate to 30%. person, independent from gender, origin, beliefs, and/or orientation. We will reduce cement production-related SOx and NOx emissions by 40% and dust by 80% compared with 2008. We will permanently reduce all other air emissions below Driving economic strength and cement industry average. innovation Water We aim to reduce water consumption at all operational sites Our Goals as far as economically and technologically feasible. We use all resources as efficiently as possible and target Enabling the circular economy We aim to implement water management plans at all sites to earn a premium on our cost of capital. located in water scarce areas and aggregate them on a country Our Goal level to form a water reduction master plan. We will spend 80% of our product R&D budget on the We will continuously increase the substitution rate of natural raw development of more sustainable products. At Group level, all efforts will be combined in a global materials by using by-products or recycled materials. We are active in Green Building Councils and similar strategic water consumption reduction plan. organisations in order to drive innovation of sustainable Land use products together with our customers. All our extraction sites are operated based on an after-use plan agreed with local authorities and in accordance with the needs of local communities. We aim to include biodiversity enhancement recommendations Being a good neighbour in any new after-use plan. We want to implement a biodiversity management plan at Achieving excellence in occupaOur Goals extraction sites within or in direct connection to nature We maintain open and transparent communication about our conservation areas. tional health and safety activities and performance. In case of nature-oriented after-use plans, we aim to achieve We help improve the level of education and living conditions in a positive impact on the biodiversity value at our extraction Our Goals neighbouring communities. sites. We will achieve zero fatalities. We offer one hour of voluntary community work per full-time We will achieve zero lost time injuries. employee per year. 12 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility For us, doing business means a lot more than just achieving outstanding financial results. We also want to act in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. This understanding of our company shapes our sustainability strategy, our Sustainability Commitments 2030, and our Vision 2050. Vision & mission We want to continue to grow. In the long term, however, we will only be able to achieve our business goals if we generate added value for society as a whole. Consequently, environmental and social goals are integrated alongside economic targets into our business strategy and the remuneration systems of our management. We conserve natural resources, as they form the basis of our business Local responsibility is central to our sustainability strategy at Heidelbergactivities, and we take our social responsibility at the various comCement. Our Sustainability Commitments 2030 apply Group-wide to more pany locations and towards our employees seriously. We want to than 3,000 locations in over 50 countries. continue providing our employees with good jobs and valuable qualifications in the future. In our production activities, we focus particularly on ensuring the health and safety of our employees. Sustainability Commitments 2030 We want our customers to benefit from the high quality of our products and a close partnership. We maintain respectful relations The HeidelbergCement Sustainability Commitments 2030 describe with our suppliers and expect them to comply with our sustainaour most important activities for the coming decade in terms of probility standards. moting sustainability. This programme, which is valid throughout the Group, defines the principles, main components, and objectOur business activities are characterised by commercial prudence, ives of our sustainability strategy until the year 2030. the rule of law, and integrity. We promote value creation at our locations and help to increase prosperity and the quality of life in The focus is on climate protection: by 2030, we want to reduce our emerging economies in particular. Growth and good returns are specific net CO2 emissions by 30% compared to 1990 levels. This taralso the basis for our investments in cutting-edge technologies to get has been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) help protect the climate and the environment. and is in line with the Paris Agreement. We have already achieved a reduction of 22% by 2019. 13 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility The principles outlined in the Sustainability Commitments 2030 are Occupational health and safety is one of the cornerstones of our as follows: company, and it is an area for which all management levels at – Driving economic strength and innovation HeidelbergCement are accountable. Our occupational safety organ– Achieving excellence in occupational health and safety isation falls within the remit of the Chairman of the Managing – Reducing our ecological footprint Board, to whom the Director Group Human Resources, who is – Promoting the circular economy responsible for Group Health & Safety, reports directly. H&S advisors – Being a good neighbour support the Managing Board members responsible for the different – Ensuring compliance and creating transparency Group areas in addition to the country managers, who coordinate the measures on a national basis, and the line managers at regional Through our Sustainability Commitments 2030, we are supporting and local management level. Individual occupational health and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In doing so, we aim to help safety measures are defined either by Group Health & Safety or the address social, economic, and environmental challenges at a global local units, depending on their nature and impact. Occupational level. safety measures are part of the personal goal agreement for the www.heidelbergcement.com/en/sustainability-commitments-2030 Managing Board and the top operations managers in the various countries. Last but not least, each individual employee, contractor, and visitor is responsible for following the occupational safety Our Vision 2050 regulations. We are striving to significantly reduce the ecological footprint of The compliance organisation is under the authority of the Chairman cement production: our vision is to offer CO2-neutral concrete by of the Managing Board, to whom the Director Group Compliance 2050 at the latest. We plan to achieve this by increasing the proporreports directly. Each country has its own compliance officer with tion of alternative CO2-neutral raw materials and fuels, developing a direct reporting line to the country manager. However, responinnovative cement types with a lower CO2 footprint, and – in the sibility for ensuring that employees’ conduct is compliant with the long term – by capturing and utilising CO2 emissions. law and regulations lies with all managers and, of course, the employees themselves. Responsibility & organisation Sustainability and environmental protection Environmental sustainability is an integral element of HeidelbergEffective management systems operated by our various business Cement’s business strategy, which is defined by the Managing lines help to ensure a continual process of improvement in accorBoard in consultation with the Supervisory Board. One member of dance with our sustainability strategy. Within the framework of the Managing Board is responsible for promoting and coordinating these systems, we have defined areas of responsibility and created all sustainability activities. The Director of Global Environmental structures that support the effective implementation and monitorSustainability (GES) reports to this member of the Managing ing of the measures we employ to achieve our sustainability targets. Board and thus agrees all substantial measures directly with the These targets focus on occupational health and safety, compliance, Managing Board. and environmental sustainability. 14 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Our Vision 2050 We want concrete to become the most sustainable building material. 2020 – 2030 2030 – 2050 Reduction of CO2 content in clinker – Further improve energy efficiency Our Vision – Increase use of alternative fuels, raw materials, and new binder concepts 2050: Reduction of CO2 content in cement and concrete carbon-neutral concrete – Use clinker with lower CO2 content and secondary cementitious materials – Optimise concrete mixes through new cement types Research projects for CO2 capture and usage Rollout of new technologies – Process-integrated CO2 capture – Recarbonation of recycled concrete in industrial scale – Use of CO2 in circular economy (e.g. chemical products) An adequate political framework is the prerequisite for successful decarbonisation. 15 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Sustainability management at HeidelbergCement In addition, the GES department is responsible at Group level for preparing key decisions regarding the sustainability strategy and for implementing numerous measures in the area of environmental Managing Board sustainability on the production side. These include defining guidelines and goals, identifying and disseminating tried-and-tested Information/reporting measures for achieving these goals, internal and external benchmarking, and representing the company in international organisaInterdisciplinary working groups tions. – CO2 Management The Supervisory Board also addresses different topics connected – Sustainable Land Use with sustainability and environmental protection on a regular basis. – Sustainable Construction Environmental management p. 41 – Social Responsibility – Sustainability Strategy & Risk Management – Sustainability Ratings & Reputation Challenges & strategy While we minimise the risks for our business and seize new opportunities, we simultaneously develop solutions for environmental and social challenges. This work focuses on the following topic areas: Until 2019, the member of the Managing Board responsible for the topic of sustainability also led the Group Environmental – Occupational safety: HeidelbergCement is a manufacturing comSustainability Committee, whose task was to accelerate the progress pany. Occupational health and safety is therefore our highest of operating activities with regard to sustainability and position priority. We use targeted measures to improve our technical and HeidelbergCement as a sustainable company. The Group Environorganisational safety standards and to raise awareness of safe mental Sustainability Committee was superseded by a new, more working practices. This is aimed not only at our own employees flexible working group model in 2019: six permanent interdisciplinbut also at the employees of external companies and third parary working groups comprising experts from different departments ties. are now responsible for the topics of CO2 Management, Sustainable Land Use, Sustainable Construction, Social Responsibility, Sustainability Strategy and Risk Management, and Sustainability Ratings and Reputation. Each of these topics has now been allocated a number of subgroups, which are then coordinated by steering committees, as in the case of CO2 management, for example. 16 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility – Securing the supply of raw materials and conserving resources: CO2 reduction Our business operations are dependent on having long-term -30% access to mineral-based raw materials in the vicinity of our plants. Such resources are finite, and their local exploitation often leads to conflicts of interest. We therefore view securing sustainable supplies of raw materials and conserving resources as key strategic tasks. Our strategy of conserving resources in cement production includes the use of alternative raw mais our targeted reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 – and we terials and fuels. In line with the European Commission’s circular already achieved 22% by 2019. economy targets, HeidelbergCement is involved in research projects investigating the reuse of recycled building materials, for instance in fresh concrete. Energy and climate protection p. 42 Building materials recycling p. 37, 44 limit the rise in worldwide temperature to below 2°C. Our goal is to reduce our specific CO2 emissions by 30% by 2030, compared – Nature conservation and species protection: The quarrying of with the 1990 level, and to realise our vision of CO2-neutral conraw materials requires us to temporarily encroach upon the crete by 2050 at the latest. We plan to achieve this by increasing water supply, soil, and flora and fauna. At the same time, our the proportion of alternative CO2-neutral raw materials and extensive land use creates refuges for endangered animal and fuels, developing innovative cement types with a lower CO2 footplant species. We operate our quarrying sites in accordance with print, and – in the long term – by capturing and utilising CO2 international, national, and local environmental legislation. By emissions. Our goal and the associated measures are consistent 2030, we aim to operate all our extraction sites on the basis of with the road map defined by the International Energy Agency an after-use plan agreed together with local authorities accord(IEA) to help the industry implement the Paris Agreement. These ing to the needs of the local community. We strive to integrate steps were recognised by the Science Based Targets initiative recommendations for the promotion of biodiversity into every (SBTi) in spring 2019, making HeidelbergCement the first cement new after-use plan. company and one of currently around 370 businesses worldwide Land use & biodiversity p. 48 whose targets have been approved by the SBTi. Energy and climate protection p. 42 – Energy efficiency and climate protection: The production of cement requires a lot of energy. From both an economic and an environmental standpoint, it is therefore imperative that we further increase our energy efficiency. Cement production by its nature also leads to a high level of CO2 emissions. We have made a commitment to accept our share of the global responsibility to 17 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI Stakeholder engagement 102-40, 102-42, In view of the strong local focus of our business operations, we can 102-43 only be successful in the long term if we maintain good cooperative relationships with the various stakeholders in society. We seek to establish and maintain a dialogue based on trust with all such relevant groups – at a local, national, and international level. The resulting exchange of ideas and opinions helps us identify critical issues at an early stage and gain greater acceptance for our activities. Each country organisation is responsible for establishing and maintaining its own relationships with national and local stakeholders. The stakeholder dialogue at international level is managed by the Group departments for communication and sustainability. Relations with local stakeholders A site for art and part of the local community for a hundred years: Most of our plants and quarries are situated near cities and comthe concrete plant of our subsidiary Ocean Concrete on Granville Island munities. It is therefore a matter of course for us to maintain reguin Vancouver, Canada. lar contact with the respective community, government agencies, and local organisations, and to inform them about our activities and planned projects at the plant. Plant or facility management promptly to complaints and provide transparent information wherteams are generally responsible for such stakeholder relationships. ever possible and practical in order to address uncertainties and Along with personal discussions, we use a variety of other means misgivings. of communication to keep local stakeholder groups informed and Social responsibility p. 70 enter into dialogue with them – ranging from traditional newsletters and guidelines to social media and a variety of public participation Stakeholder dialogue at a national and international level concepts. HeidelbergCement is a member of various associations that represent their members’ interests vis-à-vis governments, businesses, and We aim to reconcile the interests of the company with those of the public. These memberships promote an exchange with other the local community. The concerns of our local stakeholders vary companies and organisations and a common determination to from location to location. In general, they range from simple visit achieve greater sustainability. The topics addressed focus on chalenquiries and appeals for us to support projects and sports, cultural, lenges specific to individual countries and industrial policy, particand educational institutions all the way through to information ularly with regard to the secure supply of raw materials, environrequests. Stakeholders also raise reservations regarding imminent mental protection, energy conservation, occupational health and modernisation and expansion measures as well as complaints about safety, and social and labour issues. noise and dust pollution from our plants and quarries. We respond 18 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility HeidelbergCement and its subsidiaries also work with national Green Building Councils in different countries. The goal here is to jointly develop certification systems for sustainable construction and to make the design, construction, and operation of buildings more sustainable. Since 2019, we have also been actively involved in the global umbrella organisation, the World Green Building Council. In June 2020, HeidelbergCement has joined the World Green Building Council’s Europe Regional Network (ERN) as official Regional Partner. https://www.worldgbc.org/ Sustainable construction with concrete p. 37 Being part of the Green Building Councils, we foster sustainable Dialogue with political decision makers construction by using new and recyclable building materials as well as We participate in the European Cement Association (CEMBUREAU), by reducing the buildings’ energy demand. which speaks for European cement manufacturers in discussions and negotiations with the European Union (EU) and other institutions. As a member of the European Aggregates Association (UEPG), GRI As a Group headquartered in Germany, we are a member of we also present our positions on aggregates to political decision 102-40, econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of German Busimakers. Our interests concerning concrete are represented by the 102-42, ness. This network of global German companies views itself as a European Ready-Mixed Concrete Organisation (ERMCO) and the 102-43 partner and an expert forum for dialogue with governments, the European Concrete Platform (ECP). scientific community, media, and society. The aim of econsense is to promote sustainable development in business and to assume social responsibility collectively. As an official partner of the Europe https://econsense.de/about-us/ Regional Network of the World Green Building Council, we plan In order to further strengthen innovation and sustainability at a to expand our commitment to global level, HeidelbergCement and eight other international sustainable construction even further building materials companies came together to create the Global in the future. Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) – the first worldwide association for cement and concrete. One of the association’s most Christian Artelt important tasks is to show how the challenges of construction – in Sustainable Construction Manager relation to climate protection, for example – can be tackled in the Global Environmental Sustainability future with the help of concrete. https://gccassociation.org/ 19 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility In early 2019, we created two Public Affairs Manager positions, Selection of our 2019 rating results based in Berlin and Brussels, to further strengthen our dialogue with policymakers. In this way, we are supplementing HeidelbergCDP Cement’s indirect representation through associations with the In 2019, HeidelbergCement achieved the top grade A in the CDP sustainability rating in company’s direct contacts. At numerous events, panel discussions, the area of climate protection and was therepresentations, background discussions, and other formats in 2019, fore ranked on the “Climate Change A-List”. we were also able to demonstrate in person how HeidelbergFor “Water Security”, HeidelbergCement was Cement, as a leading building materials company in Europe, can awarded the grade A-. help to solve societal problems. One of our areas of focus was www.cdp.net climate protection, particularly our vision to offer CO2-neutral concrete by 2050. ISS-oekom In June 2019, HeidelbergCement received a score of C+ in the ISS-oekom Corporate Rating Our lobbying activities represent the positions that Heidelbergand is thus authorised to use the ISS-oekom Cement takes in public. Prime Label. www. issgovernance.com GRI Dialogue with analysts and investors who focus on sustainability 102-43 issues MSCI ESG Sustainability considerations are becoming increasingly important In 2019, HeidelbergCement achieved an AA in investment decisions as our shareholders and a growing numrating in the MSCI ESG Rating for the fourth time in a row. ber of financial analysts and rating agencies want to know how www.msci.com I Disclaimer HeidelbergCement integrates the issue of sustainability into its Group strategy. They also want to know how successful the company has been in this regard. We provide data relating Sustainalytics In Sustainalytics’ ESG Risk-Rating, Heidelbergto these considerations to rating agencies including CDP, MSCI, Cement achieved a 28.4 score in 2019 which Sustainalytics, ISS-oekom, and SAM CSA, and also attend bilateral places it 12th out of 104 in the construction meetings where required. In the past year, the central concerns dismaterials industry. The management of cussed were measures and strategies to promote climate protection, material ESG issues was classified as strong. the occupational safety of our employees and contractual partners, www.sustainalytics.com and respect for human rights. 20 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Dialogue with non-governmental organisations Materiality analysis As a matter of principle, we respond in a transparent manner to all 17 requests from non-governmental organisations and interest groups. We also take critical questions as opportunities to inform people about our sustainability activities and enter into dialogue. We generally welcome the debate on climate change in society as a whole, which was particularly intense in 2019, since this topic has been driving us for a long time, as an energy-intensive quarrying comkey action areas relating to sustainability were identified pany in the building materials industry. as part of our materiality analysis. GRI Materiality analysis 102-44, 102-46 We regularly use a materiality analysis to examine how relevant In order to determine the relevant topics, we compared the sustainindividual sustainability topics are for different stakeholder groups ability topics identified in the past with the lists of topics used by and for the company itself. The analysis thus helps us identify and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as those referred to in evaluate issues and trends that are important for our business other frameworks and industry requirements, and examined their success today or could prove to be important in future. relevance to the business. This resulted in 17 action areas that we Stakeholder engagement p. 18 structured, consolidated, and allocated to the relevant GRI topic areas. The next step was to draw up an analysis from a stakeholder The topics that are relevant for HeidelbergCement were already perspective and determine the social, economic, and environmental determined for the Sustainability Report 2017. In December 2019, impact of our business activity. This process resulted in a materiality they were discussed and validated at an internal workshop in view matrix, which is still valid and has been used, with minimal adjustof current developments. ments, for this report. In 2020, we plan to carry out another materiality analysis. 21 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Materiality matrix GRI 5.0 5.0 102-44, Climate & 102-47 energy Sustainable products Occupational health & safety Economic stability Social Compliance commitment Human Dialogue & rights transparency Relevance for stakeholders Pollutant emissions Water Circular management economy 3.8 3.8 Species protection Attractiveness & sustainable Corporate as an employer land use governance Supply chain management International workforce Transport & logistics 2.5 2.5 low medium high Impact of HeidelbergCement 22 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Business & Compliance 24 Figures, data, facts 25 Legal compliance 25 Business performance 26 Compliance management 28 Risk & opportunity management Image: Employee of our subsidiary Betotech, Germany 23 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Legal compliance p. 25 We have pledged to incorporate the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and corruption prevention as integral elements of our strategy, corporate culture, and day-to-day business. Business performance p. 25 Focus on human Around 80% of the top management positions in HeidelbergCement’s plants rights were filled by local managers in 2019 – in this way, we make use of the expertise and experience of our local employees. In addition, each plant collaborates closely with local suppliers By the end of 2019, more than two-thirds of and service providers. our country organisations had carried out a Compliance reporting system p. 27 human rights risk evaluation. By 2020, we aim to produce a risk assessment for all countries Our compliance reporting system in which we are substantially active. Our offers employees and external parties the opportunity to report suppliers must also subscribe to fundamental suspected violations of laws or guidelines – all such reports are human rights. handled anonymously if desired. 24 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility HeidelbergCement is committed to responsible corporate governAt HeidelbergCement, lawful ance. We aim to achieve our business objectives in accordance and ethical conduct is a core with applicable laws and international standards and by means component of our business of socially and environmentally responsible methods. Only in this way will our success be sustainable. activities. Roland Sterr Director Group Legal and Group Compliance Legal compliance In all the countries in which we operate, we comply with and respect Our management and monitoring structures comply with the comthe applicable laws and regulations. They form the legal basis for pany’s Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure of the Managour business activity. As a globally active company, we are also ing Board and Supervisory Board, the regulations under the German bound by international values and standards. We are therefore Stock Company Act, and the German Corporate Governance Code. committed to adhering to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises recommended by the Organisation for Economic Business performance Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We expect our employees Group revenue for the whole of 2019 rose by 4.3% in comparison and business partners worldwide also to observe these central with the previous year to €18.9 billion. On a like-for-like basis, guidelines and recommendations. Our Leadership Principles thererevenue increased by 2.1%. The result from current operations rose fore include a commitment to these standards. Suppliers are obliged by 8.8% to €2,186 million. On a like-for-like basis, this is an increase to commit to these standards by complying with our Supplier Code of 4.7%. The profit for the financial year amounted to €1,242 milof Business Conduct. lion. In the 2019 financial year, cash inflow from operating activities of continuing operations increased significantly by €695 million to When we joined the United Nations Global Compact in October €2,664 million. 2018, we pledged to incorporate its principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and corruption HeidelbergCement operates in over 50 countries and at more than prevention as integral elements of our strategy, corporate culture, 3,000 locations worldwide. We create jobs at our locations – both and day-to-day business. In this context, we will increase our involvedirectly at our production sites and indirectly in upstream and ment in charitable projects in order to play our part in achieving the downstream business sectors. We promote economic development development goals of the United Nations, particularly the sustainwith our wages, investment, purchasing, and taxes – particularly in ability goals. We report to the public annually on our progress on economically weak regions. At our locations, local employees are the implementation of projects and the achievement of objectives, given management responsibility wherever possible. The proporin accordance with the rules of the Global Compact. tion of local managers in senior management positions in 2019 was 25 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility approximately 80%. Each of our plants collaborates closely with Revenue by geographical Group areas local suppliers and service providers, and we invest around 90% of our procurement volume in the areas immediately surrounding our Africa-Eastern plants or within the respective country. Western and 9.5% Mediterranean Southern Europe 28.7% Basin Our production and quarrying sites are generally designed for a Northern and Eastern Europeservice life of several decades. To maintain operating permits at 16.2% Central Asia our locations over these long periods and to renew our mining concessions at the required intervals, we need the constant support of the public. To achieve this, the key requirement is that we meet North America 26.8% 18.9% Asia-Pacific the conditions for regulatory approval, particularly in the area of environmental protection. Procurement Compliance management 90% of our procurement value is invested in the areas immediately We have implemented a compliance programme across the Group, based on our Code of Business Conduct, to ensure conduct that is compliant both with the law and with regulations. The Code of Business Conduct requires all employees to adhere to our basic principles of responsible corporate governance, regardless of whether surrounding our plants or within the respective country. such principles have been written into law or not. The compliance programme is reviewed on an ongoing basis for any necessary adjustments with respect to current legal and social developments, and it is improved and updated accordingly. A central element of this programme is the self-commitment made by the Group management not to tolerate violations of applicable laws and to impose sanctions where appropriate. It also includes internal guidelines and measures that express the legal provisions in concrete terms. In addition to regular communication of these guidelines, our management issues compliance letters to raise awareness of compliance with laws and regulations. We also offer information brochures, an internetand telephone-based 26 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility reporting system, and employee training that makes use of modern measures as well as determining additional measures to be impletechnologies and media, such as e-learning modules. The range of mented. The aim is to produce a risk assessment for all countries electronic courses available covers topics such as discrimination and in which we are substantially active and to repeat this analysis regharassment in the workplace, competition law, and the prevention ularly at an interval of approximately three years. Our suppliers of corruption. must subscribe to fundamental human rights relevant in the business context, such as the prohibition of child and forced labour, Violations of applicable laws and internal guidelines will be consistfair and safe work conditions, freedom of association, and a ban ently sanctioned. In addition, corrective and preventive measures on discrimination. ensure that similar incidents are prevented from occurring in the future. In 2019, we continued to roll out the central supplier management system across the Group. Additional local and global measures to Group-wide implementation of the compliance programme is evaluate suppliers from a sustainability perspective were incorpormonitored by regular and special audits by Group Internal Audit ated into an updated version of the global purchasing policy at the as well as via special half-yearly compliance reporting by the end of 2019. In 2020, we will gradually introduce these measures in Director Group Compliance to the Managing Board and the Audit the various countries. Committee of the Supervisory Board. He monitors the effectiveness Additional information on the measures taken to establish legally of the compliance programme and verifies in particular whether it compliant and responsible conduct within the HeidelbergCement Group adequately satisfies the legal requirements and recognised complican be found in our Annual Report 2019 on pages 55 ff. and 72 ff. ance standards. An additional quarterly report regularly informs the Managing Board members with regional responsibility about Compliance reporting system the most important compliance incidents in their Group areas. Our compliance reporting system, which also includes criteria for infringements of human rights and ILO core labour standards, offers Compliance activities employees and external parties the opportunity to report suspected In 2019, the country organisations of HeidelbergCement once violations of laws or guidelines. The system encompasses a variety again concentrated their efforts on implementing country-specific of channels through which compliance violations can be addressed, measures to tackle corruption and to ensure compliance with comranging from reports sent directly to specifically authorised contact petition law, according to their risk profiles. This has been backed partners to information submitted via our whistle-blower hotline. by appropriate training measures. In the reporting year, around All such reports are handled anonymously if desired. Our Com15,400 employees across the Group were registered for the complipliance Incident Reporting & Case Management Guideline contains ance e-learning programmes. instructions and principles on how to report compliance-related incidents, investigate submitted complaints, and protect those In 2017, we launched a risk analysis for human rights. Among other reporting the incidents. issues, this explicitly examines the risk of violating the rights of indigenous peoples. By the end of 2019, more than two-thirds of our country organisations had carried out a human rights risk evaluation. This involved identifying potential risks and existing 27 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility We examine every report we receive and take appropriate disciplinclosely linked by Group-wide planning and monitoring systems. ary action in cases of proven misconduct. These measures can range Opportunities are recorded in the annual operational plan and folfrom reprimands to dismissal. We also initiate civil action and press lowed up as part of monthly financial reporting. Operational mancriminal charges, if necessary. In addition to taking corrective agement in each country and the central Group departments are action, we implement preventive measures to help stop similar directly responsible for identifying and observing opportunities at incidents arising in the future. an early stage. In 2019, Group Compliance registered 99 confirmed or pending HeidelbergCement has installed transparent regulations to govern compliance cases across the Group, which corresponds to a rise competences and responsibilities for risk management that are of 11% compared with 2018. In our opinion, this rise is primarily based on the Group’s structure. A code of conduct, guidelines, and the result of an increased willingness to report due to improved principles apply across the Group for the implementation of syscompliance awareness. tematic and effective risk management. The standardised internal control and risk management system is based on financial resources, Of the allegations, 46% related to the working environment, 15% operational planning, and the risk management strategy estabwere property offences, and 8% concerned corrupt behaviour and lished by the Managing Board. conflicts of interest. The other 31% of allegations fall under various other categories. These include a small number of reports relating Risks that may have a significant impact on our assets, financial, and to human rights, such as safe working conditions and discriminaearnings position are divided into four categories based on the risk tion. catalogue established in the company: financial risks, strategic risks, operational risks, as well as legal and compliance risks. Risk & opportunity management In 2019, in order to respond to the growing importance of sustainability and non-financial risks, we also worked on a comprehensive HeidelbergCement’s risk policy is based on the business strategy, risk assessment, involving the relevant internal stakeholders from which focuses on safeguarding the Group’s existence and sustainthe Group Communication & IR, Group Insurance & Corporate Risk, ably increasing its enterprise value. Entrepreneurial activity is always and Global Environmental Sustainability departments. In the next forward-looking and therefore subject to certain risks. Identifying step, we will focus particularly on climate-related risks and invesrisks, understanding them, as well as assessing and reducing them tigate how HeidelbergCement can implement future reporting systematically are the responsibility of the Managing Board and a requirements. key task for all managers. Comprehensive information on our risk and opportunity management can be found in our Annual Report 2019 on pages 63–73 HeidelbergCement is subject to various risks that are not fundamentally avoided, but instead accepted, provided they are consistent with the legal and ethical principles of entrepreneurial activity and are well balanced by the opportunities they present. Opportunity management and risk management at HeidelbergCement are 28 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & Innovation 30 Figures, data, facts 31 Focus on customers 32 Research & technology Image: Additive manufacturing with 3D printable concrete supplied by Italcementi 29 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Expenditure and number of employees p. 34 E134 million were spent on research and technology in 2019. This corresponds to 0.7% of Group revenue. 1,083 employees were employed in research and technology in 2019. Alternative raw materials for improving the carbon footprint p. 34 Innovative and Alternative raw sustainable products materials, as a contribution to which are produced as waste in other industries, are one of the most important ways of reducing CO2 emissions in cement climate protection manufacturing. By using these materials, we actively promote the circular economy. Our R&D activities aim to generate added Sustainable construction with concrete p. 37 value for customers and the company through innovative products. We also minimise Commitment to energy usage and our CO2 emissions by means of process improvements and new sustainable construction formulations. HeidelbergCement and its subsidiaries work with national Green Building Councils in different countries. From 2020, we will also be actively involved as an official partner in the Europe Regional Network (ERN) of the World Green Building Council. 30 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Our customers place the highest requirements on our products and To deliver business and customer services. The research and development (R&D) work we carry out at value, we are working in an agile HeidelbergCement for our customers involves developing innovadevelopment framework and are in tive products as well as improved processes and new cement and concrete formulations that help minimise energy consumption constant touch with our end users. and CO2 emissions. As a result, they also reduce the effects on the With our HConnect digital suite and environment as well as costs. products like the OnSite mobile app, we aim to make HeidelbergCement the easiest, most efficient and most Focus on customers personal company to do business Our close proximity to the market enables us to provide our cuswith. tomers with extensive advice and develop our products in close Roman Lentz consultation with them. The responsible departments and employChief Digital Transformation Officer ees are directly incorporated into the organisation of the respective national subsidiaries and develop cements, aggregates, and conallows us to deliver superior value to our customers worldwide. In cretes that are optimally adapted to local needs. This development 2018, full customer journey mapping was introduced to deepen our work is often carried out in close cooperation with our customers. customer insights. In the past five years, over 2,000 optimisations However, our work does not end with the product, but also based on customer feedback have been made to improve the experiincludes providing the customers with expert advice on product ence we offer our customers. We treat all the customer data we usage. Customers who wish to file complaints can get in touch with collect confidentially and in line with GDPR, and we do not pass on their personal contact partners, whereby all complaints – whether any information to third parties. of a technical, logistical, or commercial nature – are forwarded directly to the appropriate department. Applying leading-edge technologies to our core business One of the core values we have embraced at HeidelbergCement’s GRI In order to continually deliver more value to our customers and Digital Transformation Office (DTO) is that building great digital 102-40 offer them the high-quality solutions they expect, we need to tools requires us to understand the people who will be using those look beyond mere product innovation. By truly understanding our tools. This notion compels us to adopt a user-first instead of a techcustomers and their needs, we are able to optimise not just our nology-first mindset. DTO started its journey into user-centred products but also our services. We believe that this creates greater design thinking by going out in the field and talking to customers customer value, which brings major benefits, such as differentiaabout their day-to-day interactions, their needs and expectations, tion, loyalty, advocacy, and sustainable growth. and their pain-points in doing business with HeidelbergCement. This has shaped our understanding and brought us one step closer Since 2015, HeidelbergCement has been using the Net Promoter to building and delivering products that address those specific System (NPS) ® as a customer experience optimisation program. This needs. 31 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility In 2019, we made further progress in the area of digitalisation and Industry 4.0 (CEM 4.0 project). Digital technologies allow us, for instance, to analyse plants and, if necessary, provide support remotely. We further advanced the introduction of Expert System, a software solution for optimising production. – Aggregates: In the aggregates business line, our Continuous Improvement and Performance Management programme (CI Agg) exceeded the savings target of €49 million in 2019. It aims to make improvements along the entire value chain, from the extraction of raw materials through to production processes and sales. Through a similar programme, launched in the asphalt Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC) in Leimen, Germany: one of its main operating line in 2018, we achieved savings of around €10 milresearch topics is the reduction of CO2 emissions. lion in 2019. – Ready-mixed concrete: The Competence Center Readymix (CCR) Research & technology aims to generate savings in the ready-mixed concrete operating line and improve the quality of the products and services. This The aim of research and development (R&D) at HeidelbergCement will be achieved through an improvement programme examinis to develop innovative products as well as process improvements ing all parts of the ready-mixed concrete business starting from and new formulations, in order to minimise the use of energy, CO2 the ground up delivering efficiencies in raw materials, logistics, emissions, and hence costs. production, product range, assets, and concrete pumps. Our research and development activities – Development of cements and concretes with improved carbon The innovation activities of HeidelbergCement focus on five main footprint: We are developing composite cements that contain areas: less clinker. Reducing the proportion of clinker is the most important lever when it comes to minimising energy consumption – Products and applications: The main priority is the development and CO2 emissions, and in conserving natural raw materials. We and improvement of binders and concretes with optimised propare also working on processes to incorporate CO2 in our products erties and innovative functionalities. by means of carbonation, which allows us to use building materials for CO2 storage. – Cement production: Continuous improvement and the sharing of best practices are priorities in the cement business line. This is illustrated by the Continuous Improvement Program (CIP), Maintenance Improvement Program (MIP), and Operational Excellence (OPEX). 32 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Organisation and fields of activity Our global competence centers Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC), Competence Center Materials (CCM), Competence Center Readymix (CCR), and teams from the two centers for R&D and product innovation – Global R&D (GRD) and Global Product Innovation (GPI) – pool the knowledge in our Group and make it available to all operating units. International experts work in all of our competence centers, offering wide-ranging expertise in the areas of cement, concrete, and aggregates. Central R&D and innovation: We have concentrated our Group-wide R&D and innovation activities in the cement, ready-mixed concrete, and aggregates business lines in our two research centers in Leimen, Germany, (GRD) and Bergamo, Italy, (GPI). While the team in Leimen focuses on the reduction of CO2 emissions, CO2 use in building materials, resource efficiency, and a decrease in production costs, In the i.lab, our research center in Bergamo, Italy, the focus is on our activities in Bergamo concentrate on the development of susthe development of innovative concrete solutions and new market tainable concrete solutions for modern urban and infrastructure opportunities. construction and new market opportunities. Individual projects are defined and implemented by the two teams in close coordination Similarly, the CCM supports the aggregates and asphalt business with the operating companies. This close collaboration from the areas Group-wide with programmes for continuous improvement very start of the project facilitates the efficient implementation of and performance management. Its tasks also include the planning the development results and a quick market launch. and implementation of projects as well as digitalisation and automation. In addition, the CCM offers training and further education. Technology and innovation: Technical centers support our national subsidiaries in each Group area. In the cement business line, this is The CCR is a comparable organisation in the ready-mixed concrete the HTC with five area organisations. They assist our cement plants business line. It focuses on the continuous improvement of the with all technical issues – from securing raw material supplies and entire ready-mixed concrete business but primarily on the optimisaoperational optimisations to process control and quality assurance. tion of raw materials and logistics costs. With investment projects, HTC locations are involved in project management until a new installation or plant is commissioned or optimisation measures have been completed. 33 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Customer-related development and technical service: Our close Employees in research and technology proximity to the market facilitates intensive customer-oriented 2017 2018 2019 development and technical service. Integrated directly into the organCentral R&D and innovation 1) 127 109 97 isation of the respective national subsidiaries, the relevant departTechnology and innovation 348 357 342 ments and employees develop and optimise the cements, aggreCustomer-related development and gates, and concretes that are tailored to local needs, often in close technical service 661 690 644 cooperation with customers. Total 1,136 1,156 1,083 1) Since 2017, the Global Environmental Sustainability (GES) department has been Expenditure and number of employees included in these figures. Total expenditure on research and technology amounted to €134.0 million in the reporting year (previous year: 145.7), corresponding Alternative raw materials for improving the carbon footprint to 0.7% of Group revenue. The following table shows a breakdown One of the most important ways of reducing CO2 emissions in of expenses for the last three years, divided into each of the three cement manufacturing is the use of alternative raw materials that fields of activities mentioned above. are produced as waste in other industries. A very large share of these alternative raw materials comes from the metalworking industry. Moreover, coal-fired power plants supply ash as well Expenditure on research and technology as synthetic gypsum. By using these materials, and thus avoiding Em 2017 2018 2019 waste, we actively promote the circular economy. The systematic Central R&D and innovation 1) 2) 21.9 18.3 15.3 assessment of the suitability of all materials used ensures the best Technology and innovation 61.7 64.0 61.6 and most consistent product characteristics. Customer-related development and technical service 57.4 63.4 57.1 HeidelbergCement generally uses alternative raw materials in two Total 141.0 145.7 134.0 phases of the production process: in the combustion process for the 1) Including capitalised expenses. production of clinker, which is the most important intermediate 2) Since 2017, the Global Environmental Sustainability (GES) department has been included in these figures. product in the manufacture of cement, and as additives that allow us to reduce the proportion of CO2-intensive clinker in cement. In the 2019 financial year, a total of 1,083 people (previous year: 1,156) were employed in research and technology. The personnel breakdown and development over the last three years is shown in the following table. The high importance of customer-related development and technical service as well as technology and innovation is reflected not only in the costs but also in the number of employees. 34 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Clinker ratio Cement type portfolio 74.5% was the clinker proportion in cement in 2019. Pozzolana/ fly ash cement Ground granulated blast furnace slag 8.3% 1.7% 18.1% Limestone cement Oilwell/ white cement 0.5% To produce clinker, we make use of used foundry sand, for example, Masonry cement/ or lime sludge from drinking water purification systems in order special binder 1.6% 12.2% Slag cement to reduce the consumption of finite natural resources. When we develop new types of cement with a reduced clinker proportion, MultiOrdinary we also use other major constituents such as blast furnace slag from component Portland cement 37.6% 20.1% cement steel production operations as well as fly ashes, a by-product from coal-fired power plants. Moreover, in Africa, for example, we use ground rock from local quarries as an additional component in cement production, thereby replacing imported clinker with local raw materials. In the Netherlands, Germany, and France, we are investigating whether the fines from concrete recycling can be used Development of alternative clinker as a cement ingredient in order to fully close the loop in concrete With TernoCem®, we have established the basis for an alternative recycling. clinker technology. Based on an altered chemical composition and low burning temperatures, CO2 output is 30% lower in compariAt Group level, the proportion of alternative raw materials in son with conventional clinker and energy consumption is reduced cement production was 11.3% during the reporting period; the by around 15%. The underlying technology is protected by various clinker proportion in cement was 74.5%. patents. 35 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI 102-44 Research into sustainable construction Slim design ensures resource efficiency Ultra-high-performance Ultra-high-performance concrete is one of the most significant developments worldwide in the field of concrete concrete technology and applications. In the course of its research into solutions for sustainable construction, HeidelbergCement has developed a special product, Effix® PLUS. is stronger and more durable than conventional Ultra-high-performance concrete has a denser structure concrete, making it a particularly suitable than conventional concrete. This makes it significantly more resistant to mechanical or damaging stresses. Because material for sustainable construction. the material is so strong and durable, it can be used for structures that are thinner and thus more lightweight. In addition, the building components last longer and require much less maintenance. The long service life and more streamlined construction make ultra-high-performance concrete a particularly resource-saving and sustainable building material. First application in bridge construction In 2018, HeidelbergCement, in cooperation with the Technical University of Munich and the company Max Bögl, constructed the first railway bridge in Germany made of ultra-high-performance concrete. Thanks to the use of a precast element made of Effix® PLUS, the renovation and construction of the innovative bridge was completed within a few days. 36 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Sustainable construction with concrete As a founding member of the Concrete Sustainability Council, we contributed significantly to the development of a new certification system for sustainably produced concrete, which was introduced at the beginning of 2017 and has been continuously developed since then. Additional concrete plants in Poland, Italy, and Turkey were certified in 2019. With the certification of concrete, taking into account social, economic, and environmental aspects along the value chain, we expect to see greater acceptance of the product and the entire industry. We have also strengthened our engagement in various national Green Building Councils, the European Construction Technology Platform, and other associations in order to support and accelerate developments in the area of sustainable construction and market transformation. From 2020, we will also be actively involved as an official partner in the Europe Regional By using recycled domestic waste in high-quality building materials, Network (ERN) of the World Green Building Council. our Australian subsidiary Alex Fraser Group actively contributes to the circular economy. Besides reducing our carbon footprint through the use of alternative raw materials and clinker technologies, our research laboratories are also working on products intended to improve the energy constructed in accordance with the platinum standard of the efficiency of buildings and to support the energy transition. One German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB), and the energy example of a product designed to support the energy transition is demand of the building will be exceptionally low. Powercrete®, a special concrete with outstandingly high thermal conductivity, which allows high-voltage cables to be laid underAn important factor in measuring the sustainability performance ground. of cement and concrete lies in considering the entire life cycle of these building materials, including how they are recycled. In Concrete is generally characterised by good thermal insulation propAustralia, Hanson Australia took over the Alex Fraser Group, one erties and can, where used correctly, contribute towards significant of the largest companies for building material recycling on the west energy savings in a building over the material’s service life. Thanks coast of Australia, back in 2018. Alex Fraser recycles more than to innovative formulations, concrete can also be used to store or 3 million tonnes of demolition concrete and several hundred conduct heat. Our research center in Leimen, which was built in thousand tonnes of asphalt every year. The majority of this recycled 2016, uses concrete-core activation to provide energy-efficient air material is currently still used in road construction. However, there conditioning for offices and laboratories. The new headquarters in are specific plans to increase the use of demolition concrete in the Heidelberg, which has been occupied from mid-2020, have been production of fresh concrete in the future. 37 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility HeidelbergCement is committed to the circular economy, as demonPET assesses the sustainability performance of our cement and strated, for example, by our participation in the Dutch concrete concrete products over their entire life cycles. The tool is based on recycling company Rewinn B.V., Amsterdam, which we established a questionnaire that uses calculations and qualified assessments to together with local partner Theo Pouw BV, Utrecht, Netherlands. compare either a product that has been improved for a specific The company continued to develop positively in the reporting year, application or a new product with the reference product used and we are able to produce up to 250,000 tonnes of aggregates as standard for this application. The period for determining the from recycled concrete annually. These are already used in numerreference product is 2017/2018. The reference product thus serves ous applications, such as the production of fresh concrete. as a benchmark for measuring and assessing the change made by the newer, more innovative product. In this way, the new product In Italy, our subsidiary Calcestruzzi has launched a new series of is recognised as being a more efficient substitute for the reference concrete products named EcoBuild with a minimum proportion product within the same area of application. of 5% recycled material to fulfil the requirements for public tenders. At the customer’s request, the proportion of recycled material During the PET evaluation process, data is collected on the prodcan be increased in accordance with technical specifications and uct’s various life-cycle phases, particularly information relating to standards. EcoBuild concrete, which generally uses locally produced the environment, social aspects, and cost-effectiveness. The assessmaterials, also has an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) ment takes into account production as well as construction and that verifies its low environmental impact and can be used to fulfil usage phases and recycling/end-of-life considerations. the criteria of building rating systems. The sustainability assessments carried out using PET and informaOne of the areas the GPI team in Bergamo is investigating is cementtion about the revenue generated through sustainable products and concrete-based construction technologies. The team has deare collated in the Sustainable Product Database. Above all, this veloped a cement with photocatalytic properties and is working on resource helps us to respond to enquiries by investors, analysts, concrete solutions for energy saving and the thermal insulation of and rating agencies, who use these parameters as key criteria to buildings. Digitalisation, automation, and sustainability in the describe company performance. The sustainability data recorded construction industry will also support the development of new with PET is collected again every three years, while the relevant key building technologies, such as 3D printing with concrete. figures for determining revenue are updated annually. Collecting data about sustainable products In order to meet the ever-increasing demand for transparent data relating to HeidelbergCement’s sustainable product portfolio, we further developed the Product Evaluation Tool (PET) in 2018, which had been newly created in the previous year, and have introduced it in ten Group countries since 1 January 2018. 38 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & Supply Chain 40 Figures, data, facts 41 Environmental management 42 Energy & climate protection 47 Alternative fuels 48 Land use & biodiversity 51 Local environmental impact 53 Management of supplier relations Image: Employees of the Hanson aggregates plant in Bridgeport/Texas, USA 39 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Environmental management p. 41 Around 94% of our integrated cement plants were operating with a certified environmental management system at the end of 2019. By 2030, we intend to increase this share to 100%. Energy & climate protection p. 42 CO2-neutral concrete We manufacture by 2050 at the latest: this is what we intend to offer our customers worldwide. It is HeidelbergCement’s view that concrete has the our products in a potential to become the most sustainable building material. responsible manner Water management p. 51 All of our facilities around the world have strict rules for ensuring sustainable, environmentally compatible production processes. Our suppliers also have to commit themselves to a Code By 2030 we aim to have water management plans in place for all plants in regions affected by water scarcity. Alongside this process, we are of Conduct, and we monitor their compliance developing a global strategic water reduction plan. Thanks to with this code. our work, we achieved an “A-” classification in the water security category of the CDP company ranking for 2019. 40 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility HeidelbergCement’s sustainability strategy focuses on climate protection, environmental responsibility, and ensuring the permanent availability of resources. This has given rise to our objective of operating sustainable production processes at all of our operational sites worldwide. We also expect our suppliers to be aware of our standards: that is why a Code of Conduct forms the basis of all of our partnerships, and our contractors have to commit themselves to upholding this code. Environmental management Environmental protection is an integral element of HeidelbergThe country organisations of HeidelbergCement are responsible for all Cement’s business strategy, which is defined by the Managing areas of our operating activities – this includes the correct recording of all Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board. One member of consumption and emissions data. the Managing Board is responsible for the topic of environmental sustainability and coordinates all activities at Group level. The GES irregularities identified during the check are followed up immedi(Global Environmental Sustainability) department also reports to ately. Where necessary, this also includes supporting the relevant him. The task of this department is to manage and support the production plant in resolving any technical issues. progress of operating activities with regard to environmental sustainability. In the reporting year, there were a few isolated violations of environmental protection laws from continuing operations which As HeidelbergCement has a decentralised structure, the country have led to fines or non-financial penalties. At the time of reportorganisations take responsibility for all areas of our operating activing, there were seven known cases involving amounts of over USD ities, including compliance with all legal provisions and regulatory 10,000. Since individual cases are still pending, this figure should conditions. This also covers the correct recording and transmission be regarded as preliminary. We analyse each case to derive changes of all necessary production, operating, consumption, and emissions and improvements. data that HeidelbergCement is obligated to provide in the various countries by law or by regulations, or because of voluntary comIn an effort to place environmental protection on a firmer footing mitments. Every plant manager is essentially responsible for the at our production locations and achieve continual improvements environmental management system and the environmental perforin this area, we plan to introduce certified environmental managemance of their plant. ment systems at all of our cement plants worldwide by 2030. We will focus here on the ISO 14001 international standard, but also The internal monitoring of all relevant operating data is carried use locally recognised environmental management systems. At the out by our competence centers: HTC for the cement business line, end of 2019, around 94% of our integrated cement plants were CCM for the aggregates business line, and CCR for concrete. Any operating with a certified environmental management system. 41 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Energy & climate protection Climate protection 2017 2018 2019 Due to the high temperatures needed to burn limestone, the proSpecific net CO2 emissions duction of cement consumes a lot of energy and thus causes com(kg CO2 per tonne of cement) 607.6 598.9 589.8 bustion-related CO2 emissions. In the calcination process, the raw Alternative fuel rate 21.0% 22.0% 24.0% material is heated to over 800°C, which leads to further, processClinker ratio 75.4% 74.8% 74.5% related CO2 emissions from the limestone. This is why climate protection is a fundamental part of our environWe are also working intensively to reach our goal of being able to mental policy, as is also reflected in our Sustainability Commitments offer our customers throughout the world a CO2-neutral concrete by 2030, published in October 2017. In this document, Heidelberg2050 at the latest. To achieve this, we are investigating a number of Cement has set itself the objective of reducing its ecological footmeasures, including the option of capturing and utilising CO2 emisprint, among other aspects. As a company, we are committed sions in the product life cycle over the long term. It is Heidelbergto fulfilling o ur s hare o f t he g lobal r esponsibility t o k eep t he Cement’s view that concrete has the potential to become the most rise in worldwide temperature below 2°C, as set out in the Paris sustainable building material. Agreement. In concrete terms, this means that HeidelbergCement’s target is to reduce its specific CO2 emissions per tonne of cement by Participation in the European Union’s emissions trading system 30% compared with the 1990 level by 2030. By 2019, a reduction of HeidelbergCement currently has 50 facilities in 16 countries that approximately 22% was achieved. To attain this target, we will, for participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). As in preinstance, increase the proportion of alternative fuels in the fuel mix vious years, the compliance requirements for the past financial year to 30%. In 2019, this figure reached 24%. At the same time, we plan were met without incident. The debate regarding the reform of to further intensify the use of alternative raw materials and further the EU ETS for Phase IV (2021–2030) continued in 2019. The final reduce the proportion of clinker in our cement – that is to say, the allocation rules for the emissions certificates and, in particular, clinker ratio. This currently stands at below 75%. the product-specific benchmark for the cement industry had not yet been defined at the time of compiling this report. These are Our reduction targets and the measures defined to achieve them expected to be announced in the second half of 2020. are in accordance with the road map set out by the International Energy Agency (IEA) for our industry in order to successfully limit Emissions trading systems outside Europe the global temperature rise to 2°C, as agreed at the COP21 Climate Emissions trading systems are also being set up in regions outside the Change Conference in Paris. We have since had this conformity EU. A national emissions trading system in China – a follow-on to the reviewed and confirmed b y t he S cience B ased T argets i nitiative pilot project run in some provinces – is expected to commence in 2020. (SBTi), which made HeidelbergCement the first company in the Initially, the electricity sector is being integrated into the national ETS cement sector, and one of currently around 370 businesses worldin China, but as at the end of 2019, no decision had yet been made wide, whose reduction targets have been approved by the SBTi. regarding the precise timing of the cement industry’s inclusion in the 42 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility scheme. In North America, the Western Climate Initiative combines the Canadian and Californian emissions trading programmes. In the United States, California has had an emissions trading system since 2013. In Canada, we are currently subject to a CO2 tax and operate as part of an emissions trading system at provincial level. A carbon price floor has also been introduced at national level, which defines a lower price limit for Canada’s individual emissions trading systems over the next few years. Innovations for climate protection HeidelbergCement takes a leading role when it comes to climate protection research projects and invests in particular in studies into innovative techniques for the capture and utilisation of CO2. By doing so, we also fulfil our obligation under the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative (LCTPi): during the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2015 (COP21) in Paris, HeidelbergCement and At our cement plant in Lixhe, Belgium, the LEILAC consortium is working 17 other cement companies signed the LCTPi, which was launched by on capturing CO2 in its purest form and thereby reducing the carbon the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). footprint of cement production. The LCTPi for cement is an ambitious long-term project to scale up deployment of low-carbon-dioxide technologies in industry. To achieve 2019, and actual process trials have begun. The first promising results this goal and ensure the economic viability of large-scale deployment, were published at the start of December 2019, and further trials will necessary policy actions have been defined, including technologies to take place in 2020. In 2019, numerous delegations from all over the capture, utilise, and store carbon dioxide. world visited the LEILAC operational site in Lixhe, including industry and media representatives from Asia, the Middle East, and most EuroCurrent research projects investigating carbon capture pean countries. In spring 2020, a decision was made to scale up the LEILAC technology to an industrial scale. In the LEILAC 2 project, a LEILAC (Low Emissions Intensity Lime And Cement) system around four times as large will be operated at a HeidelbergThe EU-funded LEILAC (Low Emissions Intensity Lime And Cement) Cement plant, still to be determined, in Western Europe. project, in which HeidelbergCement is one of the strategic partners, www.project-leilac.eu started in January 2016. This project aims to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of a process technology designed to capture CO2 in its purest form when it is released as the raw material is heated. After extensive preparations, work began at our cement plant in Lixhe, Belgium, in 2018 to construct the 60-metre-high demonstration calciner. The construction work was completed in the first half of 43 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility AC2OCEM – ongoing development of oxyfuel technology for absorbing CO2 and the possibility of using them to produce marCO2 capture ketable building materials. Besides natural minerals like olivine and In the oxyfuel process, the rotary kiln is supplied with pure oxygen basalt, industrial waste products such as slag or fines made from instead of ambient air, which facilitates the capture of CO2. To recycled concrete are also being tested. The three-year research and further develop the oxyfuel technology, HeidelbergCement particidevelopment programme received €3 million in funding from the pates in the AC2OCEM project, which aims to drive forward the use German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), and of technologies for the capture of CO2 in the cement industry and has now been extended by a further year to the end of 2020 in is co-financed by the ACT (Accelerating CCS Technologies) Euroorder to establish a solid calculation method for carbonation pean development programme. As part of the AC2OCEM project, potential. the first-generation oxyfuel technology, which aims to modify existing kiln lines, and the second-generation oxyfuel technology In parallel, another research project was awarded funding in 2019: for use in new systems will be investigated. the C2inCO2 project – calcium carbonation for the industrial http://ac2ocem.eu-projects.de use of CO2 – explores the potential of adding CO2 to recycled waste concrete, so that it can be used as a building material. By catch4climate – applicability of oxyfuel technology to cement devel-oping optimised preparation processes and efficient plants carbonation methods, it addresses the two key elements that Besides AC2OCEM, HeidelbergCement launched the catch4climate are needed to close the CO2 and material cycle in the cement research project with three other European cement manufacturand concrete in-dustry. The three year project is supported by ers. This project investigates the practical applicability of oxyfuel the BMBF as part of the CO2-WIN funding initiative. With a technology to the cement manufacturing process. Together with funding volume totalling €3.2 million (overall budget: €6.0 Schwenk, Buzzi, and Vicat, HeidelbergCement hopes that catchmillion), C2inCO2 is the biggest project funded in the 4climate will create the necessary conditions for large-scale use tender. Besides HeidelbergCement as the project of low-energy and therefore more cost-effective technologies for coordinator, thyssenkrupp IS, Loesche and Sika, the German CO2 capture at cement plants, in order to allow the CO2 to be used universities of Aachen and Weimar, and the Fraunhofer subsequently as a raw material for other industrial processes, for Institute for Building Physics are also contributing to the example. implementation of this concept. Current research projects investigating carbon sequestration By recarbonating the cement dust generated in concrete recycling, and utilisation we can return CO2 to the cement and concrete materials cycle. This process requires access to sufficient quantities of demolition conRecarbonation of cement dust in concrete recycling processes crete and cost-effective management of the material streams of In 2017, HeidelbergCement launched the CO2MIN project in collarecycled material and CO2. The concept’s technical feasibility boration with RWTH Aachen University and the Institute for has already been examined, and pilot projects are being planned. Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, Germany. This project aims to investigate the potential of natural minerals for 44 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Long-term storage of CO2 Brevik, Norway Since 2011, a project for the capture and storage of CO2 (CCS – Carbon Capture and Storage) in the cement industry has been running at the HeidelbergCement subsidiary Norcem in Brevik, Norway. Following the conclusion of a comprehensive feasibility study in 2015/2016, the project at the Brevik cement plant in Norway has now undergone pre-FEED and FEED studies. The Norwegian government is examining the FEED documents and is expected to make a decision in October 2020 regarding financial support for implementing this project, which will involve the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 a year. According to the planned schedule, the CO2 emissions captured as part of the project will be transported to an Algae can absorb as much as twice their weight of CO2. At our plant in Safi, underground storage site below the North Sea from 2024. Morocco, they are bred and processed into animal feed additive. https://www.norcem.no/en/CCS Use of CO2 in algae cultivation Edmonton/Alberta, Canada In cooperation with our Dutch partner OmegaGreen, we launched At our cement plant in Edmonton/Alberta, Canada, the organa large-scale research and demonstration project in 2018 to use CO2 isation Emissions Reduction Alberta (ERA) is providing 1.4 million from the cement kiln to produce microalgae at our Safi cement Canadian dollars for a feasibility study for an industrial-scale project plant in Morocco. The algae produced in this way can be used as for the capture and storage of CO2 (CCS – Carbon Capture and a high-quality animal feed additive. With our investment of over Storage). The study comprises technical designs, cost estimates, and €1.4 million, we have constructed an algae farm of approximately a comprehensive profitability analysis. In the next step, detailed 5,000 m2. Preliminary trials for the selection of suitable algae species FEED studies will be carried out. were completed successfully at the start of 2019, which meant that  More information on our research projects: p. 24 of the AR 2019 we were able to begin the actual breeding trials from the middle of the year. During 2019, we produced several species of algae, which were examined by specialist laboratories and future customers and found to fulfil all specifications and quality criteria. The algae farm is operated by a local team, which means that new and sustainable jobs have been created in Safi in an innovative field. 45 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Transforming our fleet in Northern Europe – HeidelbergCement is the only company worldwide to operate cement vessels running on liquefied natural gas. – The climate benefits from significant emission reduction. – The new vessel “MS Shetland” (see picture) was awarded 5 stars by the Clean Shipping Index. Liquid natural gas is taking over our cement fleet To make maritime transport more sustainable, we are gradually changing our fossil fuel-powered fleet into a fleet operating on natural gas. The MS Greenland, which runs on natural gas, has achieved a 45% reduction in CO2 emissions compared with the previous generation of cement vessels 45% on the route between the Slite cement plant and the Malmö terminal in Sweden. Moreover, by using liquefied natural gas, all hazardous substances are removed, and sulphur emissions are reduced to a minimum. CO2 emissions: the MS Greenland runs on liquefied 1 = 352 natural gas and is part of our The biggest benefit of maritime transport is the large fleet in Northern Europe. transport capacity of the ships and the smaller quantity of CO2 emissions produced per tonne of material compared with other means of transport. Alongside electric motors, hydrogen and ammoniac are being investigated for their use as fuels. 46 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Alternative fuels Alternative fuels 24% Many waste materials and by-products from other industries serve as valuable raw materials for HeidelbergCement. We use these resources as alternatives to finite natural raw materials and fossil fuels in the production of cement. In this way, we are helping to conserve resources and solve the problems associated with waste disposal faced by municipalities and industrial companies near our was the alternative fuel rate in 2019. plants. At the same time, these efforts are also reducing our CO2 emissions, because the biomass that accounts for around 38.1% of the alternative fuel mix is classified as climate neutral. Alternative fuels replace natural resources modernisation and efficiency improvements as well as environmenThe Alternative Fuel Master Plan project was launched in mid-2018. tal protection in our German cement plants. These include the two It aims to increase the proportion of alternative fuels across the newly constructed clinker production lines in Burglengenfeld and Group, helping us to meet our commitment to reduce CO2 emissions Schelklingen, Germany, which are set to have alternative fuel rates by 2030. The project is being led by a working group comprising of 90%. experts from various Group areas and departments. In 2019, the proportion of alternative fuels in the fuel mix was 24%. In 2019, we significantly increased the proportion of alternative By 2030, we intend to increase this figure to 30%. fuels used in several countries. This is predominantly waste that cannot be recycled in full and would therefore be uneconomical to Use of hazardous materials recycle. In this scenario, co-processing in clinker kilns is regarded as The careful handling of hazardous wastes is a key element of every a worthwhile option, as it not only uses the waste’s calorific value country’s waste disposal infrastructure. For most types of hazardmuch more efficiently compared with waste incineration plants but ous waste, reuse in cement plants has proved to be a safe means also embeds its mineral components into the clinker. The waste is of disposal and utilisation. The high temperatures of over 1,450°C co-processed without any residue while complying with the same and long incineration period in the kilns ensure that all harmful strict emission standards as waste incineration plants. components are completely destroyed. This has been confirmed by measurements taken by independent state-certified institutes. During the reporting year, we made various investments in the use Certain specific types of waste, such as nuclear waste, are not used of alternative fuels. For example, in our cement plant in Devnya, by HeidelbergCement. Bulgaria, we implemented a project to supply alternative fuels directly to the main burner. This has allowed the plant to significantly increase the proportion of alternative fuels used. Another point of focus regarding optimisation and environmental protection was on the projects of the Germany Cement Master Plan for 47 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Land use & biodiversity Reclamation plans 88% We only extract worthwhile deposits if they can be exploited in an environmentally compatible and economical manner. Before making any decision concerning the development of a new quarry or the expansion of an existing one, the company first conducts an extensive approval process in line with the corresponding laws and regulations. Our sites are operated in accordance with releof our quarries in the cement business line and 79% in the vant international, national, and local environmental legislation, aggregates business line have reclamation plans. and environmental impact assessments are generally prepared as a pre-requisite for the permitting of quarrying activities. Through this process, we manage our impact on biodiversity in line with the sequential steps of the mitigation hierarchy: avoid, minimise and mitigate. Biodiversity management at our quarries As early as 2010, we began to collect and analyse information about Concepts for the limitation of land consumption the biodiversity value of our quarries. In cooperation with our partFor environmental and economic reasons, we strive to limit land ner, BirdLife International, we conducted a study to determine how consumption when planning our quarrying and reclamation activfar our quarries are from areas of recognised high biodiversity value ities. As a matter of principle, the authorised raw material supply in Europe, Africa, and Asia. The study has now been extended to is always completely extracted in order to minimise land consumpcover all our active extraction sites worldwide. We are collecting tion. We therefore prefer to expand existing quarries rather than data about the proportion of active quarries in areas with a high develop new sites. When constructing production and plant facililevel of biodiversity and for which biodiversity management plans ties, we also take care to use as little land as possible. are being implemented. In 2019, this proportion amounted to 47% of cement quarries and 49% of aggregates quarries. We are steadily Subsequent use and reclamation extending biodiversity monitoring to more and more quarries and Reclamation plans are now an integral part of approval processes. implementing corresponding management plans. These plans define the goals and timetable for the reintegration of a quarry into the surrounding landscape. Even while a quarry Protecting biodiversity and habitats is still in operation, we reclaim those areas of the quarry that are We believe in helping to conserve habitats and biodiversity features no longer used. In 2019, the proportion of quarries with after-use throughout the life cycle of our quarrying sites. Even during the plans was 88% for cement and 79% for aggregates. We intend to extraction phase at an operational site, we can create optimal conincrease these figures to 100% by 2030 at the latest. ditions for threatened species that are associated with early stages 48 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Poland for 150 community members, pollinators becoming a key criteria when developing planting plans in Australia and in Benin we are trialing bee hives created out of our own product – concrete. We furthered our work on invasives by supplementing our 2018 internal guidelines on European invasive alien plant species by developing identification guides tailored to each of the regions we operate in. These guides provide a first step in enabling site staff to identify problematic species and integrate appropriate actions into biodiversity management plans. Cooperation with nature conservation organisations We work with many local nature conservation organisations worldwide. Our partnership with the largest international nature conservation organisation, BirdLife International, which we began in At numerous locations of HeidelbergCement, projects are realised 2012, was extended for a further three years in 2018, for the third to increase the population of pollinators by providing habitats and time in succession. The interaction with BirdLife International and nesting places. our cooperation with its national partner organisations help us to minimise our impact on the environment and promote biodiversity of ecological succession. Through the reclamation process, we are at our quarrying sites and in their surroundings. Besides the proalso able to create new habitats, such as wetlands and species-rich jects connected with the Quarry Life Award, over 30 local projects grasslands, and integrate biodiversity features into any intended were undertaken at locations in Europe and in African countries subsequent use. In Europe in particular, our quarries are now imbetween the beginning of the partnership and the end of 2018. An portant refuges and stepping-stone habitats for specially protected interactive map on the BirdLife website provides information about species such as the sand martin, the yellow-bellied toad, the eagle a selection of our joint projects: owl, and the Eurasian otter, which are accordingly also the focus of www.birdlife.org/europe-and-central-asia/project/project-map numerous biodiversity projects. www.birdlife.org In 2019, in support of the massive population decline in insect populations, we held an awareness raising campaign across the Group on pollinators and sort site staff engagement through a photo competition. Specific practical advice was disseminated to all employees about how to increase not only the value of quarries for pollinators, but also our office/industrial locations and even employees’ homes. The initiative was picked up across our estate with example projects including a pollinator picnic event held in 49 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Quarry Life Award HeidelbergCement’s research and education competition, the Quarry Life Award, is targeted at scientists, university students, and non-governmental organisations as well as our neighbours in the communities where our facilities are located. All of these groups are invited to develop and – provided they qualify to participate in the competition – implement biodiversityrelated projects focused on our company’s quarries worldwide. In this way, we want to promote the evaluation of the quarries’ biological value and support the development of new methods that benefit scientists and government authorities as well as our company. The sand martin is a frequent visitor to many of our quarries: the little birds nest in the freshly created quarry faces to breed. One of our most iconic quarry birds, particularly in Europe is the sand martin which is a migratory bird, travelling north from Africa each spring to nest in our sites before heading back south to overwinter. In recognition of the role our quarries play for migratory birds such as the sand martin, during 2019 we sponsored the BirdLife International yearly campaign: Spring Alive. Predominately an educational campaign, Spring Alive engages children, their Up to 2018, we have successfully organised four Quarry Life Award compefamilies and teachers through the BirdLife partners across Eurasia titions. In order to allow more time for the winning projects to be impleand Africa about migratory birds and the threats they face during mented, the competition will now be held every three years rather than every their biannual migration. Our involvement in the campaign resulted two years. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the start of the fifth edition of in the inclusion of sand martin as a focus species, and special the Quarry Life Award had to be postponed to 2021. www.quarrylifeaward.com events took place at our sites across six countries: Ghana, Morocco, Czechia, Poland, Romania, and Georgia. 50 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Local environmental impact We monitor emissions of air pollutants on an ongoing basis. By using new filter technologies and innovative production processes, Air pollutants and noise we reduce pollutants and thus mitigate the impact of our activities In addition to addressing the issues of dust and noise, Heidelbergon the environment and neighbouring communities. For example, Cement faces a particular challenge in terms of the air pollutant we made several investments in 2019 to reduce dust emissions: an emissions from the cement business line. While dust and noise are electrostatic precipitator was replaced by a fabric filter in kiln line emitted from different points in the production process, nitrogen 4 at the Bukhtarma plant in Kazakhstan, while several smaller filter oxides, sulphur oxides, and other air pollutants are mainly emitted systems were modernised at other cement plants. from kiln lines. There are national legal limits that must be observed by all production locations. As part of its Sustainability ComIn order to reduce NOX emissions, we commissioned a high-dust mitments 2030, HeidelbergCement has also pledged to reduce air selective catalytic reduction (SCR) system at the Geseke plant in pollutants. By 2030, we aim to reduce the SOX and NOX emissions Germany during the reporting year. At the new kiln line in Schelkgenerated in our cement production by 40% – and dust emissions lingen, Germany, the calciner technology, which makes use of a by 80% – in comparison with 2008 levels. This is in addition to our selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) system, is able to achieve objective to continuously reduce all other air pollutant emissions, very low concentrations of NOX emissions. Besides a significant bringing them down below the average of the industry. reduction in these emissions, this investment has also led to a decrease in the carbon footprint. Reduction of specific emissions (g/t clinker) A modern scrubber was installed in the Kjöpsvik cement plant in Norway to reduce SOX emissions. Water management SOX NOX Dust HeidelbergCement has committed itself to the goal of minimising the impact of its activities on natural water resources. We comply with stringent environmental regulations to ensure that our raw material quarrying will not endanger local bodies of surface water or groundwater resources. -28% -20% -80% Water is hugely important for our production processes and is used, for example, when washing gravel and sand as well as for 2008–2019 2008–2019 2008–2019 cooling or cleaning transport vehicles. Water is also one of the source materials for concrete manufacturing and becomes part of the building material during its production. We obtain some of the water we use from the public water supply, but the majority comes from the groundwater or from rivers and lakes. Withdrawals from groundwater and surface waters are heavily regulated by 51 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility governments worldwide and regularly monitored. Some of the water – the water used for cooling, for instance – evaporates and is released into the atmosphere. The remaining industrial water from production is returned to the surface water after being cleaned and subjected to stringent checks. The cleaning water that accumulates when transport vehicles are washed is recycled completely. We dispose of the domestic wastewater accruing at our company buildings via the municipal wastewater systems. In recent years, we have introduced a water reporting system at all of our company’s cement plants. The specific water consumption amounted to roughly 270 litres per tonne of cement in 2019. The reduction achieved in the last two years is due to the conversion to closed cooling circuits and the complete recycling of process water. In 2015, we also started to introduce key figures on water reporting Water is hugely important for our production processes and is used as in our aggregates and ready-mixed concrete business lines. As there shown here, for example, for the wet mining of sand and gravel. are more than two thousand operational sites in all, implementaWe minimise the impact of our activities on natural water resources. tion is not expected to be completed until 2030. In 2014 already, a global water-risk study supplied us with fundamental information for the creation of a Group-wide guideline conWater management cerning sustainable water management in the cement, aggregates, 267 L and ready-mixed concrete business lines. We updated this data in 2019, while adjusting our methodology. To do this, we made use of the World Resources Institute’s online Aqueduct database, which provides information on water risks worldwide. The updated study showed that around 36% of our plants are located in regions where water scarcity is projected for 2030. The increase in this was the specific water consumption per tonne of cement proportion from 14% in the previous year is due to the change in in 2019. our methodology and the use of a more comprehensive definition of water scarcity1), reflecting the huge significance of this topic. 1) We define water scarcity as high or extremely high water stress in a region, projected for 2030. Around 16% of our locations are in regions with extremely high water stress, and around 20% in regions with high water stress. 52 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Back in 2015, in response to the first water-risk study, we began improving our ecological efficiency. In some exceptional cases, the developing individual water management plans for those plants in locally produced cement type portfolio prevents us from being able regions suffering from water scarcity. The plans include concepts to recycle it in full. A second possibility for us is to use the kiln dust and measures to ensure careful use of scarce water resources and as a raw material for the production of special concrete. If no other enable local stakeholders to become involved so that the water option is available, it can be deposited in underground landfill sites utilisation concepts support the common good and thus minimise in a controlled process. The local operating permit at each plant local water risks. Implementation of these plans will begin at those specifies the allowable amount of process-related waste products locations where water scarcity is an especially urgent problem. and how it is to be used. These activities were continued in 2019 and will be expanded over the next few years. Our objective is to have water management plans in place by 2030 for all plants in regions affected by water Management of supplier relations scarcity. Alongside this process, we are developing a global strategic water reduction plan, which aims to coordinate the work at Group In the reporting year, HeidelbergCement procured goods and level and reduce water consumption locally, wherever economically services with a total value of €12,654 million. This corresponds to and technically possible. Because we are facing a water surplus in 67.1% of total revenue. other regions of the world, where we need to pump off large quantities of water in order to operate our quarries, it does not make Expenditure by category sense to define a general reduction target based on water withdrawals for the Group. Indirect expenditures (e.g. IT, In 2019, we once again reported on the key figures for water from insurance, 9.8% Consumables consulting) 21.9% 2018 and on our strategy and governance on this topic to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Thanks to our long-term 10.5% Investments success and our transparent reporting, we repeated the success of Energy 20.2% the previous year and achieved an “A-” classification in the water security category of the CDP company ranking for 2019. This distinc18.9% Raw materials Logistics and tion confirms HeidelbergCement’s leading role within the industry. other services 18.6% www.cdp.net Waste materials Our primary focus in terms of waste management concerns the kiln dust that is a by-product of clinker production. This dust has to be removed from the kiln systems at several facilities in order to prevent disruptions to proper kiln operations. We generally use the kiln dust as an alternative raw material in cement production, thereby 53 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility HeidelbergCement strives to ensure compliance with sustainability Measures for 2020 standards in the supply chain. Group-wide purchasing guidelines In 2020, we will continue to expand the use of the Group-wide ontherefore provide clear instructions regarding our supplier relations line platform for supplier management. We will keep consistently and purchasing activities. The most important tool used for this seizing opportunities offered by digitalisation in order to guaranpurpose is our Supplier Code of Conduct, which we consistently tee transparency and sustainability in the supply chain. communicate to our global and local suppliers, who are obligated to act in line with the principles defined in the Code. The Code The global Supplier Sustainability Initiative will also be impleincorporates the key elements of the SA 8000 International Social mented in additional countries, with the aim of introducing a comAccountability Standard, the ISO 14001 international environprehensive global standard. However, where appropriate, we will mental standard, and the principles of the International Labour also take into account specific local requirements relating to supOrganization (ILO). If a supplier fails to abide by the Code and does plier sustainability. The 2020 rollout will focus on critical suppliers not correct a weakness or deficiency that has been identified, this who are new and/or have not yet been reviewed. can result in the termination of the contractual relationship. Our Supplier Sustainability Initiative was also further developed As a company with global and rolled out to other locations in 2019. In cooperation with our operations, we are committed sustainability partner BROWZ/Avetta, additional suppliers were to acting responsibly along reviewed according to defined sustainability criteria. The process the entire supply chain. actively monitors our suppliers’ compliance with the principles outlined in the Supplier Code of Conduct. This goes well beyond Dr. Ines Ploss Director Group Purchasing the previous self-commitment by suppliers to the Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2019, we drove forward the use of our central online platform for supplier management. This platform simplifies the systematic recording and consolidation of supplier data as well as its assessment in accordance with the sustainability aspects addressed in our Supplier Code of Conduct. 54 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & Employment 56 Figures, data, facts 57 Principles 58 Employment & co-determination 58 Remuneration policy & working time regulation 59 Occupational health & safety 63 Human resources development 65 Diversity management Image: Employees of the Cementa AB cement plant in Slite, Sweden 55 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Development of accident figures p. 62 A 9.5% reduction in the accident frequency rate across the Group was achieved in 2019. We continuously strive to minimise the risks for our employees, contractors, and third parties and to achieve our goal of “zero harm”. Ongoing training p. 63 Good work needs a More than 3,000 employees positive environment have now registered for our Cement Manufacturing Curriculum, a web-based learning programme. In 2019, the range of e-learning programmes was expanded considerably, particularly in the areas of pyroprocessing and materials handling technology. Qualified and motivated employees are an important prerequisite for the success of Diversity as a success factor p. 65 HeidelbergCement. Identifying our employees’ talents and developing them is therefore at the core of the Group-wide personnel policy. Employees from 52 countries We attach particular importance to occuwork at the Group headquarters in Heidelberg and at our technical centers in Heidelberg and Leimen. We benefit considerpational safety and the protection of our ably from their experience and their knowledge of our local employees’ health. markets. 56 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Around 55,000 women and men work for HeidelbergCement worldwide. Their achievements make us one of the leading companies in our sector. That’s why it is crucial to provide them with attractive working conditions. As a manufacturing company, we also attach particular importance to occupational safety and the protection of our employees’ health. Principles For us, a good personnel policy means having due and proper regard for our employees with their range of talents and wealth of experience. And it therefore means creating the right conditions to allow them to do their job with efficiency and dedication. This includes fair remuneration and tailor-made qualification opportuOur 55,000 employees at HeidelbergCement are at the center of nities in addition to a non-discriminatory working environment and our personnel policy. With their professional and social capabilities, flexible conditions that allow them to reconcile professional and they contribute to the company’s success. family demands. Another area of particular importance to us as a manufacturing company is occupational safety and the protection We believe that law-abiding and ethical behaviour is a key requireof our employees’ health. We are proud of the international nature ment of good leadership and of each and every employee. This is of the workforce at our headquarters and in our technical centers why the Managing Board has approved a Code of Business Conduct in Heidelberg and Leimen, which is made up of local managers and that is binding across the Group and specifies our values as well as employees from 52 countries. Our staff form the foundation of the the ethical and legal standards upheld at our company. In particuworldwide success of HeidelbergCement. lar, this includes non-discriminatory employment conditions and an open and fair dialogue with employee representatives. Our Leadership Principles prescribe binding rules for personnel management. They concern, for example, respectful behaviour HeidelbergCement also subscribes to the core labour standards of towards co-workers, employee development, and a commitment the International Labour Organization (ILO), the OECD Guidelines to our company’s strong feedback culture. The main leadership for Multinational Enterprises, and the United Nations’ Universal principles are embedded in standard human resources processes Declaration of Human Rights as well as the UN Guiding Principles and described in detail in HeidelbergCement’s Human Resources on Business and Human Rights. Moreover, we have enshrined this Guidelines. commitment in our Leadership Principles. We expect our employees and our business partners worldwide to comply with these central guidelines and recommendations. 57 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees Group management and employee representatives also engage in a continuous, constructive dialogue in the European Council of 55,047 Employees. This council supplements the information and consultation processes that take place at a local level in the individual European countries. In addition, there are trade unions and similar organisations in nearly all of the countries in which HeidelbergCement operates. people were employed by HeidelbergCement at more than As required by our Code of Business Conduct, we also engage in a 3,000 locations in over 50 countries at the end of 2019. fair and open dialogue with representatives of these organisations. In the event of a reorganisation or job cuts, we work in close consultation with employee representatives to achieve a socially responEmployment & co-determination sible solution. For example, we initially examine the possibility of transferring employees within the Group. If this is not feasible, Development of the number of employees worldwide we try to cushion the individual impact through retraining, earlyAt the end of 2019, the number of employees at HeidelbergCement retirement schemes, outplacement, and severance payments. came to 55,047 (previous year: 57,939). The decrease of around 2,900 employees essentially results from two opposing developments. On the one hand, around 3,700 jobs were cut across the Remuneration policy & working time Group due to portfolio optimisations, the realisation of synergies, regulation efficiency increases in sales and administration, as well as location optimisations. On the other hand, approximately 800 new employOur remuneration systems are based on performance and results in ees joined the Group. This increase was due to first-time consoliaccordance with the market standards for internationally operatdations in France and North America as well as new hires in some ing companies in our sector. Alongside fixed salaries governed by a countries in the Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia and collective agreement or an individual work contract, our employees Asia-Pacific Group areas. also receive variable remuneration elements based on their individual performance and on corporate success. GRI 102-41 Dialogue with employee representatives HeidelbergCement has a long tradition of employee co-determination, We consciously aim to achieve a high variable element as part of the which has demonstrated its worth at our locations in Germany. total remuneration of our managers in order to directly reflect the Members of the employee committees at the individual locations connection between personal performance and corporate success. form the General Council of Employees for HeidelbergCement AG as well as the Group Council of Employees. Moreover, employees are equally represented on the Supervisory Board. 58 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility The employees in our foreign subsidiaries benefit from attractive remuneration systems that correspond to the respective local market conditions. Collective regulations apply to more than half of the Group’s employees. Personnel costs and social benefits Expenditure on wages and salaries, social security costs, costs of retirement benefits, and other personnel costs rose by 5.1% in comparison with the previous year to €3,187 million (previous year: 3,032). This corresponds to a share in revenue of 16.9% (previous year: 16.8%). The amount of the contribution to the pension scheme at HeidelbergCement is based on accepted market standards. In Germany, we have created a matching model of contributions from the employer To prevent job-related illnesses, we check our work sites for exposure and the employees within the framework of the pension scheme. to factors hazardous to health and we train our employees in a wide range In countries without statutory retirement or health insurance, we of occupational safety topics. support our employees at least in line with local practices. Working time regulation Occupational health & safety In our working time regulations, we conform to the legal requirements in effect at our locations. We promote adherence to these Occupational health and safety has top priority at Heidelbergregulations by means of our compliance system, which enables emCement and is an integral part of our key corporate values. Our ployees to individually report possible violations (passive monitordeclared aim is to achieve “zero harm”. With effective preventative ing). To promote flexible working time options, we offer models measures, we intend to minimise the risk of accidents and injuries as such as flexitime, working time accounts, part-time work, and leaves well as the risk of occupational illness. Our principles for protecting of absence to our employees in many countries. Older employees the workforce are specified in our Group policy on occupational have the option of switching to partial retirement. The part-time health and safety. ratio at HeidelbergCement AG is 11% (previous year: 12%); for the www.heidelbergcement.com/en/occupational-health-and-safety Group as a whole, it is unchanged at 2.3%. Responsibility and organisation At HeidelbergCement, all management levels are accountable for occupational health and safety. Our occupational safety organisation falls within the remit of the Chairman of the Managing Board, to whom the Director Group Human Resources, who is responsible 59 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility for Group Health & Safety, reports directly. The Managing Board The health and safety of our employees is members who oversee the different Group areas are in turn supa top priority for HeidelbergCement. We ported by H&S advisors who report directly to them. work hard every day to achieve our “Zero Individual occupational health and safety measures designed to Harm” goal, whether through extensive tackle any weak points are defined either by Group Health & Safety training activities or the optimisation of or the local units, depending on the nature and impact. Occupasafety measures at our locations. tional safety measures are part of the personal goal agreements Dr. Klaus Hormann for the Managing Board and the top operations managers in the Manager Health & Safety, Group Human Resources various countries, who adapt them to relevant target groups at location level. Last but not least, each individual employee, contractor, and visitor is responsible for following the occupational safety regulations. Targets and commitments We believe that injuries, occupational illnesses, and work-related Occupational health and safety management systems, such as those health impairments are avoidable. That’s why we continuously in accordance with the internationally accepted OHSAS 18001 and strive to minimise the risks for our employees, contractors, and third ISO 45001 standards, have already been implemented in 88% of parties and to achieve our goal of “zero harm”, which we also reitour locations. These systems require a structured approach from the erated in our Sustainability Commitments 2030. local line managers with planning, clear and safe work procedures, responsibilities, and controls to ensure an ongoing improvement In all countries, occupational health and safety is subject to legal process and thus prevent accidents. requirements that have to be fulfilled. Furthermore, as a member of the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA), HeidelbergCement is bound by its guidelines. These have been integrated into Occupational safety our internal standards. 88% As part of our Group policy on occupational health and safety, we have defined a set of “cardinal rules” that are mandatory for all employees and contractors. They relate in particular to those activities that have been identified as main risk areas for accidents. They are therefore also addressed in specific Group standards and must of our operational sites already have a work management be translated into local regulations. Through intensive training system. measures, we aim to ensure that everyone affected remains aware of these risk areas in order to decrease the number of accidents – especially those resulting in fatalities. 60 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility WASH Pledge The WASH Pledge: consistent with our Sustainability Commitments 2030 HeidelbergCement actively supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal to ensure that everyone has access to safe and affordable drinking water. In May 2018, we therefore signed the Access to Safe Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) at the Workplace Pledge, organised by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Most of our locations already meet the WASH standards The HeidelbergCement Group’s first self-assessment was We signed the carried out in 2018 and revealed that most locations already meet the WASH standards. This result was confirmed Access to Safe Water, by the 2019 self-assessment. Above all, we are using the self-assessment tool, which is provided by the WBCSD, to Sanitation, and Hygiene continuously improve our processes and to take action where there is still potential for improvement. By 2021, we aim to satisfy all of the requirements of the WASH Pledge (WASH) at the Workplace at our around 3,000 locations. For this reason, a special focus in 2019 was placed on actively supporting the Pledge. By doing so, we made a commitment to country organizations in carrying out the self-assessment guarantee all our employees have access to drinking and on drawing up action plans at sites that show potential for improvement. water as well as sanitation and hygiene facilities. 61 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Occupational safety as a management task Accident trends for the HeidelbergCement Group We train our employees in a wide range of occupational safety 2017 2018 2019 topics that are both legally mandated and defined internally, to Accident frequency rate 1) 1.9 1.7 1.5 raise their awareness of the risks connected with their tasks and Accident severity indicator 2) 90 70 80 thus decrease the number of accidents – especially those resulting in Fatality rate 3) 0.4 0.4 0.7 fatalities. We make use of conventional training held in classrooms, 1) Number of accidents involving Group employees with at least one lost working day training centers, or on site, in addition to e-learning courses, which per 1,000,000 hours worked. are only ever used to supplement face-to-face training. Occupa2) Number of working days lost due to accidents involving Group employees per 1,000,000 hours worked. tional safety topics account for around 48% of all training hours 3) Number of fatalities of Group employees per 10,000 Group employees. at HeidelbergCement, corresponding to an average of around 12.7 hours per employee across the Group. In 2019, traffic accidents occurring during the transportation of our Development of accident figures products once again formed a significant proportion of all accidents Occupational health and safety is one of the core values of our comresulting in fatalities. Many of these transportations were carried pany and therefore a fundamental element of our work processes. out by external forwarding companies working on our behalf. Our priority is to ensure that employees return home healthy at When we revised the Driving Safety Group standard in 2019, we the end of the working day. In 2019, we decreased the accident therefore incorporated the new safety requirements drawn up by frequency rate across the Group by 9.5%. Although many of our experts in working groups. These include, for example, equipping operational sites remained accident-free in 2019, we have not yet trucks with retroreflective markings or retrofitting heavy vehicles achieved our self-imposed Group goal of “zero harm”. We must used at our production sites with rear-view cameras. By including therefore continue to focus on suitable preventative measures. these requirements in our Group standard, we have made a commitment to implementing these measures promptly and carrying It was with great regret that in 2019 we had to announce the death out appropriate checks during plant inspections. of four of our own employees, who died as a result of accidents at work, one in a road accident. Furthermore, ten employees from Occupational illnesses external companies lost their lives, three of whom died in road The general illness rate at HeidelbergCement has been low for accidents. We analyse each accident and share the findings across many years and amounted to 1.1% of all hours worked in 2019. the Group in order to prevent similar accidents at other locations. Most of the cases of occupational illness acknowledged in recent Fatal accidents are also discussed by the Managing Board. years have involved noise-induced hearing impairment. In addition, some employees suffered from back problems and other musculoskeletal disorders or respiratory illnesses. 62 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility To prevent job-related illnesses, we check our work sites for ex– To fill key positions worldwide with top-class candidates from posure to factors hazardous to health and regularly send our emwithin the business ployees for medical examinations. In countries with less-developed – To develop top talent at HeidelbergCement in a targeted way statutory healthcare systems, our subsidiaries offer comprehensive – To retain employees in the Group for the long term by means health check-ups for all employees and in some instances for their of personalised development planning families. In regions where HIV/AIDS, Ebola, or malaria frequently occur, the local units have set up programmes to advise the employIn 2019, we focused on the Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin ees and inform them of the risks. These services are mostly offered region. A central screening process was carried out in this region for through our own medical stations or the medical staff of in-house all senior managers as well as middle management talent, and subclinics. sequent development planning also took place. The management training for the region will be harmonised further in 2020. Human resources development Ongoing training Forward-looking HR management means consistently investing in Talent management training, that is to say, employing and training qualified talent. The Qualified and motivated employees are an important prerequisite proportion of apprentices in Germany is 4% (previous year: 4%). for the success of HeidelbergCement. Identifying our employees’ The retention rate of these apprentices stands at 90% (previous talents, developing them, and – in competition with other comyear: 85%). panies – retaining those employees within the Group are therefore at the core of the Group-wide personnel policy. We use the Technical skills are essential in ensuring the functionally sound HeidelbergCement competence model to do so. This model defines operational management of process technology and maintenance the essential professional and personal capabilities and skills that in our plants. For a few years already, we have offered multilingual are critical for the success of our business. It thus enables the ree-learning courses about cement production, specifically developed spective superiors to perform systematic, Group-wide assessments by the German Cement Works Association (VDZ). of performance and potential in accordance with standardised regulations and serves as a basis for the strategic development of As in the previous year, a focus of our training programmes throughmanagers and successor planning. Superiors and employees discuss out the Group was on occupational safety, which made up around development opportunities and prospects within the framework of 48% (previous year: 61%) of the total training measures. Other structured appraisal interviews. The dialogue is primarily targeted priorities were specialist training, which made up 28% (previous at upper and middle management, those in specialist roles, and year: 23%), and the training of our managers, which made up 7% future executives. It helps us to attain three goals: (previous year: 4%). Our extensive training programmes in virtually every work area are characterised by practical and business-oriented learning and enable our employees to develop their skills. 63 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Our Aggregates Academy also continued its employee training offer in the aggregates business line. Over 100 training sessions on the topic of aggregates were held in 16 countries. These were mostly carried out locally in the form of practical training at production sites for the plant management teams. In 2019, a priority initiative on the topic of maintenance was launched, with numerous training sessions taking place. Strengthening digital competences In 2019, we started an initiative to support the digital transformation. From an HR perspective, this includes building and expanding our digital competences, supporting change processes for digital transformation, and further digitalising personnel processes and systems. Our efforts are focused on fundamental digital media skills The targeted building and expanding of our employees‘ digital as well as topics related to specific functions. To increase the transcompetences was a key component of our initiative to support the parency of our digital activities for employees, a platform was set digital transformation, which we started in 2019. up to provide information on the key global digitalisation projects and the tools used within the Group. In addition, e-learning courses The Cement Academy at our Heidelberg Technology Center (HTC) on various digitalisation topics are available. offers seminars and training sessions around the world for the engineers and technicians at our cement plants. In particular, the course Management training programme includes process technology and operations-related The motivation and skills of our managers play a crucial role in content. In 2019, 1,500 participants from all Group areas attended determining how well HeidelbergCement positions itself among 124 classroom training sessions, each lasting up to one week. The its global competitors and how prepared the Group is for future majority of the courses were delivered in cement plants and inchallenges. To equip our managers for their future tasks, we offer volved practical learning units on the equipment. training programmes tailored specifically to the needs of our company. This applies both to traditional topics, such as strategy, To supplement our classroom courses, we offer various webleadership, and management, or the method of capital expenditure based learning programmes, including the multilingual Cement budgeting, and to special training topics, for instance in the area Manufacturing Curriculum, on which more than 3,000 employees of technology. Uniform training content ensures that a common are enrolled. During the reporting year, the range of e-learning understanding of strategy, integrated management approach, and programmes was expanded considerably, particularly in the areas leadership is developed everywhere. of pyroprocessing and materials handling technology. We continue to offer our process control operators regular training on a process simulator (virtual cement plant). 64 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Securing and advancing future executives Recruiting future executives Since 2013, HeidelbergCement has been awarded the trainee seal 269 of the German Initiative für karrierefördernde und faire TraineeProgramme (initiative for career-enhancing and fair trainee programmes) each year for its high-quality programmes for the advancement of future executives. As a member of the Fair Company initiative, we have been voluntarily committed to the creation of fair working conditions for interns and young professionals since university graduates were hired by us in 2019. 2004 and have carried the Fair Company seal since then. In the reporting year, we continued our efforts to advance future executives. We offer university graduates international trainee programmes focusing on the areas of technology, sales, finance, HR, Moreover, we continued to work on expanding our programmes purchasing, and IT, and we also provide interdisciplinary trainee for the advancement of future executives and strengthening our programmes. In 2019, we hired 269 (previous year: 327) university recruitment of university graduates and graduates with first prograduates overall. After intensive recruiting activities in the past fessional experience worldwide. In 2019, 490 (previous year: 474) year, the numbers were thus only slightly below the target level. employees took part in programmes that prepared them for more advanced tasks. Through a special programme, we prepare highly qualified engineers in the cement business for senior engineering positions. The participants undergo individually tailored training programmes that allow them to gain the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience to prepare them for the next stage of their career. Spending time at cement plants that are operated in exemplary fashion in different countries is a key element of the programme’s success. Diversity management Diversity as a success factor When putting together teams of employees, it is our Group-wide personnel policy to prioritise diversity. We understand diversity as a management concept that brings together different cultures, perThe participants in the trainee programme of HeidelbergCement Deutschland (Germany) are gaining an insight into our three core businesses sonalities, talents, and levels of experience in a way that reflects the along the value chain: raw material extraction, cement production, and international and multiform character of our markets, our customer construction sites. structure, and our business environment. 65 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility We achieve this goal with the following measures: At the Group headquarters, we consciously aim to ensure that the – Local country management and therefore an international workforce is composed of employees from the countries in which management team we operate. We benefit considerably from their local knowledge, – An international workforce at the Group headquarters and this also facilitates cooperation with the local personnel. – A complementary composition of management and other We have 669 employees at the Group headquarters and at our teams (internationality, expertise, experience, age, gender, etc.) technical centers in Heidelberg and Leimen, with around two-thirds – Women in management positions reflecting the proportion of these employees coming from Germany and one-third from of women in the total workforce in Germany 51 other countries. Our goal is to attract and advance highly qualified and committed In early 2013, we signed the Diversity Charter as an affirmation of employees around the world who can bring various social and proall our activities in this area to date and as a public statement of our fessional skills to our company and thus contribute to our business respect for diversity. As in previous years, HeidelbergCement took success. part in activities connected with the German Diversity Day in 2019. www.charta-der-vielfalt.de/en/ With the international composition of our management team, we hope to benefit from a broad range of experience and different Women in leadership positions cultural backgrounds. This is linked to our goal of being able to For us, diversity also means that we reflect the ratio of women respond flexibly and quickly to global challenges as well as local to men in our workforce as a whole when hiring to fill managemarket needs. The proportion of local managers at the upper ment positions. Within the Group, women made up 13% of the management level amounts to around 80%. total workforce and held 10% of the upper management positions in 2019. As a listed and co-determined company, we have to set targets for the proportion of women in the two leadership levels Diversity below the Managing Board. Managers who report directly to the Managing Board form the first level at HeidelbergCement, 80% and any of their employees with leadership responsibility form the second level below the Managing Board. In 2019, the proportion of women in leadership positions in Germany at the first level below the Managing Board was 10% (previous year: 12%), and 14% (previous year: 13%) at the second level. was the proportion of local managers at our upper The aim is to increase the proportion of women in Germany in management level in 2019. both leadership levels below the Managing Board to 15% by the end of June 2022. HeidelbergCement is also committed to increasing the proportion of women in the Managing Board. For this reason, the Supervisory Board of HeidelbergCement has set itself the goal of appointing at least one female member of the Managing Board in the future. 66 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility We have worked on the promotion of women in the last few years Generation management and achieved significant success. The proportion of women in proOur Group, too, is faced with the consequences of demographic grammes for the advancement of future executives across Germany change. Around 12% (previous year: 12%) of our employees are is 31% (previous year: 26%) and therefore significantly higher than under the age of 30. The majority of the employees are aged the proportion of women in the total workforce. We have made between 30 and 49, making up around 52% (previous year: 54%) good progress in the appointment of women to leadership posof the Group’s total workforce, and 37% (previous year: 34%) of itions in staff functions. A big challenge remains the development our employees are over 50 years of age. in operational functions, such as sales and plant management, especially, since the number of women studying technical subWe are responding to the effects of demographic change with jects relevant for building materials production is still rather small. numerous measures adapted to regional requirements. In Germany, , qualification for assuming higher Experience in these fields is a key for example, we have continued to develop our health manageleading positions in these areas. ment activities and have incorporated them in the FIT for LIFE initiative. This includes a prevention programme for the early diagnosis The global NOW – Network of Women at HeidelbergCement is an of illnesses and risk factors, but primarily focuses on the initiative initiative that brings together female employees worldwide. NOW of individuals to adopt a healthy lifestyle. is implemented on a country-by-country basis through a personal exchange of information and experiences, as well as special, oneIn the future, our health management activities will continue to off events. focus on preventing typical age-related health risks and supporting health-conscious behaviour. We are therefore specifically promotIt aims, among other things, to support the network’s members ing company sports activities for all age groups. in developing their career potential and to increase awareness throughout the company of the changing demands on working and living environments. With their knowledge and skills, our employees make a key contribution to Improving the work-life balance HeidelbergCement’s success. Our offers In the race for the best employees, we adapt ourselves globally to are aimed at the best possible developsocial changes. In terms of what we offer to encourage a good workment of their skills and preparation life balance, we focus on flexible working time models and mobile for future challenges. We also support forms of work. Because of the small size of our locations, cooperation with external networks has proven itself, for example in terms a healthy work-life balance. of children’s day care and holiday programmes or caring for family Carmen Rex members. Employees benefit from having easy access to a profesDirector Group Human Resources sional and flexible network at reasonable costs. As part of our FIT for FAMILY initiative, we have entered into cooperation with day-care centers for the location in Heidelberg, Germany. These arrangements mean we have our own quota of places to offer our employees. 67 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Society & Corporate Responsibility 69 Figures, data, facts 70 Social responsibility 72 Social engagement at our locations Image: Employees of Ciments du Maroc organised activities as part of the “Clean Beaches” campaign on the beach of Safi, Morocco. 68 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Social responsibility p. 70 “Being a good neighbour” is one of the six goals in our Sustainability Commitments 2030. We involve the communities near our production sites in our business activities, for example through various dialogue formats, as well as through local community engagement plans. Social responsibility p. 70 Creating local Transparency and value efficiency We have production sites almost everywhere are at the heart of our social engagement. That is why countryspecific Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies were around the globe. Through our entrepredeveloped at several subsidiaries in 2019. neurial activities, we create added value for the communities in which we operate. Social engagement at our locations p. 72 We are also involved in community projects at our sites. Numerous projects and initiatives in the areas surrounding our locations received our support in 2019: for example, we organise regular environmental campaigns at our plants in Russia, while in Morocco we have renovated a number of schools in the communities surrounding our plants. 69 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility It is important to us that people in the areas surrounding our approxiWe involve local communities in our business activities through mately 3,000 locations worldwide are involved in our business various dialogue formats, for example, as well as through local activity and benefit from our products as well as the jobs that we community engagement plans. This also includes long-term partnercreate. Our economic performance allows us to generate added ships with local non-governmental organisations. Moreover, we value for local communities. In line with our principle “think global keep the communities at our locations informed by means of news– act local”, we also take measures that protect the environment letters, open days, and so on. The Group Handbook for Community and promote social progress. Relationship Management is a useful source of design and implementation strategies for dialogue formats, partnerships, and charitable involvement for countries and locations. GRI Social responsibility 102-40 In addition, the Group-wide Corporate Citizenship Policy defines Good cooperative relationships with the communities in the areas the general criteria and objectives related to our social engagewhere we are active are indispensable for our business operations ment. This engagement is focused on three areas in which we have and one of the keys to our business success. In these areas, we estabspecific expertise and can achieve the best results for society: lish business contacts, capitalise on local know-how, and maintain – Building, architecture, and infrastructure: We provide practical a dialogue with our neighbours. By making this voluntary commithelp in the construction of buildings and infrastructure by ment to society, we strengthen the exchange of ideas and achieve making products, financial means, and expertise available. long-term socio-economical added value for local communities. – Environment, climate, and biodiversity: We support initiatives that promote environmental protection and strengthen the We have made an express commitment to social responsibility in diversity of nature at our locations. the Leadership Principles adopted by our Managing Board. Taking – Education, training, and culture: In this area, we are guided social responsibility and maintaining good relationships with our by the specific needs of our locations. stakeholders are therefore management tasks. Together with the site managers, all country managers are responsible for these We have also defined clear evaluation criteria to ensure that our tasks in their respective countries. This also includes analysing local activities are both transparent and effective. We support projects, requirements as well as selecting, implementing, and monitoring initiatives, and organisations that are active at our locations or to charitable projects. Given the decentralised nature of these responwhich we have a direct link. We attach great importance to ensursibilities, it is not possible at present to make a statement as to the ing that the guidelines and principles of these organisations align financial scope of this Group-wide social engagement. with our own corporate philosophy. 70 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Protecting the environment at the Atlantic coast of Morocco Ciments du Maroc: social commitment at our location in Safi For almost 20 years, our subsidiary Ciments du Maroc has been active in the “Let our beaches smile” initiative in the Safi region. In 2019, numerous activities again took place at the beaches of Safi, Lalla Fatna, and Kouram Eddif in the context of the “Clean Beaches” campaign. Each of the three beaches has the “Blue Flag” certification, which marks beaches and marinas that meet sustainable tourism standards. Promoting education and environmental awareness With sports tournaments, games, and workshops, Ciments du Maroc called the beach visitors’ attention to environmental protection and other topics such as waste recycling, On 3 beaches first aid, and ecologically sound behaviour during the 2019 summer season. Several thousand people participated at each of the events, which were offered by employees at the Safi plant of Ciments du Maroc as part of their voluntary commitment to society. around the Moroccan costal town Safi, Ciments du Maroc shows its commitment to environmental protection. 71 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility “Being a good neighbour” means tying As part of the Sustainability Commitments 2030, adopted in Octothe knot between business and social ber 2017, we defined specific performance indicators that will allow us to measure the quality of our relationships with the communities development. This creates win-win at our locations: situations for HeidelbergCement and – Percentage of locations with a community engagement plan local communities. – Total value of annual donations (monetary/material donations) – Number and type of development programmes supported by Tobias Hartmann Corporate Social Responsibility Manager HeidelbergCement Global Environmental Sustainability – Hours of voluntary charitable work per year Social engagement at our locations In 2019, we again took further steps to strengthen the processes In 2019, many of our larger production locations worldwide once and improve the management structure of our social commitment again took steps to initiate dialogue with local residents at open in the various countries. The aim is to make our social commitment days, for example. To support local communities and demonstrate more systematic and more transparent, as well as more efficient that we are a responsible corporate citizen, we took a number of and targeted. During the year, country-specific Corporate Social measures and promoted various initiatives during the reporting Responsibility (CSR) policies were therefore developed at several year: for example, we organise regular environmental campaigns at subsidiaries. We continued to roll out Group Internal Audit’s proour plants in Russia, while in Morocco we have renovated a number gramme for the targeted handling of donations and CSR activities. of schools in the communities surrounding our plants. The Group also pursues a decentralised approach in this area, and the countries can contact the Global Environmental Sustainability In Germany, we have already been pursuing the project “Kooperdepartment for content-related support as required. ation Industrie-Schule” (KIS) for some years in Heidelberg, where our headquarters are located, and in several locations of our plants. The exact wording of our Corporate Citizenship Policy can be found This cooperation between industry and schools includes activities here: ranging from plant visits and special lectures at schools to holiday www.heidelbergcement.com/society programmes and supervised work with KiTec boxes, helping children to discover the world of technology. Both sides benefit from this cooperation: for the children, it facilitates access to technology, and our employees profit from the experience gained when dealing and talking with the pupils. 72 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Practical training for masons and joiners in Togo Being a good neighbour We have set ourselves the objective of supporting social and economic development in our neighbouring communities. In doing so, we strive to take a strategic approach and establish a link to our core business. In the area surrounding our plant in Tabligbo, Togo, we are working with the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) to develop modular training courses for masons and joiners. Creating new opportunities In Togo, particularly in rural areas, the quality of services In Togo, and products in the building trade is often inadequate. This is primarily due to a lack of opportunities for practical training. For this reason, many of the workers at the operating units are insufficiently qualified. At the same time, the lack of training opportunities for young people hinders their integration into working life, which in turn encourwe are creating new profesages migration to towns and cities. The aim of the project is therefore to create new professional opportunities sional opportunities for young for young people while improving the quality of the local building trade. people while improving the quality of the local building trade. 73 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Targets 75 Strategy & Management 75 Business & Compliance 76 Product & Innovation 76 Production & Supply Chain 77 Employees & Employment 78 Society & Corporate Responsibility Image: Employees of our subsidiary in Kazakhstan. 74 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & Management Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Commitment to sustainable cement production at industry Continuation of the reporting on the implementation of the In 2019, the environmental and occupational safety indicators Ongoing 18–21, and association level. GCCA guidelines for cement production. were once again subjected to an external audit in line with 37, 60, GCCA obligations. 89 Business & Compliance Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Further development of the Group compliance management Realisation of concrete measures to protect human rights, By the end of 2019, human risks analyses were carried Ongoing 25–28 programme and of Group compliance activities with regard including implementation of a human rights analysis. out in over two-thirds of the country organisations. to current developments. Target: Risk assessment for all countries in which HeidelbergThe methodical approach was audited externally and was Cement is active. Between 2018 and 2020, one-third of the deemed appropriate. country organisations are audited each year. Continuous improvement of customer satisfaction. Introduction of the Net Promoter System® (NPS) at Net Promoter System® introduced in 35 countries. Ongoing 31 HeidelbergCement in 2015 – for the ongoing analysis of – Net Promoter Score® for HeidelbergCement Group: customer satisfaction and needs, in order to continuously 2017: 47 improve the customer experience and our business results. 2018: 45 2019: 49 Efficient use of resources in order to earn a premium on our Disciplined investment and cash flow management. ContinuROIC of 6.9% compared with the weighted average cost of Ongoing 25, cost of capital. ation of programmes to increase efficiency. capital (WACC) of 6.6%. AR 2019 p. 39 Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 75 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & Innovation Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Identification of sustainable products in the HeidelbergDevelopment of a product evaluation tool (PET) and Introduction of the PET tool in 4 additional countries. 2023 38 Cement portfolio. introduction in a selection of representative countries. PET has thus been launched in a total of 10 countries: Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Czechia, Poland, Indonesia, France, Canada. Extension of the application of the PET Tool to a selection of The 10 country organisations PET has so far been introduced 2023 38 countries with revenue amounting to at least 25% of Group in account for 34.5% of Group revenue. revenue. Innovation in the areas of low-carbon concretes and cements, Continuation of the activities in the area of research and Consistent continuation of research and cooperation in the Ongoing 32–38, building materials recycling, and special concretes. technology. This includes participation in and coordination of areas of low-carbon concretes and cements, building materials 44 a research project in Germany to develop practice-oriented recycling, and special concretes. Initiation of the “C2inCO2” concepts for the use of recycled aggregates in concrete research project with HeidelbergCement as project coordinaproduction. tor and approval by the BMBF. Production & Supply Chain Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Environmental management All integrated cement plants are to operate with a certified Implementation of an action plan for the Group-wide control 93.5% of all integrated cement plants worldwide operate 2020 41, 76 environmental management system. and monitoring of the ongoing introduction of certified with an environmental management system. The number was environmental management systems. 96% in 2018, the decline is due to plant closures. CO2 emissions and alternative raw materials and fuels Reduction of the specific net CO2 emissions by 30% over the Investment for research in the following areas: energyAs at 2019: 2030 32–38, period from 1990 to 2030. efficient production processes, CO2 capture and use, – Reduction of approx. 22% to 589.8 kg CO2 per tonne of 43–47, composite cements with reduced clinker content, and new cement 82 clinker technologies. Increased use of alternative fuels and biomass. Investment for research into technologies for CO2 capture and CO2 recycling. Lowering clinker content of cement to 70%. Development of new composite cements. Use of alternative As at 2019: 2020 34–35, raw materials. – Clinker proportion: 74.5% (previous year: 74.8%) 84 Increasing the share of alternative fuels used to 30%. Focus on three waste flows: sorted fractions of household As at 2019: 2030 47, 84 and domestic waste with high calorific values, sewage sludge, – Proportion of alternative fuels: 24% (previous year: 22%) and hazardous waste. Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 76 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & Supply Chain Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Local environmental effects Monitoring of water consumption in all business lines. Monitoring of water consumption and introduction of key – Monitoring of water consumption in the cement business 2030 51–53, Implementation of measures to reduce consumption where figures on water reporting initially in the cement business line line. Specific water consumption in 2019: 267.3 L/t cement 85 economically and technically feasible. and subsequently in the concrete and aggregates business (previous year: 269,9 L/t cement). lines. Implementation of water management plans at all sites – Development of initial individual water management plans located in water scarcity areas. for cement plants. Measuring emissions of heavy metals, volatile organic Continuous emission measurements. As at 2019: Ongoing 84 compounds (VOC), and dioxins/furans at all locations. – 106 kilns report on mercury emissions (previous year: 112); the decline is due to the decommissioning of kilns, and biennial measurement cycles in some countries. – 108 kilns report on dioxins/furans (previous year: 108). Lowering emissions per tonne of clinker (reference year: 2008): Continuous optimisation and modernisation of processes As at 2019: 2030 51, 84 – Dust: by 80% (best available technology, or BAT) in the cement plants. – Dust: -80% – Nitrogen oxides: by 40% – Nitrogen oxides: -20% – Sulphur oxides: by 40% – Sulphur oxides: -28% Subsequent use and biodiversity management Restoration plans for 100% of the active quarries for cement Continuous expansion of restoration plans. As at 2019: 2030 17, 48, and aggregates (in Europe, Africa, and Asia). – In the cement business line: 88% (previous year: 88%) 85 – In the aggregates business line: 79% (previous year: 76%) Implementation of biodiversity management plans at 100% Development of training documentation and manuals; As at 2019: 2030 48, 85 of quarries in areas with a high biological value (in Europe, provision of corresponding training on site. Continuous – In the cement business line: 47% (previous year: 47%) Africa, and Asia). expansion of biodiversity management plans. – In the aggregates business line: 49% (previous year: 41%) Employees & Employment Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Reduction of accident frequency and the accident severity Further intensification of proactive measures such as the As at 2019: Ongoing 59/60, indicator to zero for Group employees. performance and analysis of safety conversations, the – Accident frequency rate: 1.5 (previous year: 1.7) 62/63 reporting of near-accidents with the corresponding measures, – Accident severity indicator: 80 (previous year: 70) 88 continuation of the “Clean site/ Safe site” initiative, updating Occupational safety topics accounted for around 48% of all of Group standards. training hours at HeidelbergCement, corresponding to almost 12.7 hours per employee. Reduction of the number of fatalities to zero for Group Further intensification of proactive measures such as the As at 2019: Ongoing 59/60, employees. performance and analysis of safety conversations, the – Fatality rate: 0.7 (previous year: 0.4) 62/63 reporting of near-accidents with the corresponding measures, 88 continuation of the “Clean site/ Safe site” initiative, updating of Group standards. Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 77 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & Employment Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Implementation of the WASH Pledge of the World Business Performing a yearly self-assessment to monitor the success Implementation of the annual self-assessment regarding 2021 61 Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). of the implementation, and publication of the results. the fulfilment of the requirements with an extended coverAspects monitored include compliance with local and national age of 40 countries in Africa, Europe, Asia and Australia regulations and laws, the supply of drinking water to the (20 countries in the previous year). Evaluation of the results: workplace, and access to sanitation and hygiene at the Requirements in the areas of access to water and sanitary workplace. facilities over 90% fulfilled, requirements in the area of hygiene over 85% fulfilled. Preparation of initial action plans for sites with potential for improvement. Share of women in management positions (first level) in Targeted support of women by means of appropriate manAs at 2019: 2022 66/67, Germany: 15%. agement programmes and programmes for the advancement – Share of women in management positions in Germany: 10% 87 Share of women in management positions (second level) in of future executives. at first management level, 14% at second management level Germany: 15%. – Share of women in programmes for the advancement of future executives in Germany: 31.2% Sustainable talent management. Key positions are filled internally with top-class candidates As at 2019: Ongoing 63-65 worldwide. – 29% of all positions are filled internally (worldwide) – 24% of all positions within Group functions at the headquarters are filled internally Promoting diversity in the workforce. Promoting an international composition of the workforce As at 2019: Ongoing 65/66 at Group headquarters, bringing together different cultures, – 227 international employees from 52 countries at Group talents, and experiences, and reflecting the company’s presheadquarters (of a total of 669 employees) ence on international markets. Society & Corporate Responsibility Target Measures Achieved in 2019 Deadline Status Page Ensuring transparent communication with stakeholders. Strengthening of contact with stakeholders and intensification Conducting numerous different kinds of dialogues with Ongoing 18, 70, of dialogue on both local and Group levels. Development of the stakeholders at national level. Expansion of the auditing 72 guidelines for country organisations to ensure structured programme of Group Internal Audit in the area of CSR. involvement of local players. Support for the economic and social development of Provision of in-kind and monetary donations for non-profit Strengthening of the structure in the area of CSR in different Ongoing 70–73 neighbouring communities. organisations as well as the development of strategic “shared countries. Development of several internal guidelines to value” projects. Development and promotion of corporate improve CSR management. Implementation of numerous volunteering. projects to support the local communities. Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved New target 78 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Appendix 80 Key figures 89 About this report 90 GRI content index 96 Imprint Image: Mining aggregates at our site in Eagle Quarry/Ohio, USA. 79 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Key figures Strategy & management 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Revenue/result Total Group revenue 17,266 18,075 18,851 € million Result from current operations before depreciation and amortisation (RCOBD) 2) 3,297 3,100 3,580 € million Result from current operations (RCO) 2) 2,188 2,010 2,186 € million Profit for the financial year 1,058 1,286 1,242 € million Group share of profit 918 1,143 1,091 € million Dividend per share 1.90 2.10 0.60 € Earnings per share 4.62 5.76 5.50 € Investments in tangible fixed assets Including maintenance, optimisation, and environmental protection measures 1,035 1,061 1,183 € million Depreciation and amortisation 1,109 1,090 1,394 € million Balance sheet Equity (including non-controlling interests) 15,987 16,822 18,504 € million Balance sheet total 34,558 35,783 38,589 € million Net debt 3) 8,695 8,323 8,410 € million Material costs and other operating expenses 6,782 7,478 7,586 € million Expenditure on research and technology 141.0 145.7 134.0 € million Group sales Cement and clinker: – Western and Southern Europe 28.9 30.8 29.9 million t – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 25.9 25.6 23.9 million t – North America 16.4 16.2 16.1 million t – Asia-Pacific 34.7 36.9 35.8 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 19.0 19.7 19.5 million t – Total 125.7 130.0 125.9 million t Aggregates: – Western and Southern Europe 78.5 81.3 83.5 million t – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 52.3 51.3 48.2 million t – North America 120.8 123.4 128.1 million t – Asia-Pacific 41.5 43.4 39.8 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 12.4 10.1 8.9 million t – Total 305.3 309.4 308.3 million t 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 2) 2018 amount was restated, see Annual Report 2019, page 119 f. 3) 2018 amount was restated due to adjusted net debt definition. 80 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Strategy & management 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Group sales Ready-mixed concrete: – Western and Southern Europe 17.3 17.5 18.4 million m3 – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 6.9 7.0 6.8 million m3 – North America 6.8 7.1 7.7 million m3 – Asia-Pacific 10.6 11.6 12.0 million m3 – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 5.1 5.3 5.3 million m3 – Total 47.2 49.0 50.7 million m3 Asphalt: – Western and Southern Europe 3.3 3.6 3.6 million t – North America 4.0 4.1 5.0 million t – Asia-Pacific 1.8 2.1 2.3 million t – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 0.6 0.5 0.4 million t – Total 9.6 10.3 11.3 million t Cement type portfolio – Ordinary Portland cement 40.0 39.0 37.6 % – – Limestone cement 17.7 18.0 18.1 % – – Pozzolana/fly ash cement 7.5 9.2 8.3 % – – Slag cement 13.4 12.1 12.2 % – – Multi-component cement 18.4 18.5 20.1 % – – Oilwell/white cement 0.7 0.6 0.5 % – – Masonry cement/special binder 0.9 0.8 1.6 % – – Ground granulated blast furnace slag 1.4 1.7 1.7 % – Share of integrated cement plants with a certified environmental management system 89.3 96.0 93.5 % – Production facilities in which independent – Cement 68 71 68 % – environmental audits have been carried – Aggregates 68 83 78 % – out within the last five years 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 81 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Product & innovation 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Sustainable construction Sales of recycled aggregates – 3.4 2.2 million t – Membership of Green Building Councils and Sustainable Infrastructure Councils 11 12 13 number – Revenue from sustainable products Share of revenue – 11.4 2) 11.4 3) % Production & supply chain 1990 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Reduction in CO2 emissions Cement business line: – Absolute gross CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 83.2 73.8 75.7 72.6 million t – Absolute net CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 81.6 69.9 71.7 68.4 million t – Specific gross CO2 emissions per tonne of cementitious material (Scope 1) 759.5 636.1 627.6 621.8 kg CO2/t – Specific net CO2 emissions per tonne of cementitious material (Scope 1) 751.7 607.6 598.9 589.8 kg CO2/t – Indirect CO2 emissions 7.8 4.7 4.2 4,4 million t Aggregates business line: – Absolute CO2 emissions from fuels (Scope 1) – – – 0.48 million t – – Absolute CO2 emissions from purchased electricity (Scope 2) – – – 0.30 million t – – Specific CO2 emissions from fuels (Scope 1) – – – 1.63 kg CO2/t – – Specific CO2 emissions from purchased electricity (Scope 2) – – – 1.02 kg CO2/t – All business lines: – CO2 emissions from purchased goods and services (Scope 3) – – – 9.42 million t – CO2 emissions from purchased fuels (Scope 3) – – – 3.89 million t – CO2 emissions from upstream and downstream transportation and distribution (Scope 3) – – – 9.40 million t 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 2) Collected in the following countries: DEU, BEL, NLD, POL, CZE, NOR, SWE. 3) Collected in the following countries: DEU, BEL, NLD, POL, CZE, NOR, SWE, IDN, FRA, CAN. Value for 2019 on a like-for-like basis: 12.19%. 82 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & supply chain 1990 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Energy/raw materials Absolute energy consumption: – Cement 454,393 367,950 376,882 363,607 TJ – whereof clinker production 389,111 312,512 319,705 307,996 TJ – Aggregates n.a. 8,109 9,203 9,281 TJ – Specific energy consumption: – Cement 4,186 3,200 3,150 3,136 MJ/t – whereof clinker production 4,363 3,602 3,566 3,573 MJ/t – Aggregates n.a. 31.0 32.1 31.6 MJ/t – Fuel mix for clinker production: – Hard coal 52.4 47.7 46.8 44.2 % – Lignite 0.0 2.3 2.1 1.7 % – Petroleum coke 8.7 19.7 18.3 19.6 % – Natural gas 17.0 7.3 8.2 9.6 % – Light fuel oil 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.2 % – Heavy fuel oil 16.2 1.5 2.1 0.4 % – Other fossil fuels 2.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 % – Alternative fossil fuels 2.8 13.2 13.5 14.8 % – Biomass 0.2 7.9 8.5 9.1 % – Proportion of biomass in mix of alternative fuels 6.3 37.4 38.7 38.1 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 83 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & supply chain 1990 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Energy/raw materials Alternative fuel mix for clinker production: – RDF 1.6 25.4 26.8 25.7 % – Waste oil 29.0 3.4 3.2 3.6 % – Used tyres 17.1 11.8 12.1 9.8 % – Solvents 30.8 7.6 6.0 6.0 % – Dried sewage sludge 0.0 2.1 2.0 1.7 % – Meat and bone meal 0.0 4.2 3.8 3.4 % – Agricultural waste and waste wood 0.0 3.7 6.5 6.0 % – Other biomass 6.3 27.5 26.4 26.9 % – Other alternative fuels 15.1 14.5 13.2 16.8 % Proportion of alternative fuels (incl. biomass) 3.0 21.0 22.0 24.0 % Clinker content in cementitious material 82.0 75.4 74.8 74.5 % Proportion of alternative raw materials: – Clinker n.a. 2.7 3.1 2.9 % – Cement n.a. 11.1 11.3 11.3 % 2008 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Emissions Absolute NOX emissions 84,571 119,642 114,514 110,079 t Specific NOX emissions 1,585 1,373 1,263 1,273 g/t clinker Absolute SOX emissions 27,007 31,989 31,858 31,639 t Specific SOX emissions 506 367 351 366 g/t clinker Absolute dust emissions 17,043 7,862 7,272 5,454 t Specific dust emissions 319 90 80 63 g/t clinker Proportion of clinker produced in kilns with continuous or discontinuous measurement of all emissions 65 87 83 78 % Proportion of clinker produced in kilns with continuous measurement of dust, NOX, and SOX emissions 87 88 90 87 % Mercury: – Specific emissions n.a. 0.034 0.030 0.038 g/t clinker – Number of kilns reporting n.a. 107 112 106 – Dioxins and furans: – Specific emissions n.a. 0.059 0.035 0.056 µg TEQ/t clinker – Number of kilns reporting n.a. 111 108 108 – 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 84 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Production & supply chain 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Biodiversity and conservation of resources Proportion of quarries in areas with a high biological value, with biodiversity management plan: – Cement 43 47 47 % – – Aggregates 38 41 49 % – Proportion of active quarries with a restoration plan: – Cement 80 88 88 % – – Aggregates – 76 79 % – Water management (cement) Total water withdrawal 60.4 65.4 66.8 million m3 By source: – Surface water 29.3 33.6 34.7 million m3 – Groundwater 9.7 9.5 12.1 million m3 – Seawater 2.3 3.2 3.5 million m3 – Public/private water supply 5.2 5.5 5.4 million m3 – External wastewater 0.1 0.0 0.0 million m3 – Quarry water 9.4 9.4 9.5 million m3 – Collected rainwater 4.5 4.1 1.6 million m3 Total water discharge/wastewater 25.2 33.1 29.9 million m3 By place of discharge: – Surface water 21.2 27.7 24.6 million m3 – Groundwater 1.0 0.0 0.1 million m3 – Seawater 2.7 1.2 3.9 million m3 – External water treatment systems 0.7 1.2 0.8 million m3 – Other discharge area 0.6 0.6 0.6 million m3 Water consumption (water withdrawal minus wastewater discharge) 35.2 32.2 36.9 million m3 Quarry water not used 64.2 57.1 62.3 million m3 – Specific water withdrawal for clinker 692.8 721.2 630.2 L/t Specific water withdrawal for cement 526.2 547.8 484.0 L/t Specific water consumption for clinker 403.5 355.4 348.1 L/t Specific water consumption for cement 306.5 269.9 267.3 L/t 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 85 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Employees and employment Number of employees as at 31 December: – Western and Southern Europe 15,497 15,903 15,608 employees – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 13,531 12,515 11,251 employees – North America 8,726 8,750 9,047 employees – Asia-Pacific 14,039 14,086 13,190 employees – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 6,856 6,214 5,498 employees – Group Services 405 472 454 employees – Total 59,054 57,939 55,047 employees Employee turnover: – Western and Southern Europe 13 14 12 % – – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 15 14 12 % – – North America 18 20 20 % – – Asia-Pacific 11 9 9 % – – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 13 5 5 % – – Total 13 13 11 % – Personnel costs and social benefits: – Wages, salaries, social security costs 2,801.8 2,816.0 2,975.1 € million – Costs of retirement benefits 153.3 176.4 179.2 € million – Other personnel costs 34.6 39.3 33.1 € million – Total 2,989.7 3,031.7 3,187.4 € million Proportion of part-time employees (Group) 2.5 2.5 2.3 % – Proportion of part-time employees (HeidelbergCement AG) 11.1 11.6 11.3 % Age structure (Group): – Younger than 30 12 12 11.7 % – 30–49 52 54 51.8 % – 50 and older 36 34 36.5 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 86 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Employees and employment Share of female employees (Group) 13 13 13 % Share of female employees in top management positions (Group) 10 10 9.8 % Share of female employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives (Group) 22 22 17.8 % – Share of female employees (Germany) 16 15 15.3 % Share of female employees in top management positions (Germany) 9 9 9.1 % Share of female employees N-1 (Germany) 11 12 10.3 % Share of female employees N-2 (Germany) 11 13 13.6 % Share of female employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives (Group) 36 26 31.2 % Share of local managers in senior management positions (Group) 74 79 79.7 % Proportion of disabled employees: – Germany 4.3 4.1 4.4 % – – HeidelbergCement AG 4.4 4.8 4.3 % – Apprenticeships and employee training Employees in programmes for the advancement of future executives 719 474 490 individuals Training hours per employee 26 28 26.3 hours – Structure of training hours: – Management training 5 4 6.8 % – Soft skills training 4 3 3.4 % – Specialist training 28 23 27.6 % – Occupational safety training 50 61 48.2 % – Language courses 4 3 7.8 % – Other 9 5 6.1 % Percentage of trainees in Germany 5 4 4.1 % Percentage of trainees retained as permanent employees in Germany 82 85 90 % 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 87 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Employees & employment 2017 2018 2019 Unit Assurance 1) Occupational health and safety Accident frequency 2) 1.9 1.7 1.5 Accident frequency, cement business line 1.4 1.0 1.1 Accident severity indicator 3) 90 70 80 Accident severity indicator, cement business line 69 39 62 Fatality rate 4) 0.4 0.4 0.7 Fatality rate, cement business line 0.8 0.4 0.8 Number of fatalities: – Group employees 2 2 4 individuals – Employees of other companies 9 8 10 individuals – Third parties 3 19 11 individuals – thereof outside our plants 2 19 10 individuals Accident frequency by region: – Western and Southern Europe 3.2 2.1 2.6 – – Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia 2.3 2.2 1.7 – – North America 1.7 1.6 1.2 – – Asia-Pacific 1.1 1.2 1.0 – – Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin 0.9 1.4 0.6 – Occupational illness rate 5) 0.94 0.91 1.16 – Illness rate 6) 1.95 1.90 1.11 – Proportion of employees represented by H&S committees 98.4 99.8 99.9 – Proportion of employees represented by H&S committees with trade union representation 7) 93.0 91.1 94.3 – 1) External assurance of the key figures for 2019 within the framework of the Annual Report 2019 or in line with our obligation with regard to the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). According to the GCCA Sustainability Framework, baseline/historical data must be adjusted following acquisitions or divestments. 2) Number of accidents involving Group employees with at least one lost working day per 1,000,000 hours worked. 3) Number of working days lost due to accidents involving Group employees per 1,000,000 hours worked. 4) Number of fatalities of Group employees per 10,000 Group employees. 5) Number of officially recognised occupational illnesses suffered by Group employees per 1,000,000 hours worked. 6) Proportion of working hours lost due to illness relative to the total number of working hours (excluding Egypt, Morocco, North America, and United Kingdom, as the general illness hours are not recorded there). 7) The lower proportion is due to the lack of appropriate trade unions in several countries. 88 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility About this report GRI 102-45, 102-46 HeidelbergCement is publishing a Group Sustainability Report for the eleventh time. Some of the key figures on environmental protection and occupational safety from the In this publication, we explain how the company is fulfilling its economic, cement business line were once again subject to an independent limited assurance and environmental, and social responsibilities and report on the progress we have made in are marked as such in this report. As a member of the GCCA, we are required to have 2019. The report is aimed at our employees, investors and analysts, and business these key figures reviewed. The results of this audit can be found on our website: partners as well as political players and non-governmental organisations. https://www.heidelbergcement.com/en/sustainability-report Report content and organisation Data collection This Sustainability Report has been prepared according to the GRI Standards of Methods and systems that have been defined across the Group are used to collect data the internationally recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report has been at our business locations. Internal reporting and consolidation of the data take place via created in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. At the same time, it is centralised electronic KPI data management systems at the Group; here, the key figures our annual progress report (Communication on Progress) on the status of the are checked for completeness and credibility. Uniform Group-wide definitions of all the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). relevant key figures, as well as process guidelines for the reporting processes, are available GRI content index p. 90 on the intranet. When deciding on the most important sustainability themes for the articles in our report, Information about the editing process we were guided by the GRI principles (materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability This Sustainability Report is published in German and English. The editorial deadline was context, completeness). We continuously refine our reporting processes in line with these 10 June 2020. The previous Sustainability Report was published in July 2019. In line with standards. this annual reporting cycle, the next report will be published in 2021. Materiality analysis p. 21, 22 Disclaimer of liability Precise definition and methodology of the report We have compiled the information and key figures contained in this report with extreme This Sustainability Report for 2019 deals with the 2019 financial year, which runs from care. All of the contents of this report were examined by the employees responsible for 1 January to 31 December. The key facts and figures included in this report correspond this task. However, we cannot completely exclude the possibility that this report includes to those in the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report of erroneous information. The report and the information contained in it do not constitute HeidelbergCement’s Annual Report 2019. This also applies to the facts and figures cona test of compliance with the current laws, legal regulations, or recognised sustainability cerning our employees. In 2016, we adjusted the consolidation of the key environmental practices in the industry. figures to the international accounting standards. In accordance with the revenue consolidation process, joint ventures are not taken into account, even retrospectively. We report our key figures for environmental performance and occupational safety according to the guidelines of the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). The guidelines in their original wording: http://bit.ly/GCCAGuidelines 89 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI content index The Sustainability Report 2019 was available to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the implementation of the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. The correct positioning of the materiality disclosures (102-40 to 102-49) in the report was confirmed by the GRI Services team. GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organisational profile GRI 102-1: Name of the organisation 96 GRI 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 8/9 GRI 102-3: Location of headquarters 56 GRI 102-4: Location of operations 6, 26 GRI 102-5: Ownership and legal form AR 2019 p.17 GRI 102-6: Markets served 6, 8/9 GRI 102-7: Scale of the organisation 7, 25/26, 58 GRI 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 58, 86/87 6 GRI 102-9: Supply chain 8/9, 53 GRI 102-10: Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain – In the reporting year, there were no significant changes. GRI 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 28 GRI 102-12: External initiatives 2/3, 19/20, 42–44 GRI 102-13: Membership of associations 18/19 Strategy GRI 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 2/3 1–10 GRI 102-15: Key impact, risks, and opportunities 12–14, 16/17, 22, AR 2019 p. 63 ff Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 13, 24/25, 57 10 GRI 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 26–28 10 90 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle Governance GRI 102-18: Governance structure 14, 16, AR 2019 p. 93 ff GRI 102-19: Delegating authority 14, 16 GRI 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 14, 16, 41, 59/60 GRI 102-21: Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 18–20 GRI 102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees AR 2019 p. 93/94 GRI 102-23: Chair of the highest governance body AR 2019 p. 93/94 GRI 102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 2019 p. 93 GRI 102-25: Conflicts of interest AR 2019 p. 11/12, 167 GRI 102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 14, 16, AR 2019 p. 47 ff GRI 102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body 11, 14, 16 GRI 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 16/17, 21 GRI 102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 28 GRI 102-31: Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 41, AR 2019 p. 47 ff GRI 102-33: Communicating critical concerns AR 2019 p. 47 ff GRI 102-35: Remuneration policies AR 2019 p. 79 ff, 92 GRI 102-36: Process for determining remuneration AR 2019 p. 79 ff Stakeholder GRI 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 18/19, 31, 70 engagement GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining groups 58 3 GRI 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18/19 GRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 18–20 GRI 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 21/22 Reporting GRI 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 89, AR 2019 p. 120 practice GRI 102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries 21, 89 GRI 102-47: List of material topics 22 GRI 102-48: Restatements of information – In the reporting year, the information was not restated. GRI 102-49: Changes in reporting – In the reporting year, there were no changes in reporting. GRI 102-50: Reporting period 89 GRI 102-51: Date of most recent report 89 GRI 102-52: Reporting cycle 89 GRI 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 96 GRI 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 89 GRI 102-55: GRI content index 90 GRI 102-56: External assurance 89 91 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle Material topics GRI 201: Economic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 13 7 performance 2016 GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 7, 25/26, 59, 80 GRI 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 17, 68/69 7 climate change GRI 201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 59, AR 2019 p. 100, 112/113 GRI 201-4: Financial assistance received from government 44/45 GRI 202: Market GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 65/66 6 presence 2016 GRI 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 66 6 GRI 203: Indirect economic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 22, 69/70 impacts 2016 GRI 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 22, 70 GRI 204: Procurement GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25/26 practices 2016 GRI 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 26 GRI 205: AntiGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25/26 10 corruption 2016 GRI 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption AR 2019 p. 56 10 GRI 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 27 We do not currently report on trained em10 and procedures ployees by region and employee category because the data is not available. We plan to introduce a data collection process and report on this data in the future. GRI 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 28 10 GRI 206: Anti-competitive GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25/26 behaviour 2016 GRI 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and 28, AR 2019 p. 72 In the reporting year, there were no new legal monopoly practices proceedings for anti-competitive behavior, cartels or monopolies. GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 32/33 7–9 GRI 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 34/35 We do not report on the weight or volume 7, 8 of the materials used, as this information is subject to confidentiality. This information is relevant to competition. We report on sales. GRI 301-2: Recycled input materials used 35, 37/38 7, 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 35/36 7–9 GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 39, 83/84 7, 8 GRI 302-3: Energy intensity 83 8 GRI 302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 37, 47 7–9 92 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 41, 51–53 7, 8 GRI 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 52, 85 7, 8 GRI 303-3: Water withdrawal 52/53, 85 8 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 48/49 8 GRI 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 48/49, 85 We do not report on the details for each 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas extraction site, as this is not possible due to the large number of extraction sites involved. GRI 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 48/49 8 GRI 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 48–50 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12–14, 41–43 7–9 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42, 84 7, 8 GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42, 84 7, 8 GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 84 8 GRI 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 51 7, 8 GRI 306: Effluents and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 41 8 waste 2016 GRI 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination 85 8 GRI 307: Environmental GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25, 41 8 compliance 2016 GRI 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 41 8 GRI 308: Supplier environGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 54 8 mental assessment 2016 GRI 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 54 8 GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 57/58 6 GRI 401-1: New employees hires and employee turnover 58, 86 We do not report data on new hires and 6 employee turnover by gender and age group because the data is not available and not material to us. GRI 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 58/59 temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labour/ GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 57/58 3 management relations 2016 GRI 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 58 3 93 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 403: Occupational GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 59/60 1, 6 health and safety 2016 GRI 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health 88 and safety committees GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 62, 88 We do not report the information broken absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities down by gender and region as this information is subject to confidentiality. It may not be recorded in part for reasons of privacy. GRI 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 62/63 GRI 404: Training and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 63/64 6 education 2016 GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 63/64, 87 We do not report average training hours 6 by gender and employee category because the data is not available. We plan to introduce a data collection process and report this data in the future. GRI 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 63 6 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 65/66 1, 6 equal opportunity 2016 GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 66/67, 87, AR 2019 p. 93/94 6 GRI 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men – Our Code of Business Conduct sets out 6 fair working conditions for all employees. Naturally, this also includes equal pay for women and men. GRI 406: NonGRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25–27, 57, 65/66 6 discrimination 2016 GRI 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 28 6 GRI 407: Freedom of GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25–27, 54, 58/59 2, 3 association and collective GRI 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 27, 54 2, 3 bargaining 2016 collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labour 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25–27, 54, 57 2, 5 GRI 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 27, 54 2, 5 GRI 409: Forced or GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25–27, 54, 57 2, 4 compulsory labour 2016 GRI 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 27, 54 2, 4 compulsory labour 94 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility GRI standard Page Comments UN GC principle GRI 412: Human rights GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 25, 27, 57 1, 2 assessment 2016 GRI 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 24, 27 2 assessments GRI 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 27 GRI 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 54 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12, 70, 72 1 communities 2016 GRI 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 71–73 1 development programs GRI 414: Supplier social GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25, 27, 54 2 assessment 2016 GRI 414-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 27, 54 2 GRI 416: Customer GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 31 health and safety 2016 GRI 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories – We sell standardised products whose effects have been analysed in detail. Specific safety data sheets are required for all these products and are made available to customers. GRI 418: Customer GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25, 31 privacy 2016 GRI 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and – We are not aware of any justified complaints losses of customer data regarding violations of the protection or loss of customer data. GRI 419: Socioeconomic GRI 103: Management approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25–27 compliance 2016 GRI 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 28 95 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility Company Strategy & Business & Product & Production & Employees & Society & Corporate Targets Appendix Portrait Management Compliance Innovation Supply Chain Employment Responsibility Imprint Copyright © 2020 Picture credits HeidelbergCement AG HeidelbergCement’s photographic archive; Berliner Straße 6 HeidelbergCement AG / Steffen Fuchs, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany Heidelberg, Germany: page 1; Matthias Müller, Ilvesheim, Germany: page 2; HeidelbergEditorial deadline Cement AG / Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, 10 June 2020 Germany: page 5; Ceskomoravsky cement / Petr Zikmund: page 10; United Nations Responsible on behalf of the publisher Department of Global Communications: Christoph Beumelburg, page 12; Attila Bartha, Hungary: page 13; Director Group Communication and Hans Sipma Photography, Vancouver, Canada: Investor Relations S.18; HeidelbergCement AG / Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, Germany: page 19; HeidelbergKatharina Plonsker, Cement AG / Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, Project Management Sustainability Report Germany: page 23; Attila Bartha, Ungarn: page 24; Peri GmbH (3D Printing in action Contact video): page 29; Fabio Toschi, Bergamo, Italy: Phone: +49 (0) 6221 481-13227 page 30; HeidelbergCement AG / Steffen Fuchs, Fax: +49 (0) 6221 481-13217 Heidelberg, Germany: page 32; Daniele E-mail: sustainability@heidelbergcement.com Domenicali, Bologna, Italy: page 33; Heidelbergwww.heidelbergcement.com Cement AG / Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, Germany: page 36; Pete Lacker, Dallas, USA: Concept and graphic realisation page 39; HeidelbergCement AG / Steffen Fuchs, akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh Heidelberg, Germany: page 40; Paul Poels TEAMKOM Kommunikation+Design fotografien, Meerlo, Netherlands: page 43; JT Cement: page 46; HeidelbergCement AG / Translation Steffen Fuchs, Heidelberg, Germany: page 52; Target Languages GmbH Pete Lacker, Dallas, USA: page 59; Yvonne Davies, UK: page 64 Pictograms: Fotolia, rotwerk visuelle kommunikation (p. 8 and 9) This Sustainability Report is also available in a German-language edition. 96 HeidelbergCement I Sustainability Report 2019 www.heidelbergcement.com/responsibility
