ESG Initiatives Nippon Chemi-Con incorporates ESG (environment, social, governance) into our corporate strategies to pursue sustainable growth. We outline activity goals and promote company-wide participation. Promote business activities focused on global E environment Sustainable Promote human resource development and S work/life balance corporate G Ensure corporate governance, corporate ethics, growth and transparency of management ESG Activities (Major activities/goals for FY2019) Core issues / Materiality FY2019 major activities and goals Related pages Global warming prevention and energy conservation activities P.37 P.40 Appropriate management of chemical substances used by factories P.37 Management of chemical substances contained in the products (environmentally conscious products) P.10 P.40 E Effective use of resources and waste reduction, promotion of 3Rs P.38 P.40 Global environment Continuous improvements based on environment management system (ISO14001) Website CSR/Environment conservation Biodiversity conservation activities P.38 Contributions to local society P.39 Compliance with environmental laws P.10 Website CSR/Environment Development of energy-efficient products Website CSR/Environment Reform HR system in 2020 HR/benefits Continue welcome back program (rehiring program) Website Careers Reduce overtime to average 29 hours per worker per month P.30 Worker health and Increase paid leave usage rate and childcare leave usage rate to 70% and higher P.30 safety Continue mandatory rest between shifts Continued implementation of healthy company activities P.30 Conduct position-specific training (15 times/year) P.29 Human resource Continue to offer Japan training program for overseas local workers P.29 S development Continue overseas assignments via the global human resources development program (application based) P.29 Continue implementing measures to maintain 5-year turnover rate of 12% or less for young employees Proactive hiring of foreign students studying in Japan P.29 Increase rate of hiring for disabled workers to 2.5% or higher by 2020 P.29 Diversity Increase rate of female hiring to 30% or higher for technical and manufacturing positions and P.29 40% or higher for sales and administrative positions Increase number of female managers by 50% by 2020 P.29 Provide support such as vaccines and clothing to developing nations P.28 Social welfare Support wheelchair purchases P.28 Next-generation Adoption of internship system P.29 development Dispatch instructors for next-generation human resource development conducted by industry organizations Increased participation in management by outside officers and creation of environment that promotes engagement P.31 P.35 Reflect results of internal controls efficacy evaluations on management Corporate Compliance with basic policy on corporate governance governance Constructive communication with shareholders (continue investor visits) G Risk management Hold IR conferences (twice) Regular BCP validation, reviews (head office, factories) Reinforce information leak prevention (data center, thin client, internal audits, etc.) P.36 P.33 Continued systematic implementation of compliance education P.32 Compliance Continued participation in UN Global Compact (participating since 2012) P.28 Continue internal audits related to competition laws, export management, ethics, labor, and health and safety Website CSR/Environment https://www.chemi-con.co.jp/e/env/index.html Website Careers https://www.chemi-con.co.jp/comeback.html CSR Management Basic CSR Policy In 2003, the Nippon Chemi-Con Group released the The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Nippon Chemi-Con Group Charter of Corporate 1 Human Principle 1  Businesses should support and respect Behavior as an internal and external declaration of our Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed commitment to business activities that ensure our human rights; and position as a corporation that contributes to society Principle 2  make sure that they are not complicit in through fair and transparent business activities. human rights abuses. Based on the spirit of this Charter of Corporate Principle 3  Businesses should uphold the freedom of 2 Labour Behavior, the Nippon Chemi-Con Group Business association and the effective recognition of Conduct Guidelines outline the character that every the right to collective bargaining; executive and employee of the Nippon Chemi-Con Principle 4  the elimination of all forms of forced and Group must apply to our daily corporate activities. As a compulsory labour; company that provides products and services capable Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and of contributing to the lifestyles of people around the Principle 6  the elimination of discrimination in world, we strive for harmony with international society respect of employment and occupation. while maintaining our commitment to the local community and stakeholders. We are committed to 3 Environment Principle 7  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental compliance with the laws and regulations of each challenges; country and practice honest business activities based on sound corporate ethics and a strong awareness of Principle 8  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and our position as a corporate citizen. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Positioning of CSR Activities The Nippon Chemi-Con Group engages in CSR 4 A ntiPrinciple 10 Businesses should work against activities to pursue not only profits, but also to Corruption corruption in all its forms, including contribute widely to society by fulfilling our corporate extortion and bribery. social responsibility. We maintain an awareness of the impact and risks related to Nippon Chemi-Con Group 1 2 activities. To ensure stable growth, we prioritize the Human Labour non-financial aspects of CSR and engage in CSR Rights activities to promote high rates of satisfaction among both employees and customers, and to maintain our position as a company that is trusted by society. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group positions CSR activities as 3 4 part of our management strategy for reducing business Environment Antirisks and achieving sustainable growth. Corruption CSR Promotion System SDGs The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established a CSR promotion system within the Nippon Chemi-Con We aim to contribute to the sustainable development Administration Department to work with each goals (SDGs) outlined in the 2030 Agenda for department and factory on specific activities. We go Sustainable Development adopted at the September beyond simple corporate activities. For example, in the 2015 UN Summit. Through the outside-in approach area of social contributions, we collaborate with labor (method of establishing corporate goals based on unions on activities such as purchasing wheelchairs societal needs and social issues outside the company), through soda can pull tab collections, providing we will work to proactively create business vaccinations to developing countries through PET bottle opportunities focused on resolving social issues. cap collection, and donating clothing to developing countries. Participation in UN Global Compact On January 26, 2012, the Nippon Chemi-Con Group announced our support for and participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is comprised of 10 universal principles related to four areas: human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group is working to incorporate the 10 principles of the UNGC into our daily business activities in order to achieve a high level of corporate social responsibility and meeting the expectations of all our stakeholders. Human Resources Strategy / Healthy Company Diversity Internships From winter 2018, we began offering internships as part of Aiming to diversify management by promoting global HR our practical training program for students. The first development and utilization of females in the workplace internship program was held over a course of five days with a product development department (Tokyo) welcoming Amid continuing globalization, overseas production three interns and a basic research department (Kanagawa) accounts for approximately 66% of production (in volume) hosting two interns. We plan to offer internships regularly at Nippon Chemi-Con and of our approximately 7,000 and hope to promote familiarity with Nippon Chemi-Con by employees, about 63% are outside Japan. Regardless of offering various experiences such as dismantling and age, gender, or nationality, we emphasize individuality analyzing electronic components and designing circuits. among our diverse human resources. We believe that the new ideas created as a result of this diversity will contribute Nippon Chemi-Con Education Policy to the creation of technology that benefits both the In our 8th medium-term management plan, we outline environment and people. developing the human resources for 10 years ahead as Also, Nippon Chemi-Con faces the reality that women only one of our core strategies. What is happening on the global represent 2.0% of employees in management positions. To stage? What is our position and what must we study? To address this and the Women’s Workplace Utilization achieve continuous innovation, we ensure that all our Promotion Act enacted in April 2016, we drafted a plan to employees understand the following education policy. (1) increase the number of women in management positions by 50% by 2020 and, (2) increase the percentage Nippon Chemi-Con Group Education Policy of female hires to 30% and higher for technical and Requirements of a Nippon Chemi-Con Group employee common to both domestic and international offices manufacturing positions, and 40% and higher for sales and 1. Employees who can take on increasingly difficult administrative positions. We will continue to promote challenges various initiatives aimed at promoting the utilization of 2. Employees with high communication skills women in the workplace. 3. Employees who can independently think and act from a global perspective Composition of employees About Nippon Chemi-Con Group Education and Training System At Nippon Chemi-Con, we have established various Japan 37% Overseas 63% education systems of tiered training for personnel development, including position-based training, distance learning (Nippon Chemi-Con Business School), and OJT. Utilization of Foreign Students in Japan Tiered training is a system of curriculum that serves as the foundation for long-term personnel development. Our main Nippon Chemi-Con practices the hiring of foreign students office sponsors 15 tiered training sessions where we studying in Japan. Amid continuing globalization, our belief provide education on the skills required for each tier. In is that the hiring of human resources who live in Japan and 2016, we established an additional system for employees have an understanding of Japanese culture is vital. Since who have been with the company for five years. We are 2012, we have aggressively recruited foreign students in focused on providing training that is in line with the needs Japan. We newly hired two foreign students in this fiscal of society and the company. Since 2017 we also have year. As of April 2019, we have 22 such personnel on staff conducted OJT leader training at domestic affiliate who are involved in a variety of roles in the company. companies. We aim to equip new hires with the ability to quickly engage in and contribute to business operations. This training will also help develop the basic management skills of supervisors in charge of education and training. Additionally, our domestic production division conducts global leadership training for select young employees. This training covers themes that transcend position and office and provide education that cannot be gained through tier-based training. Promoting the Hiring of Persons with Disabilities With the goal of increasing employee skill levels at our Nippon Chemi-Con proactively conducts the hiring of overseas affiliates, since 2006 we have selected employees persons with disabilities. Not only does this include staff on from overseas offices to participate in training conducted in site in our various factories and offices, but we also work to Japan. Since then, already over 150 overseas employees allow telecommuting to ensure a comfortable working have participated. In fiscal 2018, 26 overseas employees environment for persons with disabilities. We are aiming for participated from Taiwan, Indonesia and Malaysia. Among persons with disabilities to represent at least 2.5% of hiring those who have completed the training are numerous by 2020. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group will continue employees who are already working as managers working to expand our overall hiring and provide work overseas. We also started an overseas training program in opportunities for persons with disabilities. FY2018. Through this program, employees in Japan selected through an open enrollment system are sent for training at an overseas affiliate. Four employees participated during the initial year of the program, all of company. Also, employees who complete coursework are whom completed the three-month training. Moving forward, allotted “career points,” which are a parameter in the we will continue striving to develop human resources evaluation of promotions and raises. Linking this education capable of thinking, deciding, and acting based on a global system to our HR system helps promote self-improvement. perspective and who are able to lead a team comprised of a diverse range of individuals towards goal achievement. Furthermore, we have partnered with a distance learning provider to offer distance learning courses covering nearly 200 subjects twice a year. This system enables employees to freely select courses to promote skill improvement. As an incentive, employees who complete courses with high scores are eligible for partial tuition subsidies from the Healthy Company Slogan Increasing health awareness through independent action Activity details Based on the approach that the mental and physical health to promote effective health-related initiatives. of employees is a benchmark of company management, For insurer-specific implementation rates for the designated we are collaborating with health insurance unions to health exams and designated health guidance published enhance employee health management efforts. When by the MHLW, the Nippon Chemi-Con Health Insurance employees and their families are healthy, employees are Union rate of implementation for designated health able to work with peace of mind, which leads to growth for guidance during FY2017 was 85.2%, ranking Nippon the company. In particular, we identify keywords such as Chemi-Con No. 10 among Japanese health insurance rate of smokers, metabolic syndrome prevention, and unions (total of 1,635 unions). We will work to further mental health to implement initiatives that help improve the improve implementation rates in order to contribute to the health awareness of each employee. health maintenance and improvement of health insurance Also, we participate in the METI Survey on Health and union enrollees. Productivity Management and will further quantify “health” Activities for FY2019 Reinforcing smoking rules, reducing smoking Mental health support – Reaching national smoking average (17.7%) – Continuation of stress check system Society is paying greater attention to measures against We conduct the stress check system at all workplaces to smoking because tobacco impacts not only the smoker expand opportunities for discovery with a focus on but also the health of non-smokers due to second-hand prevention. In doing so, we are working to prevent the rate smoke. Tobacco increases the risk of lung cancer and of workers who suffer from mental illness or require a leave ischemic heart disease, and can greatly impact future of absence. At the same time, we provide line care training health. We promote various anti-tobacco measures from for management personnel to provide opportunities for the desire to promote health maintenance. learning how to respond to consultations from subordinates. Metabolic syndrome prevention measures – Reducing BMI of 25 or higher to 20% or lower by fiscal year 2020 Achieving work-life balance We believe that obesity (BMI of 25 or higher) leads to severe We work to create a comfortable work environment that diabetes and other future health risks. As such, we promote enables balance between work and childcare or family obesity prevention and improvement among employees by care in order to provide all employees with the opportunity providing instruction regarding lifestyle changes. As obesity is to reach their full potential. spreading among younger generations, from the time of hiring We also have established an action plan based on the Act we conduct blood tests as part of health examinations in order on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Nextto emphasize the importance of health from an early stage. Generation Children. Through this plan, we aim for paid Furthermore, we promote improved health awareness by using leave utilization rates and child care leave utilization rates internal magazine to introduce improvement case studies. of 70% and higher, and to reduce average overtime to 29 We also conduct behavior modification seminar at all sites hours or less per month, per employee. We are near once a year to provide an opportunity for our employees to achievement of these goals. think about health management and lifestyle diseases We will continue enhancing systems that promote flexible prevention. and diverse working styles. Corporate Governance / Compliance Corporate Governance The board audits decisions made by directors and operational executions carried out by executive officers, the Basic Concept business and financial positions of Nippon Chemi-Con and Nippon Chemi-Con’s basic concept of corporate its subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. governance is to ensure the transparency and efficiency of management for shareholders and all other stakeholders. Business Supervision and Audit Function In addition to legal functions such as General Meeting of Nippon Chemi-Con uses an executive officer system to Shareholders, the Board of Directors, the Audit & separate the business monitoring and supervision function Supervisory Board, and Accounting Auditor, the company and the business execution function of company directors established the internal control systems, and continuously in order to strengthen the business monitoring and provided information on business conditions through supervision function of directors. briefing session on financial results and timely disclosure to The Audit & Supervisory Board monitors the state of implement sound, efficient and transparent corporate governance and business management, and also monitors management. daily business activities, including the activities conducted by directors. Specifically, Audit & Supervisory Board Our Corporate Governance System Members working under guidelines outlined in auditing Nippon Chemi-Con is a company with an Audit & policies and audit plans created by the Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board. The company has introduced an Board attend board of directors meetings and conduct executive officer system in the company since June 2014 factory visits to investigate and validate the status of work in order to have a distinct separation between inspection implementation and business management, and conduct and supervision of management and execution of audits to determine the existence of circumstances that operations. The company concurrently reduced the violate laws or the Articles of Incorporation, or that could number of directors but appointed one outside director to harm the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. strengthen the function of inspecting and supervising In addition to Audit & Supervisory Board Members fulfilling management. In June 2015, the number of outside a role as a legal entity, we also have established the internal directors was increased to two to reinforce the function. audit department which reports directly to the company Additionally, to supplement the function of the Board of president. The internal audit department works to Directors, in November 2015 we established a Nomination strengthen monitoring functions for transactions and other Advisory Committee and a Compensation Advisory general business activities. The internal audit department Committee. For both the Nomination Advisory Committee conducts regular internal audits of management systems and the Compensation Advisory Committee, the related to all aspects of business and provides detailed chairperson is an independent outside director and the advice and recommendations aimed at improvement of majority of members are independent outside directors. work processes and reinforcing compliance. Our Audit & Supervisory Board comprises four members. Details of the Corporate Organs General Meeting of Shareholders Accounting Auditors Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Nomination Advisory Committee President Compensation Advisory Committee (Internal control and risk management) (Organs to execute business) Internal Audit Dept. Executive Committee Meeting Executive Officers Individual business departments, etc. Board of Nippon Chemi-Con’s Board of Directors comprises six members. The Board of Directors with this small number has enabled to make swift decisions and appointed two Directors independent outside directors who are disinterested in the company to reinforce the function of inspecting and supervising management. Executive Nippon Chemi-Con has introduced an executive officer system to make separation between the function of the Board of Directors’ decision making in management and of Officer System directors’ inspecting and supervising operations and the function of executive officers’ executing operations. Executive officers swiftly execute operations based on decisions in management by executing matters determined by the Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory The Audit & Supervisory Board inspects the state of the corporate governance, the steering situations, and daily activities in management including those performed by directors. Board The Nomination Advisory Committee consult with other members about the content of a draft to be proposal to a General Meeting of Shareholders concerning selection and Nomination dismissal of directors and members of the Audit & Supervisory Board and the content of a draft to be proposed to the Board of Directors concerning selection and dismissal of Advisory Committee executive officers. Such consultations are conducted prior to determination of such proposals in light of the “Standards for Selection of Directors and Executive Officers” and the “Standards for Selection of Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board” set by the company, the conclusions of which are recommended to the Board of Directors. The Compensation Advisory Committee consult with other members about matters concerning compensation of directors and executive officers and expenses opinions and advice to Compensation Advisory Committee the Board of Directors. Such consultations are conducted after the committee considers the business scale and levels of compensation of employees of the company, and decent third party’s study conducted periodically on compensation of corporate management, etc. in addition to levels of compensation of other competitors, socio-economic conditions, etc. Executive Nippon Chemi-Con has established the Executive Committee Meeting for making swift decisions. The committee, which is the consultation organ on operational execution policies, holds Committee Meeting weekly meetings, in principle, in order to examine important subjects in management. further increases director motivation toward maximizing Selection of Outside Officers corporate value. Of the six directors of Nippon Chemi-Con, two are outside For the purpose of enhancing the independence and directors. Also, of our four Audit & Supervisory Board objectivity of functions related to determining directors’ Members, two are outside Audit & Supervisory Board compensation, we establish a Compensation Advisory Members. Committee to deliberate on matters related to directors’ In addition to the parameters outlined in the Companies compensation, after which a decision is made by the Board Act, we established our own “Criteria for appointment of of Directors. outside officers that ensure independence from Nippon Furthermore, compensation for executive directors is Chemi-Con” to ensure highly-independent audits and comprised of monthly compensation and performancesupervision by our outside officers. Outside officers are linked compensation, which is determined based on selected based on these standards. company performance for the given fiscal year and All four outside officers are registered with the Tokyo Stock individual performance. As performance-linked Exchange as independent officers. compensation is not appropriate for non-executive directors and outside directors, their compensation Officer Compensation consists solely of monthly compensation. Compensation for Nippon Chemi-Con directors is designed Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is and managed as a system that is both linked to monthly compensation only, which is determined as performance and investor long-term income and to the individual fixed compensation based on deliberations by promotion of personnel growth and development. Our basic Audit & Supervisory Board Members. policy is to achieve an appropriate and fair balance that Total compensation by type (million yen) Total compensation Number of Officer category Performance-linked (million yen) Fixed compensation Retirement bonuses applicable officers compensation Directors (excluding outside directors) 159 128 30 0 5 Audit & Supervisory Board Members 43 43 0 0 2 (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Outside officers 36 36 0 0 4 Total 238 208 30 0 11 (For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019) Compliance One initiative related to ensuring compliance with competition laws is to invite external lecturers (attorneys) to Compliance Promotion System hold competition law seminars. At the same time, we In addition to our Compliance Regulations, the Nippon drafted the Basic Policies Concerning Compliance with Chemi-Con Group has established various internal Competition Laws and other internal regulations, manuals, regulations related to compliance and appoints a managing etc., which are applied to internal audits conducted by the compliance officer (executive officer in charge of the legal affairs department every year. Nippon Chemi-Con Administration Department) as the chief officer in charge of compliance promotion and Whistleblowing System enforcement. This chief compliance officer oversees a The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established compliance committee, which works to draft compliance “Regulations Related to the Handling of Whistleblowing,” policy that is applied to the entire Group, draft action plans through which we established a consultation desk and related to compliance, and conduct monitoring of whistleblowing help desk for employees (Nippon Chemiimplementation progress for these initiatives. Each Con in-house standing statutory member of the Audit & department in Nippon Chemi-Con and Group company Supervisory Board and Administration Department has assigned a compliance officer and compliance staff, manager) as part of a system for ensuring the early who work to promote and reinforce policy related to discovery and prevention of legal infractions and to protect compliance. whistleblowers. During compliance training, we explain the To further ensure overall compliance, we conduct CSR importance and effectiveness of whistleblowing to promote internal audits of each factory to confirm that management awareness about the whistleblowing system. During systems related to labor, health and safety, and ethics at all compliance training, we explain the importance and factories are constantly operating effectively. efficacy of whistleblowing and promote awareness of our As CSR education, we include compliance education whistleblowing system. To address questions that arise related to competition laws and insider trading regulations during daily operations, the department in charge of legal in new hire training and continuous training conducted at affairs serves as a help desk to provide legal consultation each employee level. We teach all employees that and help prevent compliance risks before they arise. compliance is at the forefront of all our corporate activities. Environmental Management Nippon Chemi-Con’s Environmental Policy (Summary) Environmental Activities ● Structures organization that operates at every level for The Nippon Chemi-Con Energy conserving the global environment group has the target of 1% conservation ● Sets environmental goals and targets, Improves and higher per unit of environmental performances, Continuous improvements improvement rate a year based on the Low-carbon society of EMS action Plan of Japanese 4 Industrial Associations from FY ● Considers biodiversity 2013, and we are promoting activities of the energy conservation working groups that are organized by the ● Observes all environmental laws, regulations, agreements, employees in charge of energy. and internal standards ● Promotes Energy conservation, Proper control of <Mid-term target> Chemical substances in the products, Effective use of In light of a “the Low-carbon society Action Plan” by the industrial associations: resources, Waste reduction Toward 2020 1 ● Promotes the development and marketing of products Improvement target in energy that have a less environmental loads consumption per unit Annual average : % and higher ● Educates and enlightens our entire workforce ● Prevents the environmental risks, and maintains <Long-term target> management systems that minimize the impacts from the In light of a common target set by the industrial associations: risks such as climate changes Toward 2030 1 ● Releases information to the public positively, and Improvement target in energy promotes sufficient communication with the local consumption per unit Annual average : % and higher community and stakeholders Trends in volume of carbon dioxide emissions and Compliance to the Laws and Significant accidents occurrence status unit energy consumption (sites in Japan) (Comparison ratio to the base year %) In corresponding to the laws and regulations, depending 100 on regulation parameters, Nippon Chemi-Con Group sets 80 stricter independent standard value for management, and all legal standards are observed. 60 The Voluntary Action Plan No significant accident occurred that impact the 40 of the Industry 2020 environment. 20 The Low-carbon society Action Plan 0 1990 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 (FY) <Activities results> Total volume of carbon dioxide emissions and breakdown (t-CO2) Fiscal Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Purchased Electric Power 483,070 475,603 489,601 518,243 476,074 A-grade Heavy oil 23,921 23,446 27,127 29,378 23,351 Kerosene 1,489 1,507 1,581 1,799 1,458 City Gas 23,449 22,295 17,587 18,463 21,210 Gasoline 351 325 310 304 320 LPG 340 308 304 366 354 LNG 382 510 0 0 1,825 Gas oil 106 155 65 233 120 Industrial steam 2,557 2,465 2,430 2,561 2,486 Waste Materials – Oil, Plastics 0 0 0 0 0 Waste Materials – Paper, Wood 0 0 0 0 0 Total 535,665 526,614 539,005 571,347 527,198 Notes: 1. We have revised the energy-CO2 conversion factor since FY2018 for the sites outside Japan. 2. Amount of energy-origin CO2 emissions is calculated by using emission factor (adjusted emission factor) released from Federation of Electric Power Companies. Resource In the manufacturing Biodiversity In the Nippon Chemiconservation activities of industries, the Initiatives Con Group’s activities resources are essential to conserve element. Efficient use of such resources will protect biodiversity, we will take actions for each of the three global environment and ecology. impacts on biodiversity. We encourage the “3R,” recycling, reusing, and reducing 1. [Impact from procurement of raw materials] In activities in order to contribute to the preservation of the cooperation with our suppliers, we share views and mutual understanding concerning biodiversity, and move environment. continuously ahead with activities. 2. [Impact on ecosystems caused by manufacturing] Our Trends in volume of resources consumed by entire manufacturing processes use energy and resources, and Nippon Chemi-Con Group they emit CO2, waste water and other emissions. As this ■ Metals ■ Plastics ■ Packaging material ■ Others is an area where our Group’s business activities directly (t) have an impact, effective and continuous activities are 40,000 ongoing. 3. [Impact on biodiversity due to changes in environments 30,000 surrounding our workplaces caused by our use of land] Consideration to local environment and surrounding 20,000 ecosystem by securing green space in our premises and the social contribution activities. 10,000 Biodiversity offers indispensable and vital bounties (ecosystem services) to all of humanity. The activities that 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) we are able to perform are steady and modest ones, we think. Yet we believe that each workplace employing its ingenuity, and continuing with what small activities it can Trends in volume of water consumed by entire accomplish, is a very significant thing. We will roll out such Nippon Chemi-Con Group steady and continuous activities. ■ Water for industrial use ■ Underground water ■ Piped water (Kt) C  hemi-Con Yamagata 15,000 Corp. Nagai plant Planting of nursery plant in 12,000 the premises to protect 9,000 specified natural monument of Yamagata 6,000 Prefecture “butterfly” by our employee, with 3,000 cooperation of children. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Waste The Nippon Chemi-Con Niigata plant Promoting protection of reduction Group has addressed specified natural activities for resource monument of Niigata recycling and reduction in landfill disposal volumes by Prefecture “KitanoMedaka,” and enlarging reducing the amount of industrial waste generated. protection circle by We further promote 3R, effective utilization and recycling of contributing to nearby resources to reduce wastes including plastic waste and elementary school. improve the final disposal rate. Trends of final disposing rate (sites in Japan)  hemi-Con Fukushima C (%) Corp. Fukushima plant 4 Participating “Lots of flower movement” in the 3 town of Yabuki, and planting many floral seeds 2 in a roadside. 1 WEB ● For more information, please see the website below. 0 2009 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) https://www.chemi-con.co.jp/e/env/index.html Contributions to Local Community The Nippon Chemi-Con Group values communication with local communities and actively promotes local contribution activities in a spirit of coexistence and coprosperity. C  ertificate and Letter of Relationship with local community appreciation in FY2018 “Shinai-motsugo” is a type of fish, registered as an endangered The Nippon Chemi-Con Group received a certificate for species by Ministry of Environment, found at Shinai-numa in its community contribution activities in 2018. Miyagi Prefecture. Chemi-Con Miyagi Corp. has been attempting hatching of ● Chemi-Con Iwate Corp. Shinai-motsugo in its premises. “Global-environment Friendly site of Iwate” By guidance from NPO, and by having exchange with elementary school which is participating in 4-star (Highest recognition) protection of Shinai-motsugo, we succeeded in difficult Sponsorship: Iwate Prefecture hatching in 2018. Iwate prefecture is awarding sites that are actively In June, 2019, elementary school students and we released participating CO2 reduction with “Global-environment Shinai-motsugo to their home, “Katsurasawa-pond.” Friendly site of Iwate” certification. Chemi-Con Iwate Corp. As a member of community, we will perform activities that was awarded 4-star (the highest recognition) in 2018. share the importance of passing on the rich nature to our future generations.  rotection of “Shinai-motsugo” P (June 2019)  nvironmental Volunteer E Activities For the purpose of environment protection, Nippon ChemiCon Group conducts environmental volunteer activities every year, including cleanup of near-by areas, by our employees and their family members. Cleaning activity of surrounding area by members of Chemi-Con Yamagata Corp. Yonezawa Plant (October 2018) Cleaning of Amishirohama beach in Seiro-machi by Niigata Plant members (June, 2018) Green Procurement / Third-party Evaluation of Environmental Initiatives M  anagement of Green procurement chemical substances and Green Supplier in the products Approval System Revised EU laws is enacted since July, 2019 with 10 In order to achieve products development that meet substances including 4 phthalic acid ester added newly. diversified customer’s requirement, it is essential to Moreover, same 4 phthalic acid esters will be regulated by construct cooperative relationship with suppliers and to threshold limit of 0.1% (total of phthalic acid esters) under share information in timely manner. EU REACH regulations from 2020. The regulatory The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established “Nippon environment surrounding our products are increasingly Chemi-Con Group Green Procurement Guideline” from the severe, and further comprehensive management system is viewpoint of procuring law-compliant raw materials and required. parts for ensuring a strict level of management. To cope The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has constructed with latest laws, regulations and requirements of management system for chemical substances in the automotive customers, we revised our Green Procurement products based on JIS Z 7201 “JAMP* Guidelines for the Guidelines for more thorough management. We also Management of Chemical substances in Products (CiP)” conduct periodical and continuous audit and evaluation on with “Keep Out, Do not Use, Do not Deliver, Do not Mix” as our suppliers to confirm their chemical substances our key words, at all production sites. To ensure thorough management and environmental protection activities. management of “Keep Out” from development stage of the Further, in order to support sustainable global procurement products, we have introduced our original environmental activities, we share regulatory information with suppliers approval system and material approval system to manage through “Green supplier approval system,” and periodically our purchasing materials and parts. and continuously audit and evaluate chemical substances / By combining those three management systems and the environment protection management of suppliers. Green Procurement Guidelines, we are able to manage chemical substances in the products at various levels of corporate activities such as development, purchasing, production and sales. Moreover, to ensure proper information distribution and to satisfy customer’s requirements, we have been actively using chemSHERPA (Ver.2) which was developed under guidance of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. *JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium Third-party evaluation on environmental initiatives I have read your company’s controlling Climate change. Among them I think your efforts CHEMI-CON REPORT 2019 that in the domain of biodiversity especially those been carried summarizes your 2018 out in many factory premises supporting regional performance in the matters endangered biodiversity might be noted with hope. Next concerned, along with a report year, 2020 is the target year of the Aichi Agenda of about the result of the Convention on Biological Diversity as proposed by Japanese authoritative Environmental Government in 2010. Efforts like promoting ex-situ Management Survey 2019 conservation of endangered species in factory area as done Company Ranking by The Nikkei. in several of your factories may be a model performance In the latter report I knew the adaptable to the Aichi Target. Also some reported trial efforts Yuji Kishi remarkable fact that your 2018 to connect those activities to educational support to regional Professor emeritus, performance has got a high rank, school children may be a hopeful SDGs contribution. Keio University 43rd among the 360 applicants of manufacturing industries, a significant leap from the Sustained efforts in those activities, along with significant 62nd place of previous year. advance in the domains of Environment Managing Promotion System and Climate Change, may result as a Your performance got significantly higher rating than average further higher praise of your company in the 2020’s in every five domains evaluated, i.e., Environment Managing Environmental contribution. Promotion System, Pollution control / Biodiversity, Resource management, Products management and Measures
