ONWARD➤ 2019 Activity Report ONWARD➤ 2019 Highlights Strategically Focused on Business Aviation In February 2020, we announced our strategic decision to focus on business $ 15.8B REVENUES 1 aviation and to accelerate the deleveraging and strengthening of our balance sheet through the sale of our Transportation division to Alstom SA. Expected $ 52.1B BACKLOG 2 to be completed following regulatory approvals and other conditions, this transaction will mark the conclusion of our turnaround and the beginning 60,600 EMPLOYEES 2 of a new chapter for our company.3 In the future, we will be focusing on our business aircraft segment, where Bombardier is a strong, well-established market leader.3 This Activity Report provides a review of the year 2019 and includes performance from both our Transportation and Aviation business segments. Contents 2 President’s Message 14 Customer Experience 22 Environment Although it remains important for us to report transparently on past performance, we cannot ignore the unprecedented global health and economic 4 Bombardier at a Glance 16 Operational Efficiency 24 Responsible Business crisis we are facing today, caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) 6 Strategy and Performance 18 Talent 26 Responsible Citizenship pandemic. At the date of publication of this report, the COVID-19 pandemic 10 Product Innovation 20 Preventive Culture 28 Notes has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and created significant economic uncertainty and disruption of financial markets. Bombardier temporarily reduced or suspended operations at various production facilities around the world. We have also suspended our 2020 financial outlook to reflect the uncertainty related to the financial impact of Corporate Profile the COVID-19 pandemic on our global operations.4 With over 60,000 employees, Bombardier is a global leader in the transportation industry, creating innovative and game-changing planes and trains. Our products and services provide world-class transportation experiences that set new standards in passenger comfort, energy efficiency, reliability and safety. We will keep our stakeholders informed as we navigate these extraordinary Headquartered in Montréal, Canada, Bombardier has production and engineering sites in more than 25 countries across its Aviation and Transportation times together. business segments. The company is recognized on the 2020 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World Index. 1. For fiscal year 2019. 2. As at December 31, 2019 3. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking statements at the end of this report. 4. Refer to our 2020 First Quarterly Report for complete description of impacts of COVID-19 pandemic. All financial figures in this report are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 1 ➤ PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE LEADING Earlier this year, I was honoured to be asked to take the helm as Chief Executive Officer of Bombardier, a company sheet and will mark the beginning of a new chapter for our company – one which I am We also continue to stand by our principles that how we deliver results is just as important THROUGH I am deeply passionate about, having previously worked very proud to lead.1 as what we achieve. Our renewed Code of in both the rail and aerospace sides of our business. As I Ethics, enhanced training programs and In business aviation last year, we celebrated the EXCEPTIONAL look to the future, I see many opportunities to elevate our updated Supplier Code of Conduct reinforce flawless entry-into-service of the Global 6500 this commitment and guide the programs culture and performance even as we navigate through aircraft. We also witnessed the remarkable TIMES and resources we put in place to ensure we all the new challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. in-service performance of the Global 7500 work in a safe environment, abiding to the and successfully completed the integration of highest ethical standards. its wing program into our operations. The Global 7500 truly sets the benchmark for the In closing, I want to emphasize my strong industry and it will be an integral part our belief that sustainable organizations must build In my first weeks back at Bombardier, I’ve In this environment, publishing a report and to continuing Bombardier’s future growth and success. and maintain a healthy, values-based culture. had the opportunity to interact with a lot on Bombardier’s 2019 performance and engage­ment towards the principles of This will be a key focus for me in the coming Bombardier also continues to make progress of our talented people and I have been past achievements might seem a bit the United Nations Global Compact. year, ensuring that Bombardier is a people and in integrating ESG performance into our business impressed with their commitment to our disconnected or irrelevant. But, here’s I also want to reaffirm our promise to customer-centric organization; that we value operations. We were again listed on the Carbon company, to serving our customers and why it is so crucial. The speed and depth report on our progress and performance performance and honour all commitments; Clean 200 List and among Corporate Knights’ supporting our communities in the face of the current global health and economic with consistency and transparency in that we work together with team spirit; and Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations. of adversity. So, I want to start this letter crisis has demonstrated that sustainability annual Activity Reports. that we are transparent and authentic in all These recognitions reflect Bombardier’s Éric Martel by thanking our employees and their is more important today than ever before. our interactions. President and In this year’s Activity Report, we highlight continued investments in building advanced families for their hard-work, patience and And, for a company that is entrusted to Chief Executive Officer some of the notable achievements and products and efficiently managing resources Again, I want to thank our incredible employees dedication during these difficult times. safely move millions of people around in its operations and across its supply chain. for their dedication, hard work and passion milestones over the past year as we the globe every day and whose success They also strengthen our conviction that over the past year and for helping to make With the COVID-19 pandemic creating continue to transform Bombardier. They depends on attracting and retaining sustainability is a key element of Bombardier’s the achievements outlined in this report unprecedented challenges for our include reaching agreements to sell the thousands of talented employees, it is performance and long-term success. possible. I’m confident that together, we will industry, for our company and for all of CRJ program and our aerostructures critical that we send a loud and clear overcome the current challenges, rebuild us individually, our immediate attention is business, which supports our strategic We understand that Bombardier, through its message reaffirming our commitment to our business, and celebrate an exciting new rightly focused on protecting the health decision to exit commercial aviation. actions, must continue to demonstrate that sustainable business practices as we chapter for Bombardier. Onward. and safety of our people, supporting In early 2020, we also announced the it is a good steward of the skies in which we resume operations and look to move our customers to the best of our abilities sale of our Transportation segment have the privilege to operate. A great example beyond the current crisis. and taking the actions necessary to to Alstom SA, and our intention to focus of our leadership in the area is our use and preserve the company’s long-term future. As Bombardier’s new Chief Executive exclusively on business aviation in the promotion of sustainable aviation fuels, which Officer, I am personally committed future. Collectively, these divestitures we now make available to our customers taking to pursuing ambitious environmental, will significantly strengthen the balance delivery of their aircraft in Montréal, Canada. social and governance (ESG) goals, MAJOR TRANSFORMATIONAL MILESTONES OUR 2020 PRIORITIES ■ Successfully completed development and reached entry-into-service of major aerospace programs. ■ Improved cost structure by streamlining activities and reinforcing our procurement organization. ■ Responsibly exited commercial aviation through the sale of our commercial aerospace programs. ■ Reached an agreement with Alstom SA to sell our rail transportation business. ■ Consolidated assets and engineering capabilities under Effectively Manage Align Aviation with Build Predictability Vigorously Pursue Responsibly Complete Set the Foundation for one strong business, focused on business aviation. our COVID-19 Response Market Demand at Transportation Aftermarket Business Divestitures Long-term Success to ensure our company’s to be more profitable and a steadier by being consistent in growth opportunities in our to help solve our balance by defining a clear vision for our long-term sustainability. cash-flow generating business. our performance. business aviation segment. sheet challenges. company and resetting our culture. 1. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking statements at the end of this report. From left to right: Employee, Querétaro site, Mexico; Learjet 75 Liberty aircraft; AVENTRA Electrical Multiple Unit, Derby site, United Kingdom; Aviation Mobile Response Team vehicle; MOVIA metro C30 for Stockholm, Sweden; Global 7500 aircraft 2 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 3 ➤ BOMBARDIER AT A GLANCE WE DELIVER Based in Montréal, Canada, Bombardier is a leading manufacturer of planes and trains, with more than INNOVATIVE AND 70 production and engineering sites in more than 25 countries and a global network of service centres. SUSTAINABLE Our Aviation and Transportation businesses offer an extensive portfolio of innovative products. Every day, PRODUCTS our trains and planes move millions of people around the globe – quickly, safely and efficiently. BOMBARDIER AVIATION Our business aviation segment designs, develops, Portfolio manufactures, markets and provides customer support ■ Learjet – light business jets for three class-leading families of business jets – Learjet, ■ Challenger – medium business jets Challenger and Global – in addition to outfitting various aircraft platforms for specialized use. Our business jet ■ Global – large business jets portfolio spans from the light to large categories. ■ Specialized aircraft ■ Services Global 7500 aircraft BOMBARDIER TRANSPORTATION Our rail transportation segment offers a wide-ranging Portfolio portfolio of innovative and efficient solutions in the rail ■ Rail vehicles – urban, commuter, regional, intercity, industry. It offers the full spectrum of rail solutions, ranging very high-speed from trains to sub-systems and signalling to complete ■ Transportation systems turnkey transport systems, e-mobility technology and data-driven maintenance services. ■ Locomotives and equipment ■ Signalling In early 2020, we announced the sale of our Transportation division to Alstom SA. ■ Propulsion, controls and energy management systems ■ Services, operations and maintenance TWINDEXX Swiss Express Electrical Multiple Unit, Switzerland Aircraft Deliveries 5 Transportation Revenues 1 Revenues 1 Number of Employees 2 Order Backlog 3 ■ Large 54 ■ Rolling stock and systems $ 5.2 $15.8B ■ Transportation $ 8.3 60,600 ■ Transportation 36,050 $52.1B ■ Transportation $ 35.8 175 ■ Medium 76 $8.3B ■ Services 2.1 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL ■ Aviation 7.5 ■ Aviation 24,350 ■ Aviation 4 16.3 ■ Light 12 ■ Signalling 1.0 ■ Other – Commercial 6 33 ~ 4,900 24/7 100+ 100,000+ 500+ 70+ Business Customer Service Rail vehicles Customers Countries with 1. In billions of dollars. For fiscal year 2019. 2. As at December 31, 2019, including contractual and 1,700 inactive employees. ~200 corporate office employees are not allocated to a reportable segment. aircraft in support facilities worldwide in service a local presence 3. In billions of dollars. As at December 31, 2019. 4. $14.4B for business aircraft, $1.9B for other aviation. 5. In units. For fiscal year 2019. 6. 26 regional jets and 7 turboprops. In June 2019, we announced the sale of our CRJ program to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. In May 2019, we completed the sale of the Q Series program to De Havilland Aircraft of Canada Limited. service 4 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 5 ➤ STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE CREATING A Effective management of financial and non-financial issues is an integral part of our business model. Various environ­ STRONGER, mental, social and governance related risks are shaping our operating environment and we regularly track how these MORE RESILIENT potential risks could affect our business. Taking a holistic and balanced approach to risk management enables us BUSINESS to further our ambition to create a more resilient business for the future.1 Sustainable product innovation and customer experience Product Development deleveraging and strengthens the balance Health, Safety and Environment Introducing new products or technologies sheet 2, but the timing and mag­nitude of Our products and manufacturing service are at the centre of everything we do. requires a significant commitment to the specific initiatives and associated activities are subject to laws and regu­ R&D investment and to maintaining highly benefits, if any, could still be affected by a lations where we operate, governing, skilled employees. Changes resulting from multitude of external and internal factors. among other things, human health and global trends influence customer demands See Operational Excellence. safety, product performance or material People Operational Excellence Responsibility in our main markets. We anticipate these content, chemical use, energy and Create a Develop efficient, Operate changes and continuously develop and Compliance and Ethical Conduct greenhouse gas emissions, air, water, people-centric cost-effective, with integrity invest in new products and technologies, Our global footprint exposes us to noise pollution, hazardous materials, and and healthy and and maintain trust and improve existing products and numerous risks relating to current and groundwater contamination. Embedding work environment innovative products in society services. Having just completed a major future regulations. Failure to comply with an HSE preventive culture in everything product investment cycle puts us in a laws and regulations, including antiwe do is essential to managing these solid position to compete and win in this bribery and other requirements could risks effectively. competitive industry. harm our reputation and reduce revenues See Preventive Culture; Environment. See Product Innovation. and profitability. In addition to clarifying our ethics and compliance expectations, Climate Change Order Backlog and Future Revenues we continue to strengthen our compliance Changing climate, including from the Our book-to-bill ratio and order backlog management system and embed our impacts of global warming, could result may not be indicative of future revenues. compliance culture across our network. in both physical risks such as extreme Changes in contracts may have an See Responsible Business. weather and long-term shifts in climate adverse effect on our reported backlog patterns and transition risks such as and impact on expected future revenues Human Resources new regulations and technology. These and profitability. We are taking proactive Employment market competition is changes could materially affect our actions to provide the right products fierce when it comes to hiring the highly business, results of operations and and services to our customers and deliver qualified employees needed to complete financial conditions. We are increasingly on our commitments. the work we require, particularly in incorporating climate-related considerSee Customer Experience. certain emerging countries. Our success ation into how we manage and oversee depends on our ability to develop skills, our product design, operations, and Cost Reduction and to retain employees, and to recruit, and customer relations. Working Capital Improvements there is no guarantee we will be successful. See Environment. As with any company-wide transformation, We have executed on our workforce there are inherent risks in the time of optimization actions, and are now stan­ Global Pandemic Outbreak the deployment and in the planned dardizing learning and development The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively value to be achieved. In February 2020, opportunities and increasing internships impacted the global economy, disrupted we announced the strategic decision to ensure our success. global supply chains and created signif­ to sell our Transportation business. This See Talent. icant economic uncertainty and disruption transaction accelerates Bombardier’s of financial markets. The health and safety of our employees remains our first priority and we are monitoring the situation closely.3 Global 6500 aircraft 1. Refer to our 2019 Financial Report for complete description of risks and uncertainties. 2. Forward-looking statement. Refer to Forward-looking statements at the end of this report. 3. Refer to our 2020 First Quarterly Report for complete description of impacts of COVID-19 pandemic. 6 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 7 ➤ STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE CONTRIBUTING As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2007, we are committed to actively promoting its MEASURING We are committed to providing transparent and precise information on how we are performing as a business. TO SUSTAINABLE 10 fundamental principles across our operations. We also endorse the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development OUR The following table 1 provides a brief summary of the indicators we track to measure our performance every year, GROWTH Goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity. We focus on the goals where we can have PROGRESS covering financial, social and environmental information. Throughout our transformation, we have continued to the greatest impact given our corporate mission. measure our progress against these indicators to ensure consistency and transparency. Sustainable 2019 Highlights Financial 2019 2018 2017 2 Development Goals (in millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated) (for fiscal years) Given our global presence, we have the ability to set sustainability standards across our value Revenues 15,757 16,236 16,199 chain and positively stimulate inclusive growth. Last year, we contributed $5 billion in employee EBIT margin (3.2)% 6.2% 1.8% benefits sustaining high-value jobs and invested an unprecedented $17 million CAD in our Cash flows from operating activities (680) 597 531 internship program to train the next generation of innovators. Investments in product development 3 435 1,136 1,235 Available short-term capital resources 4 3,925 4,373 4,225 Social Our products are setting new benchmarks in passenger comfort, reliability and eco-efficiency. Last year, we invested $435 million in research and development. We also embarked on exciting Incident rate 5 0.97 1.08 1.30 collaborations in big data, artificial intelligence and cleaner, greener technology that we believe Fatalities (employees) 0 2 0 will deliver value and positive impact for societies worldwide. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 61 57 56 Total turnover rate (%) 21 12 10.8 Employee productivity (in thousands of dollars) 244 239 233 Gender diversity (% women) 18 19 19 In rail, our mission is to make reliable, safe, and sustainable transport available for all. At the end of 2019, $4.1 billion of our order intake originated from emerging countries, a 86% increase from Environmental last year. We started a partnership with the Climate Bonds Initiative in Asia Pacific to further help our customers advance rail projects by leveraging green bonds opportunities. Energy intensity (GJ per million dollars of revenue) 270 283 271 GHG emission intensity (tCO2e per million dollars of revenue) 16 17 17 Renewable electricity (thousands of GJ) 894 663 701 Valorized waste (% total waste generated, hazardous and non hazardous) 84 84 81 As more than 80% of environmental impacts can be determined at the design stage, our eco-design process ensures we embed the environment at all phases of our product innovation life-cycle both in rail and aviation. We are the only business aviation manufacturer to have completed an environmental life-cycle assessment on an aircraft, the Global 7500 aircraft. In aerospace, our product innovation strategies are aligned with the business aviation sector goals for carbon neutral growth from 2020; and for reducing CO2 emissions by 50% by 2050, based on 2005 data. In 2019, we made great progress in increasing adoption and availability of Renewed Sustainability Objectives and Strategy sustainable alternative fuels in business aviation, a critical element of aviation’s climate action plan. Measuring our progress is key to our success. Our Board of In addition, we plan to deploy a renewed global sustainability Directors, through its Human Resources and Compensation strategy overseen by the Board of Directors. This new global Committee and Audit Committee, already reviews on a strategy will help create value for our stakeholders and further We play a leadership role in advancing global action in various areas of sustainability. In 2019, quarterly basis occupational health and safety as well as our ambition to build a world-class sustainable business for the we contributed to the establishment of industry-wide standards in environment through the ethics and compliance matters. This year, in an effort to long-term. By developing a renewed plan, we will be able to International Aerospace Environmental Group and sustainable procurement practices through further advance our sustainability approach, we will reinforce make measurable progress on our sustainability performance. Railsponsible. We also support many community partnerships. In 2019, we invested $2.5 million our internal governance on sustainability topics. in community development globally. 1. Refer to Our Performance section on our website for more detailed information. 2. 2017 figures have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers. 3. R&D expense and program tooling before amortization. 4. Defined as cash or cash equivalents plus the amount available under revolving credit facilities. 5. Number of recordable cases, expressed per 200,000 hours worked. 8 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 9 ➤ PRODUCT INNOVATION INNOVATION Built on a strong tradition of human ingenuity, our products are setting new benchmarks in passenger comfort, reliability MOVES US and eco-efficiency, and collaboration is key to our innovation success. Last year, we embarked on exciting collaborations FORWARD in big data, artificial intelligence and cleaner, greener technology that we believe will deliver an even higher level of sophistication in the mobility solutions of tomorrow. The Nuage seat features a patented tilt link system for a novel deep recline position, a floating base and a tilting headrest for increased comfort. Our many innovation collaborations put us at the forefront of mobility. ➤ ➤ ➤ ➤ Artificial Intelligence Big Data Greener Energy Efficient Mobility Working with Scale AI, a Canadian Teaming up with GE Aviation With Leclanché, one of the world’s Our investments in industry research supercluster, and IVADO, a world-class we are creating a Smart Link Plus leading providers of energy storage projects, such as HORIZON, Aero21 ecosystem of internationally renowned connectivity solution to give systems, we are accelerating the and SA2GE (phases 2 and 3), are researchers, we are bringing together our customers real insights to shift towards full electrification and bringing together large aerospace our know-how and their academic monitor and optimize operational more environmentally friendly rail companies, small and medium expertise to improve productivity and efficiencies. Namely, customers mobility with the use of Lithium-ion enterprises, local universities and design more efficient aircraft using can use the fleet-wide data to cells. In Aviation, we received an research centres, to push the limits artificial intelligence. boost efficiency and minimize inaugural shipment of sustainable of technology and build more return-to-service times. aviation fuel to be offered to efficient aircraft. customers at our Montréal facility. 10 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 11 ➤ PRODUCT INNOVATION EMBEDDING Our rich history of ingenuity makes us who we are today: an industry-leading manufacturer with a strong portfolio SUSTAINABILITY of products. We are conscious of the increasing impact of megatrends shaping our business from population growth IN PRODUCT and urbanization, to digitalization and environmental awareness. We are committed to building our products with INNOVATION the future in mind – making them reliable and more efficient, while contributing to highly favourable operating costs. FLEXITY 2 tram, Blackpool, United Kingdom Global 7500 aircraft Employee, Hartford Service Centre, United States Sustainability is core to our product innovation strategy. ➤ ➤ ➤ Delivering Safe Autonomous Operations with additional functionality being Designing for a Smooth Ride Setting the Benchmark aviation history, demonstrated its GLOBAL 7500 AIRCRAFT: Our automated train operations innovations planned to enable safer operation of The new high-speed transonic wing of the on Performance steep-approach and short landing ENGINEERED FOR EXCELLENCE provide new technologies for driver trams on city streets. Global 7500 aircraft is one of its signature In the year since its entry-into-service, capabilities and garnered five assistance systems and driverless trains. components. The wing design contributes the Global 7500 has continued to prestigious awards. Industry-leading 7,700 nautical mile range As part of our engagement with the ■ In 2019, we released our latest innovation, to the aircraft performance through its set records and be recognized for its Top speed of Mach 0.925 and Shift2Rail initiative, we successfully The Global 7500 is also the only ■ COMPAS, a collision and over-speed optimized weight, flight control system design and performance. In 2019, exceptional short-field performance demonstrated digitally coupled trams business aircraft designed using a monitoring and prevention system based architecture, improved aerodynamics the aircraft set speed and distance Only business jet to accommodate using radio remote control systems. This total life-cycle approach, making the ■ on our proven Obstacle Detection such as its patented inboard slat cut, and records, including completing the four true living spaces innovative system aims to help operators design for environment an integral Assistance (ODAS) technology. A first structural improvements such as straight longest non-stop city pair in business ■ Next generation fly-by-wire technology increase rail capacity on tracks by part of how we innovate. in the industry, COMPAS is now in the final leading-edge slats for higher wing to maximize safety operating trains closer together without stages of operational evaluation loading and stability. ■ Advanced air management system offering compromising on safety. 100% outside air or Purification setting 12 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT FLEXITY 2 photo: Gavin Lewis Photography BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 13 ➤ CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE DELIVERING On the ground and in the air, our products provide customers with world-class transportation experience. A SUPERIOR To meet their evolving needs, our ambition is to build stronger customer relationships, achieve an unparalleled CUSTOMER level of satisfaction and loyalty, and make sure customers can experience our products to the fullest. Put simply, EXPERIENCE our job is to make customers’ lives better. Over the past year, we have been actively working to further create an optimized In 2019, our Rail Control Solutions team in Asia Pacific also started a partnership Offering Superior Customer Support Over the past few years, we have been Global 6500: service experience – one that thoroughly with the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) to actively working to grow our global Elevating our anticipates our customers’ needs. This has included bringing into service further help our customers in emerging markets advance rail projects by customer experience footprint, introducing new features and services for our Customer Offering new generation solutions that surpass leveraging green bonds opportunities. customers. We have reinvested in parts to New Heights customer expectations, using big data to Green bonds represent an exciting new inventory, expanded maintenance stations revolutionize how our customers use our source of capital to realize large, climateand service centres, and grown our products, delivering superior aftermarket friendly infrastructure projects like rail. operations and maintenance services. services and staying fully connected As a not-for-profit organization working The entry-into-service of the Global 6500 marked a significant milestone In Aviation, we continued to deliver a with our customers in real time. to mobilize the bond market for in 2019, offering unmatched passenger comfort, greater range, a larger cabin double-digit organic growth in 2019 and climate change solutions, CBI delivered and a smoother ride than competitor aircraft in the same class. extended our customer support substan­ Delivering Value to Customers training sessions to our leadership tively around the world. We launched ■ Strong environmental performance We are driven by the desire to offer team, structured finance, sales and new line maintenance stations in Dubai, 13% more fuel efficient compared to previous generation unmatched value to our customers and bids teams, as well as offered a broader ■ Teterboro and Van Nuys, expanded our we continuously work at improving training session to key employees. ■ Advanced aircraft health management system Paris line maintenance station, announced efficiency and reliability of our products Nuage seat, the only seat with deep recline, floating base and tilting headrest expansions of service centre offerings ■ and services. Our Challenger 350 aircraft Redefining Passenger Experience in Singapore and China, and also ■ Nuage chaise, converting into a flat surface for sleeping or banquet-style dining was the most delivered business jet in the Our new generation of mobility solutions announced the development of a new Air management system offering 100% outside air or Purification setting super mid-size segment again last year. are the result of an unrelenting commit­ ■ service centre in Miami Dade Opa-Locka. The aircraft has the lowest direct operating ment to excellence and a desire to With our new Service Touchpoint survey, cost in its class, through affordable give our customers an exceptional customers can also now communicate maintenance programs and longer main­ experience. The Global 7500 aircraft directly with our leadership team on their Nuage chaise, Global 6500 aircraft tenance intervals than the competition. offers a unique spaciousness, being the customer experience. only business jet to offer four distinct In rail, we recently started using drones for living spaces. Last year, we continued In Transportation, signalling can play a inspection of rolling stock and facilities to elevate offerings for our customers, dynamic role in optimizing total system as part of our offerings for customers launching three new features: an performance, leading to increased in the United Kingdom. This innovative DESIGNING FOR COMFORT AND ELEGANCE advanced Soleil cabin lighting, the customer satisfaction. For instance, for tech­nology lowers maintenance costs immersive l’Opéra audio system, and the Shenzhen Metro Line 3, equipped and enables customers to increase inspec­ the newly designed Nuage seat. with our CITYFLO 650 solution, we In 2019, our recently-launched ZEFIRO Express intercity train for Sweden’s Västra tions without disrupting operations. are working to introduce a diagnostic Götaland region received the Brandenburg Design Award. monitoring program and build an The award recognized the train’s striking exterior, which is characterized by a upgrade testing lab on site to support classic Scandinavian design that merges practical functionality with modern the whole life of the signalling system. elegance and a subdued colour scheme. The design process presented a unique challenge to create an attractive train that could still function efficiently in the region’s demanding winter conditions. The award also highlighted the spacious interior architecture focused on passenger ➤ ➤ ➤ experience and comfort, namely featuring a smart lighting concept that creates a Global 6500 aircraft 200 aircraft serviced daily 56% order increase for serene ambiance for passengers. ZEFIRO Express intercity train entry-into-service by Aviation rail signalling and services 1 1. In dollars. As at December 31, 2019. Compared to order intake as at December 31, 2018. 14 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 15 ➤ OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY CONTINUOUSLY All through our turnaround journey, we have managed our business with prudence, maintained a solid liquidity position STRIVING FOR and kept our sight on our end goal: gain the right financial flexibility to face growing challenging environments. To OPERATIONAL improve our performance, we spent recent years building our organization and streamlining our aerospace and rail EXCELLENCE businesses to become a much more focused company. As a result, we are now concentrated on our key strengths. Over the past few years, we have been focused on improving efficiency and In Aviation, we focused on ramping up new programs. In 2019, we celebrated Managing Supply Chain Risks While improving operational efficiency, we State-of-the-Art productivity, while taking actions to the successful certification and have strengthened our processes to reduce Manufacturing create a leaner, more focused business entry-into-service of the Global 6500 risks in our supply chain. Guided by our to better serve our customers. aircraft, on-time and on-budget. We revised Third-Party Due Diligence Policy, also made significant progress on our our supply chain organization has formal­ Streamlining our business Global 7500 production learning curve ized its risk assessment procedure prior to In 2019 and early 2020, we announced and acquired the wing program from engaging with new suppliers and conducts transactions to exit from commercial Triumph Group, Inc. to ensure a seamless reviews based on their operational risk aerospace and we streamlined transition from design to production. framework. Last year, we also reviewed remaining aerospace activities and our Supplier Code of Conduct to keep on engineering capabilities under one Empowering our Supply Chain par with international standards, especially single Aviation business. Engaging with a thriving supply chain with respect to anti-corruption, human is essential to our success. Over the rights and forced labour. We also reshaped our rail business, past years, we have taken significant improving our design-to-production Many of the issues associated with global steps to streamline procurement process. While steady progress was procurement are common to all our activities. Last year, we also extended made, we still experienced challenges industry. We continuously collaborate with our Supplier Diamond Awards to our and delays on key legacy rail projects, industry peers to enhance sustainable rail business, sharing best practices which negatively affected our financial supply chain management and find alter­ and highlighting suppliers operational perfor­mance for 2019. In early 2020, natives to comply to changing regulations performance and competitiveness. we announced our strategic decision when certain chemicals become obsolete. The awards aim to: to accelerate the deleveraging of our In Aviation, we also provided trainings on Global 7500 balance sheet through the sale of our ■ Motivate our supply chain to environmental compliance and manageaircraft manufacturing Transportation division to Alstom SA. achieve excellence; ment to our supply chain agents. ■ Build mutually beneficial Improving Efficiency and Productivity relationships with suppliers; Navigating through Uncertain Times Last year, we completed our rail transition The current global economic and sanitary ■ Align our language, expectations, towards standardized product platforms crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic INVESTING IN ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES and definition of excellence; and that work to build more commonalities is significantly impacting our activities. and scale up innovations. Almost 70% of ■ Source strategically and make We already took the decision to suspend Each aspect of the thoughtful design of the Global 7500 is built using new and advanced manufacturing Higher Efficiency new orders in 2019 came from high reuse better decisions for partnerships. our 2020 financial outlook to reflect the technologies. The ramp-up in production of our Global 7500 program has been successful thanks platforms, options on existing rolling stock, uncertainty related to the financial impact to these technologically advanced tools and processes, resulting in first-time quality and high efficiency. service contracts and signalling projects, of the pandemic on our global operations. which carry lower execution risk. ■ A state-of-the-art Automated Positioning ■ Advanced practices in dimensional manageSystem uses laser guidance to position major ment determine variations between design components for joining. dimensions and actual dimensions to increase ■ A robotic arm for precision drilling ensures efficiency and achieve first-time quality. 50% ➤ ➤ ➤ that no sharp aluminum extends beyond the ■ Reconfiguration of the shop floor includes Reduction in required time for edge of the cut. a fully-enclosed finishing department to engine installation Ramped up the Recognized Announced aviation increase quality. Global 7500 aircraft high-performing suppliers divestitures 16 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 17 ➤ TALENT CREATING As part of our transformational journey, we have rethought how we work to strengthen our performance, reduce operating A WORKFORCE costs and achieve best-in-class productivity. Our focus is now on leveraging the full potential of our more than 60,000 FOR OUR FUTURE employees representing 139 nationalities to create a skilled, inclusive and diverse workplace where every employee feels empowered and respected. Last year, we focused our actions on reinforcing tools and strategies offered diversity and inclusion strategy and hired a dedicated Talent and Diversity With this program, we aim to provide students with practical real-world Bombardier As an employer of choice, we are committed to investing in the development of our talent Through the portal, our employees can take charge and develop a strong foundation in to our employees so they develop their lead. We launched a number of awareness experiences that complement their Academy by providing state of the art learning solutions five leadership competencies: skills and competences, feel part of an inclusive community and embrace a campaigns, including unconscious bias webinars for managers and embedded academic training and better prepare them for a career in our field. We believe of Learning accessible to all. The Bombardier Academy of Learning portal is ready to be fully launched in ■ Driving success; high-performance culture. We also diversity and inclusion content in this program will also help tackle the 2020, encouraging employee empowerment, ■ Providing direction; launched a brand-new internship program leadership training modules. important projected skills shortages Full deployment autonomy, and self-driven initiatives with hand­ ■ Engendering confidence and trust; to ensure we train the next generation and underrepresentation of women in in 2020 picked learning materials accessible at all times. As part of our rigorous focus on gender ■ Building effective teams; and of talented leaders. the transport sector, since we have balance, we paired high-potential female The Academy focuses on many aspects of ■ Leading change. committed to reaching a 40% female with executive mentors. We also deployed development, including: Engaging with our Employees participation in the program. an internal gender pay gap tool and In 2019, we also initiated a pilot project Over the past few years, our transfor­ ■ Self-development; engaged in a three-year collaboration by offering 2,000 employees access to the mation journey has undoubtedly affected Optimizing Training Leadership development; with “Women in Governance” to grow ■ LinkedIn Learning Program. our employees across Bombardier. and Development Platforms women representation in our workforce ■ Team development; and In times of change, it is critical to listen Our employees have their own career under their Parity Certification program. Functional complementary skills on ethics, to our people and provide the right set development plans, supplemented by Employees, ■ of channels to collect their feedback. opportunities for high-potential Querétaro facility, Mexico diversity, health & safety, and environment. Investing in our Future Employee engagement remains a strong employees to work closely with our Attracting talented individuals is key focus, and last year we completed a leadership teams. Last year, we continued to the success of our business. This is pulse survey to complement our full to enhance our Bombardier Academy why we are committed to early career two-year employee survey. This pulse of Learning to enable an automated development programs designed to survey permitted our employees to speak and self-service platform for our teams, increase the talent pool in the rail and their mind through this anonymous and focusing on functional skills as well as aerospace sectors through industry open dialogue and informed us of the leadership development. As part of our placements, apprenticeships, and areas that necessitated the most attention. leadership training, we finalized the internship programs. curriculum of our Leadership MasterClass, Focusing our Diversity and The year 2019 marked a new internship an advanced development program Inclusion Strategy record for us. We committed $17 million focused on strengthening the compe­ With our changing global footprint, CAD to educate and develop the next tencies of our Executives, which will be we remain committed to providing an gener­ation of innovators and business piloted in 2020 with a sample from inclusive workplace to a diverse workleaders through 1,000 paid internship the executive pool. force. To focus our efforts, last year, positions in Canada in a single academic we began formalizing our future year, partnering with more than 20 colleges and universities. ➤ ➤ ➤ 2,000 LinkedIn Learning 1,000 paid internship Gender Parity Certification licenses granted positions offered in Canada program started 18 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 19 ➤ PREVENTIVE CULTURE DELIVERING Safety is a core value that we strive to embed in everything we do. Our journey towards leadership in a Health, Safety EXCELLENCE IN & Environment (HSE) preventive culture is driven by our zero harm mindset and belief that all incidents can be prevented. PREVENTIVE The safety of our people, our communities and the environ­ ment around us is paramount and we expect all those who CULTURE work for or on our behalf to adopt this same commitment. Our aim is for a HSE preventive culture that goes beyond compliance to one that In Aviation, we also deployed a new “We Care” program. The program aims Last year, we reviewed and updated our standard rules for critical risks at Leveraging Best Practices people feel empowered by. Over the at placing the employee at the center Aviation and, based on this review, we to Achieve Zero Harm past year, we continued to make progress of all health and safety actions and will be deploying a safety consequence towards our zero harm ambition. Our ensuring people feel listened to and manage­ment standard across our sites in efforts focused on three key areas: visible cared for. At Transportation, where we 2020. At Transportation, we also started With more than 70 production and engineering sites across Sharing such best practices increases commitment towards leadership, preventive risk management, have the largest operational footprint, using predictive analytics on both our the globe, we always look to improve ways to ensure prevention an HSE preventive culture. Engagement from leaders and and HSE best practice sharing to foster our senior leaders stepped up their critical incidents and near misses to gain measures are applied systematically and best practices employees, and their disciplined and relentless focus on critical continuous improvement. involvement by actively participating in insights into patterns and correlations, leveraged globally. In 2019, more than 85 best practices were risks have also been important success factors. As a results of more than 18,500 compliance-driven and to help us anticipate where and how shared and more than 45 lessons learned were raised and these actions, several large manufacturing and servicing sites Embracing Visible Leadership leadership safety tours across our sites incidents might occur next. implemented across sites. celebrated impressive milestones in zero lost time incident last Executive leaders hold quarterly HSE worldwide and conducted deep dives year, including: meetings, with structured follow-ups and on our critical safety risks and adherence Prioritizing Safety in a Global Crisis For example, the cohabitation campaign best practice at our performance monitoring, and health to safety directives. Transportation Since the start of 2020, the global Challenger plant in Canada was shared with all HSE teams ■ 15 years in Kingston, Canada; and safety results are also reviewed by also produced a series of videos high­ COVID-19 pandemic has greatly affected worldwide. The campaign puts the reality of employees ■ 15 years in Camden, USA; the Board of Directors through its Human lighting leaders in action during safety our operations. We are implementing and their colleagues front and center to raise employee ■ 6 years in Pittsburgh, USA; Resources and Compensation Committee tours to elevate the message to all the necessary measures to protect our awareness regarding internal circulation issues. Through the campaign, participants are proud to share their prevention ■ 5 years in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; on a quarterly basis. The visible embrace employees worldwide. employees, customers and suppliers and of HSE preventive culture by our leaders do our part to limit the spread of the messages and employees better relate to them. ■ 1,300+ days in Savli, India; and their interactions with our employees Focusing on Preventive virus. We implemented travel restrictions ■ 1,000+ days in Kassel, Germany; and have been important in motivating and Risk Management globally, increased the frequency of our ■ 1,000+ days in Casablanca, Morocco. generating a revised sense of ownership Our health and safety management stringent cleaning and disinfection for HSE at all levels. system, which we are now transitioning measures across our offices, production Safety tour, Hennigsdorf facility, Germany to the ISO 45001 standard to further sites and maintenance facilities and Last year, our management teams at proactive risk control and leadership took additional country and locationTransportation reinforced the importance involvement, defines the requirements we specific measures that comply with local of promoting a positive safety culture follow to identify and manage HSE risks guidelines and restrictions such as and participated in a HSE preventive and impacts across our operations. Over asking employees who can work from culture e-learning series to further their DRIVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT the years, our focus has been on better home to do so. Safety remains our knowledge and engagement. understanding the site activities and number one priority.1 processes that could lead to critical risks. We are diligent in reinforcing and embracing a mindset of continuous improvement. Incident Rate 1 Sites regularly receive updates on incident investigations and action-oriented 1.99 directions to prevent similar incidents from occurring. We also regularly refresh 1.72 communications on our key safety values and behaviours, and share best practices 1.57 from sites with lower incidents. 1.30 1.08 0.97 As a result of our efforts, our safety performance has been gradually improving. Our incident rate is down 51%, from 1.99 in 2014 to 0.97 in 2019 and some of our largest manufacturing and services sites are proud to have achieved continuous ➤ ➤ ➤ months with zero incidents. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 51% incident rate ISO 45001 45+ alerts and reduction since 2014 management system 85+ best practices transition underway shared across sites 1. Number of recordable cases, expressed per 200,000 hours worked. 1. Refer to our 2020 First Quarterly Report for complete description of impacts of COVID-19 pandemic. 20 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 21 ➤ ENVIRONMENT MANAGING As we evolve our business for the future, we are innovating our operations in a way that creates more value from fewer OUR RESOURCES resources and reduces environmental impacts. More than ever, there is a real sense of urgency for climate action EFFICIENTLY and a growing concern that the natural resources we rely on to produce our products will become scarcer and more expensive. We want to be ready to tackle these challenges. By reducing our footprint and using resources more efficiently, we can also were supplied by renewable electricity sources, an increase from 2018. Last Waste Generation Measures to reduce waste at our manu­ Fueling a More Sustainable improve cost efficiencies and build year, we also completed the voluntary facturing sites are focused on the recovery Aviation Industry com­petitiveness in our business. adhesion of our eligible sites to the of solvent waste, better segregation of Anchored by our ISO 14001 Environmental Western Climate Initiative’s (WCI) cap materials, and offering our customers Management System, we are now and trade system for GHG allowances, technologies and solutions to help reduce The aviation industry has been proactive demonstration flights as well as during KEY FACTS ON actively defining our next cycle of environ­ which connects markets from Quebec, their material use. Despite these efforts, in recognizing and tackling its climate flights to major air shows and events SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUELS mental targets and long-term objectives, Nova Scotia and California. This decision we saw our total waste generation change impact. On the technology side, to raise industry awareness of SAF as designed to help further reduce our helps lower climate impacts from our (both hazardous and non-hazardous) we continue to make huge strides in a mainstream, drop-in alternative to ■ Are made of non-petroleum-based environmental footprint, as well as drive operations, and offers both environmental increase by 3% compared to 2018, while aircraft efficiency, as original equipment traditional jet fuel for business aircraft. or blended components, e.g., used greater efficiencies in the business. Our and cost saving. valorization rate remained at 84%. manufacturers like Bombardier invest and cooking or plant oils, solid municipal priorities will be focused on reducing In 2019, we played a leading role advancing waste, biomass, agricultural residues innovate. New engines and advancements our energy, greenhouse gases (GHG), Water Consumption Eco-efficient Manufacturing actions through the General Aviation Reduce net life-cycle CO2 emissions in aerodynamics contribute to delivering ■ waste and water across our value chain. Efficiencies in water consumption have In the past ten years, our new buildings Manufacturers Association (GAMA) Respect the same standards as jet reduced fuel burn. ■ realized a 4% reduction in water use have received LEED certifications or Environment Committee and we organized A/A-1 fuel Energy and GHG Management in 2019. Although our water consumption have been built following eco-efficiency That said, we know that technological four industry-wide SAF demonstrations. ■ Enable drop-in jet fuel production from In 2019, we improved our energy and GHG levels remain low, we have been making best practices adapted to regions’ improvements are only part of the We also received an inaugural shipment different raw material sources efficiency by 7% and 10%, respectively, sure water use is metered and measured environmental concerns. We continue solution. For this reason, Bombardier is of SAF at our delivery centre in Montréal, ■ Offer superior benefits to petrol-based surpassing our fixed one-year target to improve data quality and reporting. to follow this approach for ongoing leading the way to ensure that sustainable Canada to offer to our customers on jet fuel in environmental, social and aviation fuels (SAF) become a standard delivery flights. This is a first step in economic aspects to sustain our 2018 results. The majority We also made structural changes at constructions. Moving forward, we of our energy consumption is driven many of our sites to further reduce water are determined to put a premium on for the industry, for our customers our plan to secure long-term supplier by production and demand for cooling leaks and optimize consumption. eco-efficiency with our Singapore, and in our day-to-day operations. Since partnerships for SAF to all our facilities, and heating. In 2019, more than 50% Biggin Hill and Florida sites now planned 2017, we have been using SAF during as worldwide supply becomes more of energy requirements for electricity to be built following this approach. readily available. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INITIATING A DECARBONIZATION TRANSITION PLAN Total Energy GHG Emissions Water Waste As a leading manufacturer, we know the important role we Our Game Plan Consumption Scope 1 & 2 Withdrawn Hazardous and non-hazardous can play to address the growing threat of climate change, Over the next year, we plan to formalize our plan on how we ■ Millions of GJ ■ Thousands of tonnes of CO2e ■ Millions of ■ Thousands of tonnes — Revenue Intensity — Revenue Intensity (tonnes of cubic metres (m3) — Valorized waste while embracing the opportunity to drive innovation, increase will achieve our net-zero aspirations. We already have a number (GJ/million $ revenue) CO2e/million $ revenue) (% of total waste) competitiveness and stimulate growth. We also recognize the of initiatives underway to: 283 17 17 17 17 17 84 84 importance of communicating transparently on our approach 264 259 270 271 270 16 16 77 78 81 ■ Increase R&D in clean products development 241 76 76 and we are looking to align with the recommendations from and electrification; 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.4 4.4 4.6 4.3 316 321 313 285 272 280 252 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.7 56 54 51 47 52 54 55 the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. ■ Improve energy efficiency in our operations; Our Aspiration ■ Source renewable energy; Achieve net zero emissions by 2050, with the aim of limiting Secure the long-term supply of sustainable aviation fuels; and BASELINE BASELINE BASELINE BASELINE ■ planetary warming to less than 2°C when compared to ■ Optimize carbon offsets. pre-industrial levels. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 22 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 23 ➤ RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACHIEVING A A strong ethical culture is fundamental to our success. It helps us attract, hire and retain the very best people. WORLD-CLASS It reinforces our ability to compete with integrity in the most competitive global markets. And, it gives us a sense ETHICS PROGRAM of pride and instills confidence in all our stakeholders that we are a trustworthy partner. From the boardroom to day-to-day operations on our shop floors, our compliance culture permeates all facets of our business. Last year, under the oversight of our and Leadership series, we bring to life as well as our key risks areas – corruption, and values in everyday decision-making. Empowering and encouraging our Ethics and Compliance Office, we the important role our leaders play to anti-trust, gifts and entertainment, Furthermore, a face-to-face training employees to identify instances of potential CULTURE took important steps to build upon and inspire the right behaviours in us and conflicts of interest, harassment, money was provided to shop floor employees wrongdoing provides us with an extra strengthen our solid foundation of create a safe environment for employees laundering and export control. The on the new Code of Ethics. safeguard in the event of unforeseen MONITORING AND OBJECTIVES ethics and compliance. We renewed to speak up. We also strengthened our revised Code of Ethics is available in 16 failures or violations. IMPROVEMENT When employees have questions, our Ethics and Compliance management ethics and compliance on-boarding languages, and is supplemented by tools concerns or need specific training, they BOMBARDIER system, refreshed our codes and process for new employees to ensure and resources to provide information, Employees have access to various can turn to our on-site Ethics and COMPLIANCE compliance policies, expanded our they share our values right from the support and training for employees on resources, including our online reporting MANAGEMENT Compliance Ambassador network, now COMMUNItraining program, and continued start and know the channels available related topics. system, to get advice, and to report CATION SYSTEM RISKS comprising over 90 ambassadors in more to develop our Ambassadors network to them to report any concerns. suspected cases of misconduct – and can than 80 of our sites around the world. and promote a safe environment for Reinforced Ethics and always remain anonymous. In the past employees to speak up. Renewed Code of Ethics and Policies Compliance Culture As a result of these programs, we have year, we have seen an increased trust ORGANIZATION PROGRAM Our Code of Ethics and Supplier Code of In 2019, we updated our ethics and measured increased commitment from from employees to use these channels to Strengthened Ethical Leadership Conduct set the global standards for our compliance online training portfolio to our employees to acting ethically and raise concerns and potential violations. Our senior leadership team sets the business and activities, underpinned by reflect our new corporate policy and with integrity and have clear indicators When suspected cases are raised, we right tone from the top and continues our values of integrity, respect for others, empower our employees with the right of a thriving ethical culture. take them seriously and fully investigate to reinforce our shared responsibility to and commitment to excellence. knowledge on corruption, anti–trust, data them in a confidential manner and take Last year, we renewed our Ethics and Compliance management system to all act with openness, honesty, and with privacy, conflicts of interest, harassment, Shared Responsibility to Speak Up disciplinary action, up to and including ensure all our actions gravitate around a In alignment with international standards, unwavering integrity. They communicate as well as reporting potential misconduct. Our new Reporting and Non-Retaliation dismissal, where appropriate. state-of-the-art and sustainable system. last year we strengthened both our regularly on the importance of nurturing We also enhanced our ethical leadership Policy deployed in 2019 defines our Code of Ethics and Supplier Code of and growing a strong compliance development program for managers to reporting processes and formalizes our Conduct and updated several corporate awareness culture. Through the Ethics reflect the importance of living our Codes promise to protect employees who come policies to reflect the ever changing forward in good faith with ethical concerns. global environment in which we operate, ADVANCING OUR ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Ethical Culture Solid Foundation Regular Training Strong Organization Engaging Promoted active Refreshed our Provided 10 online Strengthened our Communications involvement and Code of Ethics and training modules to Ethics and Compliance Ensured continuous communications Supplier Code of office employees Ambassadors Network, awareness on ethics from management Conduct, as well worldwide totaling now comprising and compliance such as through as 8 compliance 6 hours of training 90+ Ambassadors and how to speak up, the Ethics and policies to continue and reaching a in nearly 30 countries including through Leadership series to align with 97% completion rate. to provide direct Ethics in Action to ensure there best practices Provided in-person support to employees. series, awareness is the right tone and international training on Code posters and from the top. standards. of Ethics to shop roadshows. floor employees. FLEXITY tram, Strasbourg, France 24 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 25 ➤ COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT HELPING We believe the most effective community programs are those that not only provide real social benefits but also add SOCIETIES value to our business. Our community program is anchored by three themes – education, environmental sustainability PROSPER and stakeholder engagement – as well as the work of our philanthropic arm, the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation AND GROW in Canada. It supports our priority to make a real and positive difference in our local communities. EDUCATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Training for a Bright Future Fighting the COVID-19 Pandemic In Canada, we fostered the next generation of aerospace In early 2020, we deployed resources and capacities professionals by donating a Global 7500 Flight Test to help support public authorities in the fight against Vehicle to Centennial College in Ontario, providing COVID-19. In particular, we designed and produced students with hands-on training experience with a more than 40,000 protective visors, supported technologically advanced, cutting-edge business jet. the manufacturing of close to 30,000 ventilators and We also contributed $150,000 1 for the completion donated thousands of gloves and masks from our of the college’s Landing Gear Research Project and inventories. Our aircraft, including our Global 6500 the extension of the educational program. demonstration aircraft, were also utilized for humanitarian and medical transport worldwide. In India, we co-hosted a nationwide competition for engineering students – Ingenium India 2019 – which covered a wide array of engineering topics and J. ARMAND BOMBARDIER FOUNDATION attracted thousands of applicants from technical programs across the country. Last year’s winners were offered a visit to Bombardier’s site in Derby, UK. Building Capacity through Collaboration Funded from the company’s profits, the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation contributes to the develop­ ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ment of communities and supports organizations that foster capacity building and human dignity in Canada. Beyond financial contribution, the Foundation helps Promoting Environmental Stewardship organizations maintain their relevance by focusing on We continue to foster our long-term partnership the culture of change and their capacity to innovate. with Grupo Ecologico Sierra Gorda IAP, a community organization working to protect the Sierra Gorda Philagora is the Foundation’s capacity building Biosphere Reserve in Mexico. Since 2017, our support program built specifically for the non-profit sector. has been focused on reducing CO2 emissions from our It aims to support organizations in their development operations through a voluntary carbon offset project. and to promote social innovation. This innovating and In 2019, we helped protect 250 hectares, capturing a unique program is two-fold: a series of workshops, total of 1,250 tons of CO2. conferences and events offered to community Centennial College’s Bombardier Centre for organizations, and a coaching cohort for non-profit Helping build a Marine Stop in La Pocatière, Québec, Aerospace and Aviation, Toronto, Canada executive directors to deepen knowledge and where we operate, will offer educational and knowledgecapabilities to help organization reach new heights. sharing activities to visitors on biodiversity and benefits of the local river’s salt marshes. The eco-education Most recently, the Foundation responded to the project will feature a permanent exhibit and a series COVID-19 crisis, helping the most vulnerable members of educational workshops, and provide special access ➤ ➤ ➤ ➤ of our society and funding a medical trial to treat to the marshes. $2.5M invested 200+ community $4.2M donated 350 organizations the infection. in our organizations by the J. Armand reached through communities supported Bombardier Philagora in 2019 Foundation 1 1. In Canadian dollars. 26 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 27 ➤ NOTES ABOUT Bombardier’s 2019 Activity Report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and the International in forward-looking statements. While management considers these assumptions to be reasonable and appropriate based on information currently available, tax matters; and adequacy of insurance coverage), financing risks (such as risks related to liquidity and access to capital markets; retirement benefit plan complete relevant works council consultations, or the occurrence of a material adverse change; alternate sources of funding to replace the anticipated proceeds THIS REPORT Integrated Reporting Council framework. This report there is risk that they may not be accurate. The risk; exposure to credit risk; substantial debt and from the Pending Transactions may not be available assumptions are set out throughout this Activity interest payment requirements; restrictive debt covewhen needed, or on desirable terms; the occurrence shows how Bombardier integrates financial, societal Report (particularly, in the assumptions below the nants and minimum cash levels; financing support of an event which would allow the parties to terminate Forward-looking statements in the MD&A of our for the benefit of certain customers; and reliance on their obligations or agreements in principle; changes and environmental considerations to create sustainable, financial report for the quarter ended March 31, 2020). government support), market risks (such as foreign in the terms of the transactions; the failure by the long-term value. It is part of our ongoing dialogue with For additional information, including with respect to currency fluctuations; changing interest rates; departies to fulfill their obligations and agreements in other assumptions underlying the forward-looking creases in residual values; increases in commodity principle; risks associated with the loss and replacestakeholders. We welcome your feedback and questions statements made in the Activity Report, refer to the prices; and inflation rate fluctuations). For more ment of key management and personnel; and the at csr@bombardier.com. Strategic Priorities and Guidance and forward-looking details, see the Risks and uncertainties sections in impact of the transactions on our relationships with statements sections in the applicable reportable Other in the MD&A of our financial report for the third parties, including potentially resulting in the loss segment in the MD&A of our financial report for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 and in the MD&A of clients, employees, suppliers, business partners or fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Given the impact of our financial report for the fiscal year ended other benefits and goodwill of the business. of the changing circumstances surrounding the December 31, 2019. Any one or more of the foregoing Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of factors COVID-19 pandemic and the related response from factors may be exacerbated by the growing COVID-19 that may affect future growth, results and perforOur 2019 Activity Report addresses Bombardier’s Forward-looking Statements foregoing and the effectiveness of plans and measures the Corporation, governments (federal, provincial outbreak and may have a significantly more severe mance is not exhaustive and undue reliance should performance across all our facilities worldwide This Activity Report includes forward-looking statewe have implemented in response thereto. As it relates and municipal), regulatory authorities, businesses impact on the Corporation’s business, results of not be placed on forward-looking statements. For including our joint ventures. We have included finan­ ments, which may involve, but are not limited to: to previously announced pending transactions, includand customers, there is inherently more uncertainty operations and financial condition than in the absence more details, see the Risks and uncertainties sections cial data for Bombardier Inc. and its subsidiaries statements with respect to our objectives, anticipaing the divestiture of our operations in Belfast and associated with the Corporation’s assumptions as of such outbreak. As a result of the current COVID-19 in Other in the MD&A of our financial report for the as well as updates on the societal, environmental, tions and outlook or guidance in respect of various Morocco, the sale of the CRJ aircraft program, and the compared to prior periods. pandemic, additional factors that could cause actual quarter ended March 31, 2020 and in the MD&A governance and economic issues that are most financial and global metrics and sources of contribusale of the Transportation division to Alstom (collecCertain factors that could cause actual results to differ results to differ materially from those anticipated in of our financial report for the fiscal year ended important to the company and our stakeholders. tion thereto, targets, goals, priorities, market and tively, the “Pending Transactions”), this Activity Report materially from those anticipated in the forwardthe forward-looking statements include, but are not December 31, 2019. Other risks and uncertainties not This report includes quantitative data reflecting our strategies, financial position, market position, capaalso contains forward-looking statements with respect looking statements include, but are not limited to, limited to: risks related to the impact and effects of presently known to us or that we presently believe are performance for the year ended December 31, 2019. bilities, competitive strengths, credit ratings, beliefs, to the expected completion and timing thereof in risks associated with general economic conditions, the COVID-19 pandemic on economic conditions not material could also cause actual results or events Most of the financial information in this report is prospects, plans, expectations, anticipations, estimates accordance with their terms and conditions; the respecrisks associated with our business environment (such and financial markets and the resulting impact on to differ materially from those expressed or implied in extracted from our 2019 Annual Financial Report. and intentions; general economic and business outtive anticipated proceeds and use thereof, as well as as risks associated with “Brexit”, the financial condition our business, operations, capital resources, liquidity, our forward-looking statements. The forward-looking All financial figures are in U.S. dollars unless look, prospects and trends of an industry; expected the anticipated benefits of such transactions and their of the airline industry, business aircraft customers, financial condition, margins, prospects and results; statements set forth herein reflect management’s otherwise stated. For more detailed information demand for products and services; growth strategy; expected impact on our outlook, guidance and targets, and the rail industry; trade policy; increased competiuncertainty regarding the magnitude and length expectations as at the date of this Activity Report and regarding our financial disclosures for the year product development, including projected design, operations, infrastructure, opportunities, financial tion; political instability and force majeure events or of economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 are subject to change after such date. Unless otherwise ended December 31, 2019, please see our 2019 characteristics, capacity or performance; expected or condition, business plan and overall strategy. global climate change), operational risks (such as outbreak and the resulting effects on the demand required by applicable securities laws, we expressly Annual Financial Report. scheduled entry-into-service of products and services, risks related to developing new products and services; environment for our products and services; emergency disclaim any intention, and assume no obligation to Forward-looking statements can generally be identified measures and restrictions imposed by public health orders, deliveries, testing, lead times, certifications development of new business and awarding of new update or revise any forward-looking statements, Data Verification by the use of forward-looking terminology such as authorities or governments, fiscal and monetary policy and project execution in general; competitive position; contracts; book-to-bill ratio and order backlog; the whether as a result of new information, future events The information provided for our environmental “may”, “will”, “shall”, “can”, “expect”, “estimate”, responses by governments and financial institutions; expectations regarding challenging Transportation certification and homologation of products and seror otherwise. The forward-looking statements conindicators is partially verified by an external party. “intend”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “foresee”, “believe”, disruptions to global supply chain, customers, workprojects and the release of working capital therefrom; vices; fixed-price and fixed-term commitments and tained in this Activity Report are expressly qualified Energy and GHG emissions data from our Belfast, “continue”, “maintain” or “align”, the negative of these force, counterparties and third-party service providers; expectations regarding revenue and backlog mix; the production and project execution, including challenges by this cautionary statement. U.K. site is verified by external parties under the EU terms, variations of them or similar terminology. further disruptions to operations, production, project expected impact of the legislative and regulatory Forward-looking statements are presented for the associated with certain Transportation projects; presETS, which includes BSi Assurance UK Ltd., located environment and legal proceedings; strength of capital execution and deliveries; technology, privacy, cyberTrademarks purpose of assisting investors and others in undersures on cash flows and capital expenditures based at Kitemark Court, Davy Avenue, Knowlhill, Milton profile and balance sheet, creditworthiness, available security and reputational risks; and other unforeseen AVENTRA, Bombardier, Challenger, Challenger 350, standing certain key elements of our current objectives, on project-cycle fluctuations and seasonality; execuKeynes, Buckinghamshire, MK5 8PP. In addition, liquidities and capital resources and expected financial adverse events. Challenger 650, CITYFLO, COMPAS, FLEXITY, Global, strategic priorities, expectations, outlook and plans, tion of our strategy, transformation plan, productivity nine Transportation sites (six in Germany, as well requirements; productivity enhancements, operational Global 5500, Global 6500, Global 7500, INNOVIA, and in obtaining a better understanding of our business enhancements, operational efficiencies and restrucWith respect to the Pending Transactions, certain as sites in Austria, Spain and Hungary) also receive efficiencies and restructuring initiatives; expectations l’Opéra, Learjet, Learjet 75 Liberty, MOVIA, Nuage, and anticipated operating environment. Readers turing initiatives; doing business with partners; inadefactors that could cause actual results to differ mateannual external verification of all environmental data and objectives regarding debt repayments and refiSoleil, TWINDEXX and ZEFIRO are trademarks of are cautioned that such information may not be quacy of cash planning and management and project rially from those anticipated in the forward-looking under the EMAS. Two sites in Montréal (Canada) nancing of bank facilities and maturities; expectations Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. appropriate for other purposes. funding; product performance warranty and casualty statements include, but are not limited to: the failure receive external verification for GHG emissions under regarding availability of government assistance proclaim losses; regulatory and legal proceedings; envito satisfy closing conditions, including regulatory the Québec cap-and-trade system for GHG emission grams, compliance with restrictive debt covenants; By their nature, forward-looking statements require ronmental, health and safety risks; dependence on approvals, or delay in completing such transactions allowances (C&T system). expectations regarding the declaration and payment management to make assumptions and are subject to certain customers, contracts and suppliers; supply and, as regards the sale of the Transportation division, ISBN: 978-2-923797-50-2 of dividends on our preferred shares; intentions and important known and unknown risks and uncertainties, chain risks; human resources; reliance on information the failure to enter into definitive documentation or Legal deposit, Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec objectives for our programs, assets and operations; which may cause our actual results in future periods systems; reliance on and protection of intellectual the failure to receive Alstom shareholder approval All rights reserved. and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the to differ materially from forecast results set forth property rights; reputation risks; risk management; in respect of the required capital increase or to © May 2020 Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. AVENTRA train Challenger 350 aircraft cockpit 28 BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT BOMBARDIER INC. 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 29 bombardier.com
