2019 ESG Report More Than Logistics arcb.com Table of Contents 1 Welcome Message 3 About ArcBest 4 Company Profile 6 Awards & Accolades 7 About this Report 10 Governance & Ethics 17 People & Communities 19 Diversity & Demographics 26 Employee Well-Being & Safety 45 Recruiting & Retention 52 Community Involvement 62 Sustainability 72 Looking Ahead Welcome Message Integrity is one of our six core values, and it has been a part of who we are since our founding. Integrity is about doing what is right, even when nobody is watching, and doing the right thing is what a responsible company does. Here at ArcBest, we are committed to conducting our business in a highly ethical manner, and when we come to work each day, we work hard to uphold this ethos. We are intently focused on our mission: To connect and positively impact the world through solving logistics challenges. While I am extremely proud of the culture that we have cultivated, I also recognize that there is always opportunity to do more. We decided to review our environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts to see what we have done well and to identify areas where we can improve. Continued > 1 Our Code of Conduct incorporates and pledges our support they are needed. We know the work we do is important, Environmental, social and corporate governance progress is a for the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, and this extraordinary situation has truly demonstrated that long-term commitment that benefits all of us. labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2019, we importance. We always want to improve how we impact our customers, affirmed our commitment to the United Nations Global how we impact our employees and how we impact our Compact Ten Principles on Human Rights through our While we continue working hard to keep supply chains communities. Ultimately, our goal is to develop a more robust Human Rights Statement of Policy and joined the United moving, our focus remains on the health, welfare and safety ESG program. We are committed to continuously making Nations Global Compact as a participant that was finalized of our employees, and we always seek to prioritize safety improvements in these areas, and we will continue to set the January 6, 2020. regardless of whether it’s on the highways or at our facilities bar high. across North America. We also entered into a partnership with Polaris, a leading nonprofit organization that fights to end human trafficking. We strive to be a responsible corporate citizen in every Judy R. McReynolds With this partnership, we have committed to supporting community in which we operate, and we invest in wellness ArcBest Chairman | President | CEO Polaris’ efforts to disrupt traffickers and restore freedom to and education programs to support our employees’ career survivors. growth and overall well-being. We value diversity and stand firmly against discrimination of any kind. In 2019 and 2020, In this report, you can read more about these actions we were proud to be recognized on the Top 500 List of Best and other actions we have taken regarding sustainability, Employers for Diversity, published by Forbes in partnership community involvement and employee well-being, and with Statista. governance and ethics. I want to say “Thank You!” to all of our employees. Our team During creation of this report, we faced the challenges members are at the heart of our values-driven culture, and that came with the COVID-19 pandemic. Our company has I am inspired by the way they exemplify our values and live continued to play a key role of ensuring essential goods are out our vision — We’ll Find A Way — to help our customers moved across the country and available when and where every day. 2 About ArcBest ArcBest® is a leading logistics provider with almost 100 years Our customers trust us to collaborate with them daily to fulfill Our Vision: We’ll Find A Way of transportation and supply chain experience. Our team their most complex and demanding supply chain needs with of creative problem solvers focuses on understanding our creative solutions and excellent service. customers’ products and services, and they design solutions Our Values-Driven Culture that simplify processes, improve productivity and grow Our stakeholders expect us to operate responsibly and with business. integrity so that we are well positioned to live out our mission • Creativity — We create solutions of positively impacting the world. • Integrity — We do the right thing Our mission is clear: • Collaboration — We work together We realize business success going forward is dependent on • Growth — We grow our people and our business To connect and positively impact the world through solving our contribution to corporate citizenship, and we want to be • Excellence — We exceed expectations logistics challenges. This mission guides how we take care of known as a company who cares — about sustainability, about • Wellness — We embrace total health our people, how we interact with our customers and how we our people and communities, and about ethical conduct. aim to help create a better world. Our employees rely on us to provide the tools they need to grow professionally and the health initiatives they need to be well. 3 Company Profile • Founded 1923 • 13,000 employees • $3 billion 2019 revenue • 240+ asset-based North American service centers • 95+ years of transportation and logistics experience • 27,000+ owned and operated assets (tractors, trailers and other vehicles) • 35,000+ approved contract carriers • >98% coverage of the United States 4 Truckload Premium Supply Chain Product Logistics Optimization Launch Household FPO Moving LTL Transportation Freight Final Retail Mile Logistics Managed Transportation & Logistics FPO Services Warehousing & Distribution Time Critical International & Expedite Shipping Trade Show Shipping Fleet Maintenance 5 Awards & Accolades Fort Smith Regional Chamber of Commerce • Training magazine 2020 Top 125 ranking for the 11th • 2019 SmartWay High Performer • SmartWay Transport Partner since 2006 consecutive year for professional development • Seven-time winner of the American Trucking Associations' • 2019 Inaugural Western Arkansas Business of the Year Award President’s Trophy • LEED Silver Certification in 2018 by the U.S. Green Building • Eight-time winner of the American Trucking Associations' Council (corporate headquarters) Excellence in Security Award • 2019 Inbound Logistics Green 75 Supply Chain Partner • 2020 America’s Best-In-State Employers by Forbes and • Seven-time winner of the American Trucking Associations' • SmartWay® Transport Partner since 2018 Statista Inc. Excellence in Claims & Loss Prevention Award • 2019 and 2020 Great Supply Chain Partner by • 2020 Top 10 Women in Logistics by Global Trade • Nine-time winner of the Quest for Quality Award by SupplyChainBrain Magazine (ArcBest Chairman, President and CEO Judy R. Logistics Management magazine • 2019 and 2020 Forbes Top 500 List of Best Employers for McReynolds) • FreightCenter 2019 Diamond Partner of the Year Diversity • 2019 Most Influential Corporate Board Directors by Women • Two-time Great Supply Chain Partner by SupplyChainBrain • Women in Trucking Association’s 2019 Distinguished Inc. (ArcBest Chairman, President and CEO Judy R. Woman in Logistics Award (ArcBest Chairman, President McReynolds) and CEO Judy R. McReynolds) • 2015, 2017 and 2019 Women’s Forum of New York • SmartWay Transport Partner since 2008 recognition for achieving at least 30% female representation • Six-time winner of the Quest for Quality Award by Logistics on our Board of Directors • EPA SmartWay Excellence Award in 2014, 2018, 2019 and Management magazine • 2020 Women on Boards Winning “W” Company for having 2020 • Two-time winner of the National Expedited Carrier of more than 20% of board seats held by women • Nine-time winner of the Inbound Logistics Green 75 Supply the Year award by The National Shippers Strategic • 2016, 2017 and 2019 Healthy Workplace Award from the Chain Partner Transportation Council (NASSTRAC) 6 About essential supplies to communities, hospitals and businesses, and will continue to do so to help fight the spread of COVID-19. this Report Though this is the biggest crisis we’ve faced, it’s not the first. We’re proud of the resiliency and determination our people have shown while adjusting to a new normal, and we’ve taken the As a company with long-term success, we know the necessary steps to emerge from this pandemic stronger and Here are some of our accomplishments importance of being good stewards and taking care of our more united than before. and achievements from 2019: employees, communities and the world around us. We’ve reassessed our approach to corporate social responsibility Details about how we’ve responded to COVID-19 will be featured • ABF Freight LTL fleet was named a 2019 and determined the need to focus on developing ESG in our 2020 ESG Report. Until then, read this statement to learn SmartWay High Performer strategies. This report aims to provide additional information more. • We donated more than $930,000 and transparency to our stakeholders, customers and to charity business partners by communicating our progress on ESG • We gave more than $53,000 to topics. employees for disaster relief • We achieved more than 30% female representation on our Board of Directors Our Response to COVID-19 • We partnered with Polaris to support the fight to end human trafficking Throughout the creation of this report, the coronavirus pandemic has posed difficult challenges with unprecedented impact on our world. Our primary focus has been the health and safety of our employees and customers while also ensuring supply chains run without interruption. We’ve played a critical role in delivering 7 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals call on companies to take action on specific issues our world faces today — climate change, environmental degradation, inequality, poverty, peace and justice. They also provide guidance on where we can make United Nations the greatest impact. We’ll consider the UN SDGs, along with other reporting frameworks, in our ongoing ESG assessment and strategy development. Global Compact Participant In 2019, ArcBest began the process of joining the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) , and our partnership was finalized January 6, 2020. We are excited to join more than 11,000 other companies in continuing to develop responsible business practices to drive powerful change in the world and in our industry. Learn more about our UNGC pledge, and read our letter of commitment. 8 External Reporting (and where they can improve) in the following categories: environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable and Rating procurement. United Nations Global Compact The UNGC works to create a better world through uniting We report ESG efforts and initiatives to the following businesses and encouraging them to align their operations organizations: and strategies with 10 principles that cover human rights, labor, anti-corruption and the environment. Carbon Disclosure Project® (CDP) ArcBest also receives ratings from: The CDP runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) environmental impacts. Through an annual reporting process, the CDP measures and benchmarks a company’s ISS is a leader in corporate governance and responsible progress and encourages companies to take actions that investment practices, providing high-quality data, analytics, can improve their environmental leadership. and insight that empower investors and companies to build Positively impact for long-term and sustainable growth. the world EcoVadis EcoVadis is a global sustainability rating agency that delivers corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessments to show companies their current progress 9 Governance & Ethics 10 “ Corporate governance is the framework that guides the conduct of the board of directors and management of an organization. It lays the foundation for ethical business ” practices and good corporate citizenship. At ArcBest, our approach to governance is grounded in honesty, transparency and a commitment to doing it right – that’s why Integrity is my favorite of our core values. Pamela Roberts Associate General Counsel 11 Integrity Statement — We Do the Right Thing We believe in doing the right thing the first time and every time. This mindset is woven into our company culture and is a pillar of our values. The ArcBest Code of Conduct (CoC) is our written commitment to establishing effective corporate governance, and it extends to all Board of Directors, officers, employees, representatives, agents, subcontractors and vendors of the Company. Our Supplier Code of Conduct states our expectations of conduct for our carrier network, company vendors and other service providers, so they can understand and behave consistently with our responsible business practices. Both Codes of Conduct also demonstrate our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In addition to our Codes of Conduct, ArcBest has many corporate governance policies in place — including our Anti-trust Laws Compliance Policy and our Anti-Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation Policy — to ensure ethical business performance. 12 Annual Training Each year, all ArcBest employees are required to complete Code of Conduct training, which outlines expectations within and outside of the workplace. Reporting Misconduct We encourage employees to speak up for what is right without fear of retaliation. Our leadership team wants to know any time an employee believes someone is violating our Code of Conduct in any way. Employees know they can talk about any concerns with their supervisors, report directly or indirectly to our HR Compliance & Inclusion group, or utilize “EthicsPoint” — an anonymous Ethics & Reporting Hotline available 24/7/365. Vendors, suppliers and service providers doing business with ArcBest or its subsidiaries are encouraged to report questionable, illegal or unethical behavior through the channels outlined in our Code of Conduct. 13 Board of Our primary committees are: Directors • Compensation Committee — Responsible for reviewing and approving executive management compensation, among other duties • Audit Committee — Responsible for overseeing the Our Board of Directors leads and upholds ArcBest Company’s financial reports, systems of internal corporate governance, aiming to drive business forward controls, internal auditing process and compliance by guiding us to be the logistics provider, employer and with legal and regulatory requirements, among other investment of choice in our industry. They are led by duties Chairman, President and CEO Judy R. McReynolds and • Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee consist of eight other members independent of ArcBest. — Responsible for identifying individuals qualified to become Directors, overseeing CEO succession planning, recommending changes to the Board and reviewing relevant ESG issues, among other duties 14 The ESG Committee Our ESG Committee was formally established in 2020 under the direction of the Nominating/ Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Its purpose is to provide guidance to the Company and its Board of Directors on matters relating to corporate citizenship, and to oversee and make recommendations concerning the Company’s ESG initiatives, policies and practices relating to safety and health, environmental sustainability, social concerns, and other public issues. We will continue sharing ESG Committee progress in future reports. 15 Cybersecurity We take proactive measures to protect our computer systems, network and data from all forms of cyber threats, so that our customers, suppliers and others with whom we interact feel confident when sharing information during business interactions. As part of our commitment to cybersecurity, we require employees to complete annual training on information security and the policies we have in place. 16 People & Communities 17 “ One of my favorite ArcBest values is “growth. It reminds us that we grow our people and our business, and I’m very thankful for our ” commitment to our employees. We make large investments in our many learning opportunities and wellness initiatives, and I enjoy seeing team members learn, grow and advance as we serve our customers and community with excellence. Jason Turner Vice President Talent and Growth Initiatives 18 Diversity & Demographics ArcBest is proud to celebrate diversity and provide equal opportunities for each of our 13,000 employees. Embracing different backgrounds and experiences helps us create an environment in which our employees want to belong, and it helps us better serve our customers around the globe. We are pleased to have ranked on Forbes’ Top 500 List of Best Employers for Diversity and are committed to assessing, developing and measuring the success of our diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) strategy with guidance from a DEI consulting firm. 19 2019 Workforce We are also working to develop our Diversity, Equity and ” Inclusion Policy, reviewing our training, and seeking further Demographics opportunities to emphasize inclusion and bystander “ Breakdown of Ethnicity and Race Totals: empowerment to prevent or stop discrimination when it Asian 70 2% occurs. Most importantly, we are creating opportunities to Black 103 3% listen and learn. Hispanic 156 5% We started identifying our role in corporate social American Indian/Alaska Native 22 1% responsibility, including diversity, equity and inclusion, and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 1 <1% defining what those mean within our mission over a year ago. We realize we have work to do in this area — as you 2 or more race 31 1% will see in the data presented here. In some cases, our White 2803 88% representation is underreported, and, in others, we simply Dana Deason Senior Manager fall short in representing the diverse makeup of our nation. HR Compliance & Inclusion In this report, we re-establish our commitment to work with Breakdown of Ethnicity and Race Totals: a renewed, intentional focus on diversity and inclusion. To Asian 112 1% assist us in achieving our goal of developing a program that becomes a distinct but interwoven piece of our Black 1942 15% “ArcBest” data referenced in this table is comprised of employee data cultural DNA, we recently partnered with a consultant who for ArcBest II, Inc. “ABF” data referenced in this table is comprised Hispanic 1481 11% specializes in the areas of diversity, equity and inclusion. of employee data for ABF Freight System, Inc. ArcBest II, Inc. and American Indian/Alaska Native 66 <1% ABF Freight System, Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 44 <1% ArcBest Corporation. The majority of ArcBest II employees report to our headquarters in Fort Smith, Arkansas. ABF Freight personnel are 2 or more race 202 2% employed at one of 240 service centers across North America. White 9077 70% 20 Diversity Training As we continue to work toward a more inclusive organization, we believe in educating our people about the importance of diversity. Our annual Code of Conduct training covers our anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policies, and every employee is required to participate. Through our talent management platform, employees can access a variety of online courses that cover topics such as Working Well with Everyone, The Power of Inclusion, Workplace Diversity and Diversity for Leaders. 21 Women at ArcBest In a traditionally male-dominated industry, we’re committed to developing our female workforce — in the corporate environment and in the field — so they have an equal opportunity to advance their careers. 2019 Stats: 22% 30% 27% 33% 77% of expedite fleet of ArcBest of ArcBest executives of our Board of of our ESG Committee drivers are female supervisors are female are female Directors are female members are female 22 Awards • Judy R. McReynolds, ArcBest Chairman, President and CEO, won the Women In Trucking Association’s 2019 Distinguished Woman in Logistics Award. • We were recognized by the Women’s Forum of New York in 2019 (also in 2017 and 2015) for achieving at least 30% female representation on our Board of Directors. • We have been designated a 2020 Women on Boards Winning “W” Company for having more than 20% of board seats held by women. • Judy. R. McReynolds, ArcBest Chairman, President and CEO, was named to the list of the 2020 Top 10 Women In Logistics by Global Trade Magazine. 23 Employee Profile In March 2019, Nok Clark was promoted to Publications Manager in our Customer Experience department. Nok began her career with ArcBest in 2003 as a coordinator in Customized Solutions. She continued to develop her skill set and knowledge of the organization to advance her career and fill roles such “ ” as corporate accounts analyst, sales representative and supervisor of local sales support. She’s an exemplary team member who embodies our core values and represents our brand well. I love working at ArcBest and have learned many new aspects about the company throughout my career. There’s always a challenge with every position, but ArcBest has great leaders who help provide guidance and support along the way. Nok Clark Publications Manager Customer Experience 24 “ Military Programs earn between $66,000 to $85,000 per year, along with health insurance and pension benefits. We have hired over 500 drivers through the TMAP program. At ArcBest and ABF Freight, we strive to hire great candidates who exemplify our We believe those who fought to protect our country shouldn’t Soldiers for Life – Transition Assistance Program values. This partnership with the U.S. Army have to struggle to find a job to support themselves and their (SFL – TAP) is a way to reach possible candidates families after completing their time in the military. Through who display the leadership skills and ” partnerships with three military programs, we help service In 2018, ABF Freight partnered with the U.S. Army to train professional standards we are seeking. As men and women transition back into a civilian lifestyle with military members for our Operations Supervisor role, which a veteran who understands the transition the opportunity to have an established, successful career. has an average starting salary of $63,000. As of 2019, the from the Army to the civilian workforce, In 2019, 5% of ABF employees were veterans, and we are Operations Supervisor position is officially part of the Army I’m proud that we are partnering with working on programs to continue to increase this number. Career Skills Program at Fort Bragg in North Carolina, and we the PaYS program. are currently developing the curriculum with the goal to begin Teamsters Military Assistance Program the end of 2020. (TMAP) U.S. Army Partnership for Youth Success Program Tim Thorne ABF Freight partners with the International Brotherhood (PaYS) President of Teamsters to offer military members at Fort Carson in ABF Freight Colorado and Fort Riley in Kansas the ability to participate in On May 20, 2019, ABF Freight President Tim Thorne signed a TMAP. During this six-week program, held at each installation, memorandum of agreement to solidify our partnership with ABF Freight instructors (many of whom are veterans) teach the U.S. Army Partnership for Youth Success (PaYS) program. courses that guide active-duty service members into obtaining PaYS connects first-term regular Army and Army Reserve a Class A CDL. We host a graduation ceremony for soldiers soldiers to the civilian workforce by providing two guaranteed who complete the training and offer them a full-time driving job interviews and possible employment after the Army. position at an ABF Freight service center where they can 25 Employee Well-Being Our people are the heart of our organization and are the reason we’ve been in business for nearly 100 years. We’re committed to investing in and supporting their overall well-being so they can achieve a healthier, happier and more successful life. Through wellness programs, safety initiatives, professional and personal development, and feedback channels, we encourage our employees to be their best selves at work and at home. 26 Embracing supplemental life insurance, identity theft protection and legal advice from outside Total Wellness counsel. Choice Wellness Program Our voluntary wellness program is available We believe that healthy employees are to employees enrolled in our Choice Benefits engaged employees. That’s why wellness medical plan and is designed to help them is one of our six core values — it’s a part stay healthy, feel secure and maintain a of our culture and a part of who we are as positive work/life balance. Those who a company. Our wellness value means we participate and complete yearly requirements embrace total health, focusing on four areas benefit from reduced premiums, deductibles of well-being: physical, financial, social and Health Programs & Services • Naturally Slim® (NS) is a 10-week and out-of-pocket expenses. emotional. Last year, we were honored to mindful eating program designed to help receive the 2019 Healthy Workplace Award We have a variety of programs and services in participants lose weight, reduce risk The program is based on points and after from the Fort Smith Regional Chamber of place to assist employees and their families for metabolic syndrome and improve employees complete the requirements to Commerce. Here are many of the wellness on their path to embracing total health: their overall health. We offer it several reach the point threshold for their reduced initiatives employees have access to: times throughout the year free of charge premiums, they can use leftover points • Castlight is our digital health platform. to employees, their spouses and adult to purchase gift cards and enter sweepstakes Employee Benefits Introduced in 2018, it’s personalized for dependent children. drawings for significant prizes. each employee to house their wellness All eligible employees and their families have information, provide options for in-network access to medical, dental, vision, prescription care and keep track of Choice Wellness drug, and disability coverage, along with requirements. 27 Naturally Slim Success Story Marc Weidner, vice president sales – east, participated in Naturally Slim after a health scare put him in the emergency room. He decided NS was “ ” a good option for him because the program’s principles are based on allowing you to eat what you want, just in a different way. Marc lost 87 pounds in 18 months and feels more energetic in all aspects of life. The ArcBest wellness initiative really enforces our organization's investment into the entire person — in how they perform both inside and outside of work. And that really reinforces our overall strategy of taking care of the people who make our business operate. I feel more energetic, and I feel better not only about the physical results but because I feel like I’ve invested in myself and my family. Marc Weidner Vice President Sales East 28 2nd M.D.® Premise Health® ArcBest Fitness Center 2nd M.D.® is a service that provides expert second opinions Premise Health® is an employer-sponsored clinic for ArcBest Our fitness center at our Fort Smith headquarters is available from a network of more than 350 board-certified doctors. employees located in Fort Smith, with additional locations for use before work, during breaks and after work. The fitness We provide this service free of charge to employees who in Arkansas and Oklahoma. The clinic provides free on-site center is equipped with treadmills, ellipticals, stationary are enrolled in our Choice Benefits medical plan, and their health services to employees and a low copay for covered bikes and weights, and we also offer classes including yoga, spouses, children and parents, even if they are not covered family members. strengthening and toning, and dance fitness. under our health plan. This allows us to assist employees in stressful situations and provide help when it comes to Hines® and Associates Health discounts physical, emotional and financial wellness. Hines® and Associates is a free program that gives employees Health discounts are available when purchasing exercise Doctor on Demand access to Certified Health Education Specialists (CHES®) and equipment from select manufacturers and for memberships American Council on Exercise (ACE®) professionals to help to several gyms across the country. Doctor on Demand is a telemedicine service that connects achieve their best wellness lifestyle. It also offers access to our employees with doctors, psychologists and psychiatrists registered nurses who specialize in helping manage diabetes, right from their devices 24/7/365. Through live video, high blood pressure, weight loss and chronic diseases. doctors can perform exams, review symptoms and prescribe medications to help treat minor illnesses or manage specific Wellness Holiday conditions. Behavioral health services are also available for full mental wellbeing support, from talk therapy to medication Employees who participate in the Choice Wellness Program management. Apart from a copay, the service is free to use. and meet the annual requirements are awarded one Wellness Holiday per year, in addition to their vacation, holidays and personal time off. 29 Dance Fitness Fun “ ” Dance fitness is led by employee Brittney Lee, content specialist, who combines easy-to-follow moves, exciting music and interval training for a full body workout. Moves are designed to improve cardio, strength and balance. With fast-paced lifestyles and technology conveniences, now more than ever, we must be intentional with our level of physical activity. Dance fitness is a fun and energetic workout that not only helps me get my steps in each day but also improves my focus at work and helps relieve stress. I enjoy the team support, and I love how dynamic the instructor is. Daysi Rosales Marketing Campaign & CX Project Lead 30 2019 Wellness Events Wellness Champions ArcBest Wellness Champions are employees across the organization who Every year, we promote wellness through a variety of events: guide and encourage coworkers going through their own health journeys. • Annual Wellness Challenge. In 2019, we Way of Fort Smith Area. The health fair hosted a team step challenge. Employees provides valuable information about our formed groups of 6-8 people and earned benefit vendors, life insurance plans, points for their team based on their nutrition counseling, mammograms and daily step count. More than 186 teams retirement. Other 2019 participated, walking over 265 million Wellness Events Include: steps — which is equivalent to walking • Diabetic Fair. In 2019, we held our first around the globe more than 5 times! on-site diabetic fair which consisted • On-site bloodmobile donations to the Arkansas Blood Institute of an interactive presentation from • First Friday Fruit • Annual 5K & Health Fair. Every year in our Premise Health physician Dr. • ArcBest Cycling Club October, we host a 5K race and health Thomas Bonin, M.D., and a cooking • On-site mobile mammograms fair as part of ArcBest Family Day. In demonstration for healthy, diabetic• Free on-site flu shots 2019, over 100 employees (including friendly snacks. A Hines Health coach • Free on-site biometric screenings for Fort Smith employees family members) participated in the 5K, was also present for one-on-one • Wellness Week sponsored by the Fort Smith Regional Chamber of Commerce which raised over $10,000 for the United discussions. 31 Success Story “” Bobby Terrill changed his views on wellness six years ago after realizing he wasn’t prioritizing his health. In early 2014, I came to realize that I was unhealthy. I was overweight, had bad habits and was pushing 260 pounds when most of my life I had always been around 190. I was uncomfortable in my own skin. With the positive example his supervisor set, Bobby became interested in making “ ” changes to his eating habits and exercise routine. He now enjoys running 5Ks, halfand full-marathons and overall, lives a healthier lifestyle. Being with ArcBest, I was so excited to have Wellness as one of our core values. Seeing that our company truly wants its employees to be healthy and happy meant a lot to me. I’ve never seen a company with such an emphasis on wellness in such a positive way and provide us with tools to help everyone achieve their own personal goals. Bobby Terrill Truckload District Sales Manager 32 “ ” Driver My motto is ‘Don’t eat anything out of a bag. Eat clean.’ I’ll pack anything that’s natural — fruits, vegetables and meats Wellness that aren’t processed, and I’ll drink a lot of water. Staying hydrated is a big thing. A lot of drivers tend to drink soda instead of water. But as a truck driver, staying hydrated with Ralph Garcia has been an ABF Freight road driver for water is so important to keep our organs from drying up. 28 years. As a professional truck driver, he knows the “ “ ” importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle while Overall, Ralph enjoys focusing on wellness and encouraging on the road. other drivers to do the same. It’s hard for a driver to find time to get exercise, but with Exercising and eating right makes me feel better, and it makes all the new regulations around health and fitness, many me more alert on the road. I hardly miss work because I drivers have to pay attention to their weight and health. stay healthy, and it makes me a better husband to my wife, ” I’ve always been involved in sports and athletics, so I’ve because I have enough energy to do things with her when I’m ingrained exercise into my routine. I always exercise home. Overall, wellness makes me a better person. before I leave the house, and I’ll stop driving every two hours for about five minutes to run in place or walk. It just takes discipline. Eating right is also essential. Ralph typically packs his Ralph Garcia lunches with healthy foods and ensures he drinks plenty ABF Freight Road Driver of water. 33 Q&A with Shannon Fazikas Q: Why is embracing total wellness important to you? A: It’s important to embrace total wellness for your mind and body to be well. If you disconnect and do something that is good for your overall health, you are less stressed. Going for a walk or a run puts my mind at ease! Q: How do you stay active? A: I love to run, play catch, play basketball, swim and hike with my family. Q: How do you feel about wellness being a company value? A: I think it’s great! ArcBest thinks about our overall health and that speaks to the type of company they are. They invest in and want their people to be happy and healthy. Q: How do you promote wellness in the workplace? A: I jump on conference calls and discuss wellness with coworkers and ask how everyone is incorporating it into their life. I stress how important it is to have a healthy mind. Shannon Fazikas Director Enterprise Sales 34 Financial Wellness We promote financial wellness through tools and programs that can help employees lower personal debt and save for their futures. Transamerica® Gradifi® Tuition Reimbursement Program We partner with Transamerica Corporation to provide our We formed a new partnership in 2019 with Gradifi which We believe everyone should have the option to achieve a employees an easy, secure way to save for life after provides employees access to expert independent counselors degree without going into substantial debt. Through our tuition retirement. As a company, we’ll match 50% on the first 6% at American Student Assistance to help them take control of reimbursement program, we reimburse 50% of the tuition and contributed to the 401(k), and employees can contribute student loan debt. fees incurred by our employees. In 2019, approximately 120 1%-69% of their eligible pay. employees requested reimbursement, and we paid out over $290,000. 35 Workplace Safety Creating a workplace where everyone feels safe is at the forefront of our business decisions and a responsibility we take seriously. The policies we have in place, including our anti-discrimination, harassment and retaliation policy, provide detailed protocols for the health, safety and welfare of all employees. We also encourage and expect our employees to contribute to a safe working environment at all locations through compliance and reporting. 36 2019 Safety Initiatives Other ways we promote safety: • Everbridge is our emergency communications system that allows • Employees are required to complete annual safety training employees to receive timely information via text, push notification on the • All new hires are required to complete workplace violence training during their Everbridge app, email or phone call in the event of an emergency. first week • Nearly 140 online training modules are available covering a variety of safety • Our Stay Safe initiative is focused on ensuring every member of our team topics gets home safely every day. The Risk Management team oversees this • First-aid kits are kept in all work rooms, fitness centers, and shipping and program and sends out monthly updates that encourage employees to receiving areas perform their jobs safely and think about their actions whether they are • Automated external defibrillators (AEDs) are located near the main elevators moving freight, driving or working in an office. We allowed a full year of the on every floor of our Fort Smith locations Stay Safe initiative to be in place before we began evaluating its impact. • A designated group of employees are trained in first aid, CPR and AED As of the date this report is published, we're experiencing, on average, a processes 25% reduction in injuries per month.* • All employees have access to our Emergency Action Plan, which includes an emergency contact list and procedures for what to do in case of medical • We partnered with a private security training group to help raise emergencies, fires, tornadoes, earthquakes, workplace violence and other awareness about workplace violence. They also conducted a crime safety threats prevention analysis of our campuses and hosted on-site training events. *Average reduction in injuries per month June 2020 October 2020 37 Safety ABF Freight & Security Safety Awards The ABF fleet demonstrates our commitment to safety: As a transportation company, safety is critical. We’re committed to protecting our customers' freight and • The only seven-time winner of the American Trucking ensuring that our employees work in a safe and Associations' President’s Trophy secure environment. We pride ourselves on our safety • Eight-time winner of the American Trucking procedures and guidelines and commend each driver for Associations' Excellence in Security Award their professionalism behind the wheel and devotion to • The only seven-time winner of the American Trucking safety on and off the road. Associations' Excellence in Claims & Loss Prevention Award • 2019 and 2020 Quest for Quality Award • 79% of drivers earned company awards for safety in 2019 38 Driver & Safety ELD Training Training • All service center employees, including drivers, dock In 2019, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration workers, supervisors, shop, office and sales personnel are began strictly enforcing the electronic logging device (ELD) required to complete training on proper freight handling mandate which requires most commercial truck drivers to log techniques and obtain certification for handling hazardous their hours of service electronically. The ELD law is one of the materials. industry’s biggest regulatory changes in the last 40 years, and • Before drivers are certified to operate ABF Freight through it, the federal government aims to create a safer work equipment, they must complete our “Road Test Orientation environment for drivers and the general public. and Training” course, pass a written exam and successfully complete a road test. We require all drivers to complete While our drivers logged their hours electronically prior to the yearly training and recertification. mandate, we understand the importance of continual training • Before any employees can operate a forklift, they must be for drivers to stay up to date on changes and additions to certified. ArcBest has Regional Managers of Safety and the law. In 2019, our training team conducted 12 regional Security across the nation who help train and certify these workshops for ABF Freight service center managers. The employees. six-hour class consisted of technical presentations, hands-on • Service centers conduct required monthly safety meetings exercises and live demonstrations of the ELD system. The to train staff on safety topics such as forklift safety, hazmat service center managers then deployed the training to our security, proper lifting procedures and the dangers of heat drivers with great success: 4,000 employees across the nation stress. were trained on ELDs in eight weeks. 39 2018-2019 2019 “” ABF Freight ABF Freight Road Team It’s an honor and a pleasure to serve the Load Team company and the trucking industry, and to promote safety and be a mentor to Members of the ABF Freight Road Team serve two-year terms others. Thanks to the Road Team, I’ve The ABF Freight Load Team is an elite group of freightas ambassadors for the company and may speak at civic and established new friendships and had handling professionals from service centers throughout fraternal organization events, school assemblies and career great experiences. It’s been an awesome North America. Load Team members are selected based fairs about driving safety and sharing the road with trucks. thing to be part of that group. on their safety records, involvement in the Quality Process, To be eligible for our Road Team, ABF drivers must have at personal integrity and ability to load trailers in an optimal least 10 years of driving experience and an exemplary driving fashion. record. Sammy Brewster Driver ABF Freight 40 2019-2020 America’s Road Team In 2019, three ABF drivers were named to the American Trucking Associations’ America’s Road Team — a national public outreach program led by a small group of professional truck drivers who share superior driving skills, remarkable safety records and a strong desire to spread the word about safety on the highway. ABF is proud of the following three drivers who were chosen as captains: Scott Davis of Missouri has been a Sammy Brewster of Georgia has been a Todd Wilemon of Mississippi has been a professional driver for 43 years, the last 18 professional driver for 29 years, the last 12 professional driver for 35 years, the last 26 with ABF Freight. He has driven over 4.4 with ABF Freight. He has driven over 400,000 with ABF Freight. He has driven over 2.75 million accident-free miles. accident-free miles. million accident-free miles. 41 Highway Angels Spotlight 2019 Highway Angels ABF driver Robert “Bob” Digrazia was traveling near our service center in Sarasota, Florida when he approached a car with its driver-side door panel on fire and a young female driver The Truckload Carriers Association’s Highway AngelSM program has been still inside. Bob acted quickly — he used his tractor’s fire extinguisher to put out the flames, recognizing professional truck drivers since 1997 for their courageous and began directing traffic and provided a safe place for the young driver to wait until emergency kind acts on North America’s roadways. Many of America’s drivers go out of responders arrived. their way to help motorists in simple inconveniences and even life-threatening situations. Eight ABF drivers were Highway Angel recipients in 2019. ABF driver Donald Wood came across a motorist whose pickup was stuck in heavy snowfall, and he spent more than an hour shoveling the impacted snow around the tires in 30-degree weather. The motorist contacted ABF to make us aware of how grateful he was that Donald saved him during a snowstorm. 42 Driver Safety Spotlight Tony Spero has been an ABF Freight city driver for 31 years. In March 2018, he reached 60,000 consecutive hours of accident-free driving and earned the Platinum Safe Driving Award (equivalent to 4 million miles). Tony also earned a commemorative plaque for 25 years of safety performance and a 30-Year Safe Drive Ring for 30 years of accident-free driving. “” Tony is also an 18-time winner at the Connecticut Truck Driving Championship and a 2-time winner at the National Truck Driving Championships, which further speaks to his impeccable safety record. I never let the actions of another driver affect my composure, and I’m constantly aware of my surroundings. I never drive aggressively, and I strive to have no accidents. Tony Spero Driver ABF Freight 43 Panther Premium Logistics Safety Highlights Safety measures and policies also apply to all independent contractors, owneroperators and fleet owners in our Panther fleet. In addition to compliance training required by the FMCSA, we’ve developed safety processes that allow us to monitor vehicle compliance and contractor safety performance. We’ve implemented Contractor Safety Awareness and Safety Focus programs to heighten awareness, promote safe driving behaviors, and reduce violations and accidents. 44 Recruiting Employee Development and Retention Growth is a crucial organizational value that states “We grow our people and our business.” This value serves as a call to action for us to provide continued learning and development opportunities for employees at every level of our organization. We want to ensure everyone has access to Recruitment the training they need to do their job successfully and achieve their career aspirations. We believe our people are the best in the industry, and our Talent Management team is dedicated to recruiting the right individuals for every position. Through a variety of recruiting efforts at job fairs and by utilizing platforms like LinkedIn, we We’re pleased to rank among Training magazine’s seek candidates who express our core values and can make 2019 Top 125 for the 11th consecutive year for the greatest impact on our customers and business. professional development. We placed 19th in 2019 and 12th in 2020. Over 6,200 team We also strive to improve our application, interview and members completed 1,100+ instructor-led onboarding processes so that we continue to attract reliable courses and 55,000+ online courses. employees and aspiring leaders. In 2019, we received nearly 60,000 job applications, conducted close to 10,000 interviews and hired 2,452 people. 45 ArcBest University Goals & (ArcBest U) Development Planning ArcBest University is our comprehensive learning program To effectively grow our people and our company, the Employee for employees including web-based, classroom and virtual Experience team has focused on working closely with each learning options. business unit to customize a performance management Our Progress Toward system that rates a person’s performance on role-specific Web-based competencies, yearly goals and ArcBest values. Through Reimagining Training annual reviews, career counseling sessions, individual Performance Reviews development plans and consistent check-ins with direct Elevate is our online learning portal that offers employees supervisors, employees are better positioned to create their hundreds of courses on soft and technical skills. Training own paths to success. • By the end of 2019, we defined specific topics include office software programs, emotional competencies for all roles intelligence, social styles, how to handle difficult conversations and much more. • By the end of 2020, annual performance review processes will be determined for all Instructor-led roles Training • By January 2021, all teams will be using the We taught over 1,100 classes in 2019 covering topics like job new review process development, skills and computer program training, emotional intelligence and leadership development. Instructor-led training is offered in a classroom and virtually. 46 Leadership Highlights • The average tenure of a director is 20 years “ • 167 employees were promoted to first-time leadership roles in 2019 ArcBest Leadership created by our Talent Management team, and management skills. In addition to I chose to get my MBA through the ArcBest Academy and participants must be nominated by the online curriculum, they’ll also attend program because I wanted to improve my directors and senior leadership. The series is two management training classes at our leadership and people management skills The Leadership Academy (LA) is designed designed for all current leaders to gain a base headquarters. The online curriculum is also while networking with people within the for high-potential employees (nominated knowledge of leadership and management available for employees who aspire for a company. Prior to starting the program, I through an in-depth process) who have best practices, but is also a great course supervisory role. had a minor interest in Human Resources. ” demonstrated the qualities of being a future for up-and-coming leaders who may not yet The classes provided instilled a passion leader in our organization. The training have a team. Courses include Building Trust, MBA for HR and people. Now, I work on our consists of three, two-day training sessions Employee Development, Communications Program Talent Management team as an Employee focused on the four levels of leadership – and Progressive Discipline. To date, 568 Experience Project Manager and hope to Self, Team, Organizational and Community. employees have participated in the ArcBest Through our partnership with Harding eventually lead a team of HR professionals. LA classes are held annually from August to leadership series. University, we offer on-site and virtual classes November and involve 32 employees. Over to employees wanting to pursue a Master 150 employees have graduated from the LA. New Supervisor of Business Administration degree. The Training Program program takes about two years to complete, ArcBest Leadership and employees receive a 15% discount per Mindy Smith Series To help new supervisors and managers credit hour and become eligible for our tuition Project Manager succeed, we provide in-house training reimbursement program — allowing them to Employee Experience Leadership Series is a 10-part training course modules that teach basic leadership obtain their MBA for less than $10,000. 47 Driver Development Program To overcome the driver shortage that continues to affect our industry, we develop drivers through our Driver Development Program. This program is a partnership with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters that allows us to hire potential drivers, even those without commercial driving experience or a CDL, and train them in-house. Program participants receive six weeks of paid training at a service center. At the end of the six weeks, the trainee receives a Class-A CDL with all endorsements and is offered a full-time position. New Initiative: Virtual Reality Training We continue to invest in innovative technology to make logistics easier for everyone. As we rolled out a new operational system across the nation, we recognized the need for a way to provide training to our teams quickly and easily. Using virtual reality technology was the ideal way to accomplish this, and we were successful using this new process. 2019 was our first year to use this technology, and we’re excited about the opportunities virtual reality presents with employees and customers. 48 Employee Annual Engagement Survey Collaboration is another ArcBest core value, and we Every year, employees can provide feedback by participating encourage open communication from all employees. Hearing in an annual survey. The survey covers nine categories: honest and direct feedback helps us make improvements communication, supervision, benefits, management and strengthen our values-driven culture. We provide many style, culture, customers, employee engagement, working channels for employees to give feedback and ensure each relationships and performance. The responses we gain help voice is heard. us better support our customers while improving our work environment. In 2019, we had the highest-ever employee 7 Ways Employees Can participation rate at 90% and an overall survey statement Share Their Opinions or Concerns favorability rating of 80%. • Annual survey Results • Pulse survey • ArcBest Creativity Box Our Work Reimagined Committee carefully reviews every • SAM online suggestion system response and makes recommendations based on requests • Anonymous reporting hotline and concerns. Major takeaways from the 2019 survey include • Employee experience inbox improving our parental leave and bereavement policies and • Talking directly to supervisor support for continued investment in innovative technology. 49 Customer Experience We believe the learning and development resources available to employees directly contribute to our people being one of our biggest differentiators — they act as creative problem solvers for our customers every day. Developing a robust Voice of the Customer (VOC) program is an ArcBest investment in innovation because we’re committed to helping customers overcome their supply chain challenges. We continually make improvements based on customer survey responses and comments, resulting in a 168% increase* in our Net Promoter Score (NPS). Learn more about current CX initiatives derived from customer feedback at https://logistics.arcb.com/cx. *3Q 2020 vs. 3Q 2017 50 Future Initiatives We also use survey responses to determine long-term goals. Here are some areas of focus for 2020 and beyond: • Continue efforts to enhance the way we collaborate internally between departments to provide a best-in-class experience to our customers • Continue implementation of various innovative technology and process enhancements to improve the customer and employee experience • Continue work to improve the experience of employees across the organization 51 Community Involvement We believe serving our communities is just as important as serving our customers, and we’re dedicated to making a difference at home and across the nation. In 2019, through fundraising and volunteering, thousands of our employees gave back in ways that helped create happier, healthier and safer places to live and work. 52 Leadership Academy “ Fundraising Events Initially, we decided we wanted to help Every year, the ArcBest Leadership Academy chooses a as many people as possible with our community project to support. The Class of 2018 partnered project and supporting an organization with St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital® and raised whose vision is to create a world where more than $67,000 during 2019 fundraising efforts. all children have access to medical care, The Class of 2019 has joined Ronald McDonald House and where their families would be given Charities® (RMHC) to provide stability and resources for support, seemed like a perfect fit. We ” families across the nation. discovered that 10% of our small group had personal experiences with RMHC and there were probably hundreds of ArcBest 2019 Donations and employees who also have their own stories! Fundraising Highlights: • Donated to charity: $930,000 • Donated to United Way: $410,000 Denae Bell 2019 Leadership Academy graduate • Donated to disaster relief for employees: $53,000 53 “” Partners to exchange letters. At the start of the 2018-2019 school year, more than 60 employees wrote a letter to their student Ultimately, our hope with participating in this project is to educate students early on about ArcBest, so when in Education and received a response two weeks later — this continued they go to college, they can apply for our student worker throughout the year so that mentors and students both wrote program, which allows them to get a foot in the door and received a letter each month. For the students, this while working through school. provides a fun way to develop a friendship while improving Mentoring their writing skills. In May 2019, ArcBest hosted the annual Program Pen Pal Picnic at Trusty so mentors and students could meet face-to-face. Since 2015, ArcBest has partnered with Trusty Elementary in Luke Boen Fort Smith, Arkansas, to mentor 5thand 6th-grade students. Northside High School Marketing Campaign & During the 2018-2019 school year, more than 30 employees Logistics Project CX Project Lead volunteered a total of 449 hours. Mentoring activities included meeting with students twice a month during lunch, helping During the 2018-2019 school year, ArcBest partnered with kindergarten orientation, hosting a Christmas party, with Northside High School in Fort Smith, Arkansas, to reading to 180 students during Read Across America week help their Introduction to Supply Chain Management and and filling more than 350 bags with personal hygiene products Logistics class teach 10thto 12th-grade students about the for students. logistics industry. Employees gave presentations covering transportation, operations, warehousing, supply chain Pen Pal technology, transportation systems and customer service Program skills. Team member Luke Boen said multiple students showed interest in pursuing a logistics career. We also participate in a Pen Pal Program with Trusty Elementary and pair employees with 5th and 6th graders 54 United Way of Fort Smith Area ArcBest has been a Pacesetter company for the United Way of Fort Smith Area for decades and participates in many initiatives including Fill the Bus and Day of Caring. Through multiple fundraising efforts, employee pledges and a company match, we raised nearly $410,000 in 2019. 100% of our contributions go directly to partner agencies that invest in programs that provide education, childcare, shelter and food. Here are some fun events our employees hosted to raise money: • Spicy Chip Challenge • Holiday Bake Sale and Raffle • Sweaters, Cookies & Cocoa • Pancake Breakfast • Nacho Bar • Halloween Costume Day 55 Human Trafficking ArcBest fully supports basic human rights for every person employees (and continue to train new hires) on how to and condemns all forms of human trafficking. We expect identify human trafficking in the transportation industry. all employees, suppliers and business affiliates to obey and respect human rights laws, and we will not tolerate any Polaris conduct that violates these laws. Due to the nature of our industry, it’s critical that we help raise awareness to potentially In 2019, we partnered with Polaris — a leading nonprofit disrupt trafficking networks. Through partnerships with organization dedicated to fighting and ending sex and Polaris and Truckers Against Trafficking® (TAT), we educate labor trafficking in North America. We’re currently working our employees and drivers on the realities of modern-day with the Polaris team to develop and execute education slavery and how they can play a role in supporting the fight. materials for employees and contract carriers on the realities of human trafficking. Learn more about our Polaris Truckers Against Trafficking partnership. Truckers Against Trafficking is a group that exists to “educate, equip, empower and mobilize members of the trucking, bus and energy industries to combat human trafficking.” ABF Freight partnered with TAT in 2016 and has been a Copper level sponsor since 2017. We’ve trained over 10,000 56 Disaster Relief In May 2019, our Fort Smith, Arkansas, community experienced historic and record flooding, and our Dayton, Ohio, community took the brunt force of an EF4 tornado. These natural disasters left behind significant damage to businesses and homes. The ArcBest Relief Fund — which combines funds from employee donations, employee fundraising and our company match — provided $53,000 to employees directly impacted. Employees also volunteered many hours to help clean and rebuild businesses and homes. One example includes 18 employees who helped paint classrooms, clean floors and install drywall at Moffett Public Schools in eastern Oklahoma, which was destroyed by the flooding. 57 Other ways we got involved in 2019 Medina County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals On Valentine’s Day, our Medina, Ohio, team sold carnations and roses and raised $872 for their local County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals — a shelter that protects and cares for abused, neglected or abandoned animals. Safety Drive for a Cure More than a dozen ABF Freight drivers took part in the 7th annual Safety Drive for a Cure in Georgia, which raises money for the Pediatric Brain Tumor Foundation® — Georgia chapter. In addition to raising funds, the competition promotes safe driving in the trucking industry. 58 Eye Make A Difference® Employees donated nearly 400 pairs of gently used prescription and non-prescription glasses, readers and sunglasses to Eye Make A Difference — an Eyes of Hope® program that provides glasses to VSP network doctors and optometric organizations for mission trips. Walk to End Alzheimer’s Employees raised over $2,600 for the Alzheimer’s Association® in September as part of the Walk to End Alzheimer’s event at the University of Arkansas – Fort Smith. Susan G. Komen® Ozark More Than Pink Walk On October 5th, 183 employees participated in the 2019 Susan G. Komen Ozark More than Pink Walk at the University of Arkansas – Fort Smith. ArcBest was the No. 1 fundraising team in the community, raising $1,350 for the foundation. 59 Fisher House Foundation Our Dayton, Ohio, team raised over $6,000 through donations for the Fisher House® Foundation — a local organization that provides support and lodging for military families while their loved ones receive medical treatment. The company matched the funds to bring the total to $13,110. Career Clothing Drive In October, the Recruiting team held a Career Clothing Drive to benefit the University of Arkansas – Fort Smith Career Services Professional Clothing Closet. Fort Smith employees donated four cart loads full of gently used professional attire during the drive. Feed My Starving Children In December 2019, 20 ArcBest employees in Illinois helped pack meals for Feed My Starving Children — a nonprofit that has provided nutritious meals to people around the world since 1987. In less than an hour, our employees packed enough food to feed 86 children for a full year. 60 Operation Christmas Child For the 11th year, more than 50 employees volunteered in Georgia, North Carolina and Texas to help process and transport over 4 million gift-filled shoeboxes in over 800 trailers for Operation Christmas Child®. National Wreath Project In December, four ABF Freight trailers from the Carlisle, Pennsylvania, service center transported nearly 14,000 Christmas wreaths to Arlington National Cemetery to be placed on veterans’ graves as part of the annual Sgt. Mac Foundation’s National Wreath Project. ABF has been providing transportation for the project since 2007. Salvation Army® Angel Tree Our Dayton, Ohio, team provided Christmas gifts to 70 children in their local community as part of their annual participation in The Salvation Army Angel Tree program. 61 Sustainability 62 “ ” Making decisions that conserve our world’s resources is one of the most critical things we can do as a business. Through measuring, benchmarking and assessing our transportation and facility operations, and then using that data to make better choices, we can greatly contribute to environmental sustainability. Mark Bradley Vice President ABF Freight, Fleet Services 63 Our Commitment to Sustainability As a transportation and logistics company, we acknowledge and understand the effects our industry has on the environment, such as emissions and waste management. We’re working hard to positively impact the world by taking steps to minimize our footprint and conserving resources. Through actively exploring and implementing sustainable initiatives such as finding ways to reduce emissions and applying environmental best practices, we are dedicated to doing our part to protect the planet. 64 Fleet Awards, Partnerships & Certifications Our award-winning ArcBest, ABF Freight and Panther Premium Logistics fleets demonstrate our commitment to environmental responsibility: • 2019 Inbound Logistics Green 75 Supply Chain • 2014, 2018 and 2019 EPA SmartWay • SmartWay Transport Partner since 2008 Partner Excellence Award winner • 2019 CARB Certificate of Compliance • SmartWay Transport Partner since 2018 • Nine-time Inbound Logistics Green 75 Supply Chain Partner • 2019 California Air Resources Board (CARB) Certificate of Compliance • 2019 SmartWay High Performer • SmartWay Transport Partner since 2006 • 2019 CARB Certificate of Compliance 65 Equipment Efficiency We know the environmental effects of operating heavy-duty retrofitted nearly 15,000 trailers with aerodynamic skirts and trucks, which is why we purchase and operate more efficient ordered tractors with roof and side fairings to reduce wind equipment. Recent efforts have primarily focused on our lessresistance and increase fuel economy. than-truckload fleet. All road equipment is fitted with low-rolling-resistance tires ABF Freight Equipment to reduce energy loss and automated manual transmissions to improve fuel mileage. All new pup trailers are equipped ABF Freight has been a long-time adopter of conservation with auto tire inflation systems to reduce fuel consumption. efforts. In 1976, we began voluntarily governing maximum We also use biodiesel fuel in some locations to increase truck speeds (today at 66 mph) to conserve fuel and energy efficiency and enhance air quality. All dock forklifts reduce emissions. In 1994, we purchased new trucks with are powered by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) engines which computerized engine shut-offs to reduce idling, minimize fuel the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) consumption and limit emissions. recognizes as a clean alternative fuel. We’re conscious of the need to operate clean, fuel-efficient equipment — the average age of our road tractors is 20 months and city power units average six years. Recently, we purchased 450 road tractors with optimized fuel economy, purchased or 66 SmartWay® Partnerships We are a proud partner of the EPA’s SmartWay Program, which Our Panther and ArcBest fleets are also members of the “” is a voluntary, market-driven initiative that aims to reduce SmartWay Program — Panther since 2008 and ArcBest emissions and fosters the development of a cleaner and more since 2018. efficient freight supply chain. We are proud that the EPA has recognized our Since 2004, SmartWay Partners have avoided emitting more commitment to maintaining environmental quality. At than 134 million tons of harmful air pollution, while saving ArcBest, we are committed to promoting a greener supply more than 279 million barrels of oil and $37.5 billion in fuel chain and adopting measures designed to improve fleet costs. That’s equivalent to eliminating the annual energy use efficiency and sustainability. of over 18 million homes, according to the EPA. ABF Freight has been a SmartWay Partner since 2006 and also received SmartWay Excellence Awards in 2019, 2018 and 2014. In August 2019, ABF was named a 2019 SmartWay High Performer, which recognizes SmartWay Transport Partners Judy R. McReynolds ArcBest Chairman, that lead the freight industry in producing more sustainable President and CEO supply chains. 67 Sustainable • Rooftop DOAS (Direct Outside Air Systems) Units that pretreat air before it enters the building Buildings • LED lights, light sensors, ambient lighting and energy recovery wheels inside the building to reduce energy consumption • More than 60 parking spots available for fuelefficient vehicles, as well as bicycles and motorcycle We work to ensure our facilities promote environmental parking best practices while positively impacting our employees and • Water-bottle filling stations to encourage reusable communities. drinkware • Recycling stations Corporate Headquarters • Toilets, sinks and fountains with low water flow to reduce water usage The construction of our corporate office in Fort Smith, • Negatively charged carpet fiber that repels stains to Arkansas, was completed in 2017 and received LEED Silver eliminate the need to use chemicals when cleaning certification in 2018 by the U.S. Green Building Council. The • Biodegradable cleaning products and paper towels building was designed to optimize energy performance, made from recycled materials including an energy-efficient envelope and building • Recyclable paper products utilized in break areas while materials that consist of nearly 40% recycled content. Other also encouraging employees to use their own reusable environmentally friendly features include: food containers and utensils • Low e-coated glass windows with a high UV rating to help reduce summertime heat • Air-cool chillers that cool the building more efficiently than air ducts 68 ABF Service Centers We’re also committed to environmental protection at each of our 240+ service centers: • Pollution Prevention. To comply with the Clean Water Act that regulates water pollution, all service centers are either stormwater permitted, with the appropriate prevention plans in place, or have a No Exposure Certification from the EPA. • Fuel Storage Improvements. To protect water sources, our on-site fuel storage is restricted to facilities with high fuel use, and we use both above and underground tanks. All tank systems comply with federal, state and local regulations, and our underground tanks include state-of-theart designs with double-walled fiberglass tanks and lines, spill and overfill prevention, and electronic tank monitoring. • Recycling. To minimize waste, we recycle all oil, antifreeze, cleaning solutions and scrap metal, and in many shops, use cloth rags as an alternative to paper towels. We also return used engine batteries to the manufacturer and use retread tires. 69 Sustainable Managed Transportation Services Operations Transporting freight using heavy-duty trucks is the fastestgrowing contributor to emissions in America — and freight activity continues to increase. The EPA projects that shipping U.S. goods will rise 45% by 2040. That’s why it’s critical for ArcBest to offer solutions that contribute to environmental Many of our services and solutions have been designed with sustainability. sustainability in mind. We continually evaluate these services, along with our routing and loading processes, to ensure we’re Through managed transportation services, we partner with operating as efficiently as possible. customers to create and execute customized logistics strategies that lead to fewer trucks on the road. Using supply U-Pack® chain optimization, load optimization, pool distribution, vendor consolidation and other transportation strategies, we U-Pack, a service of ArcBest, offers nationwide household review and help restructure how customers distribute their moving services. Since 1997, U-Pack has helped more than freight. Our goal is to reduce the number of trips required to 1 million families move their belongings across the U.S. deliver shipments from origin to destination. Benefits include The U-Pack business model incorporates load optimization reducing fuel consumption, minimizing air pollution and strategies for the most efficient transportation. Families carbon emissions, and conserving energy. For our customers, or individuals moving across the country can load their they benefit from reducing their overall carbon footprint and belongings into a 28-foot trailer, using as much space as they transportation costs. need, and then we fill any remaining space on the truck with commercial freight for a fully optimized load plan. This helps keep moving costs low and helps reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the number of trucks on the road. 70 • Recording, analyzing and disclosing ESG data across our organization, Future including energy usage, water usage, recycling and waste management data Environmental Goals • Documenting and disclosing environmental data for our dedicated fleet and capacity providers • Remodeling older facilities to align with green building practices We know we have more progress to make in our sustainability efforts, and we’re committed to taking steps in the right direction. Here are some things • Continuing to purchase clean, fuel-efficient trucks, forklifts and other fleet we’re working toward: equipment 71 Looking Ahead This report is the first of its kind in our commitment to annually publish information about corporate social responsibility efforts. We’ve taken many steps in 2020 to further develop our environmental, social and governance strategy, and we are excited to share these actions in next year’s report. Next Steps: • Establishing processes for gathering and analyzing ESG data • Identifying opportunities for improvement and defining long-term objectives • Working closely with our Board and leadership team to evaluate which reporting frameworks are most aligned with our strategic objectives 72
