Bringing IKEA to more people in new ways Annual Summary & Sustainability Report FY19 Ingka Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) Investing to /3 Big moves transform page 38 in big cities RUSSIA 14 IKEA stores page 24 1 Customer Distribution Centre 1 Distribution Centre 14 Ingka Centres meeting places ASIA 40 IKEA stores Our greenest 9 Customer Distribution Centres 5 Distribution Centres store yet page 64 3 Ingka Centres meeting places A new kind of meeting places page 42 NORTH AMERICA 64 IKEA stores EUROPE All in for equality page 52 14 Customer Distribution Centres 246 IKEA stores 8 Distribution Centres 24 Customer Distribution Centres 15 Distribution Centres 28 Ingka Centres meeting places We are Ingka Group Group financial performance and governance Who we are  4 A message from Juvencio Maeztu  96 AUSTRALIA A message from Jesper Brodin  6 Our financial year FY19  98 10 IKEA stores We’re passionate about life at home  8 Taxes  100 3 Customer Distribution Centres Consolidated income statement  101 1 Distribution Centre Our business Consolidated balance sheets  102 Ownership structure and governance  104 About our business  12 Business ethics  106 374 IKEA stores in 30 countries Our business transformation  13 IKEA Retail: Creating a new IKEA  14 IKEA Foundation  108 Our 10 jobs in three years  16 Ingka Investments  38 Indices and appendix Ingka Centres  42 Our compliance with the UN Global Compact  111 Our people Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals  112 Appendix, Circular and climate positive  114 • In FY19, we had ecommerce in all 30 countries, and ecommerce sales grew by 46% Creating a people movement  48 Assurance report of the independent auditor  118 Recruitment and competence development  49 • 839 million visits to IKEA stores Going all in on equality  52 • 480 million visits to Ingka Centres meeting places Creating a great co-worker experience  54 Improving health, well-being and occupational safety  55 • 2.6 billion visits to IKEA.com The financial year 2019 (referred to as FY19) of the Ingka Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) refers to the period between 1 • 22.6 million visits to the online IKEA catalogue People and planet positive September 2018 and 31 August 2019 and the entities controlled by Ingka Holding B.V. during this time. Ingka Group operates under franchise • 26 million visits to the IKEA store app Becoming people and planet positive  58 agreements with Inter IKEA Systems B.V., the worldwide IKEA franchisor. A message from Pia Heidenmark Cook  59 Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is part of Inter IKEA Group, which also includes IKEA Healthy and sustainable living  62 range, supply and certain industrial activities. Together with Inter IKEA Group and 11 other IKEA franchisees, we improve and develop IKEA to be Circular and climate positive  68 more relevant and inspiring. In February 2020, Inter IKEA Group will publish Fair and inclusive  82 the IKEA Sustainability Report, which reports on all companies in the IKEA Sustainability governance and management  90 franchise system and value chain. Back to table of contents We are Ingka Group / 5 2.6 x 534 billion visits to IKEA.com We have invested in 534 wind turbines and two solar farms in 14 countries and have 920,000 Who we are 22.6 million visits to the solar modules on the roofs of our stores and Growing from our Swedish roots online IKEA catalogue Half of our managers are women, as are more warehouses. This enables us to generate more In the three decades since we were founded, we’ve brought the and 26 million visits to than half of our co-workers and 30% of Ingka renewable energy than the energy we use in our IKEA Brand to 30 countries and millions of homes. Driven by the the IKEA Store app. Group Management. operations! IKEA vision to create a better everyday life for the many people, we're united by our culture, values and entrepreneurial spirit. Togetherness, simplicity, cost-consciousness and caring for people and the planet, are some of the values that drive us to constantly innovate and improve our way of working. EUR 36.7 839 Passionate about life at home 141 We’re passionate about life at home, about bringing functional, billion IKEA Retail sales million IKEA affordable and sustainable home furnishing solutions to people (EUR 34.8 billion in FY18) store visits with big dreams and thin wallets. We always put our customers first, and as their needs change, so do we. Through the biggest million IKEA Family members 480 million Ingka Centres An increase of 5.0% from last year, at constant transformation in IKEA history, we will reach more customers in Our most loyal customers are members currency rate. Total revenue was EUR 39.1 more ways, with the products and services they want, at prices of IKEA Family. More than 46,000 new billion, and online sales grew by more than 46%, they can afford. members join every day! amounting to 11% of total IKEA Retail sales. shopping centre visits Making sustainable living affordable Resourcefulness has always been part of our DNA. And we want to have a positive impact on people and the planet – not only by going all in to contribute to the IKEA ambition to be circular 374 and climate positive but also by making healthy and sustainable living attractive and affordable for as many people as possible. IKEA stores in 30 countries 210,000 Shaping the future of home furnishing retail 7 We’re curious about the world around us and want to make At the end of FY19 we also had: a positive difference in people’s lives. As we continue our • 45 Ingka Centres shopping centres in 15 countries IKEA Home Solar in countries hectares transformational journey, we’re determined to lead home furnishing retail into the future – meeting even more people • 30 Distribution Centres in 18 countries The number of IKEA Home Solar customers grew We own approximately 210,000 hectares of with affordable, well-designed and sustainable home furnishing • 51 Customer Distribution Centres by 29%, and each customer saved, on average, responsibly managed forests in Estonia, Latvia, solutions for a better life at home. It inspires us even more in 16 countries EUR 400 per year on their energy bill. Lithuania, Romania and the USA. today than ever before. 27.2% EUR 1.8 16 corporate income tax Corporate income tax amounted to EUR 0.7 billion net profit countries billion globally, which equals an effective (EUR 1.5 billion in FY18) are supporting refugees, youth and corporate tax rate of 27.2% (30.0% in FY18). Our other vulnerable groups to develop total tax bill including other taxes and duties skills for employment. amounted to approximately EUR 1.1 billion. 32 47 166,200 million products saved co-workers social entrepreneurs We successfully gave 47 million recovered IKEA Retail: 160,100 We have partnerships with 32 social products a second life. 38 million products were Ingka Centres: 2,100 entrepreneurs and social businesses resold through the As-Is area and more than Ingka Investments: 200 in 16 countries. 9 million products were repacked and sold. Ingka Group functions: 3,800 Back to table of contents 6 / WE ARE INGKA GROUP A MESSAGE FROM JESPER BRODIN Bringing IKEA to more people in new ways FY19 was a special year! I know we tend to say that every year, but this time we really rolled up our sleeves – with big results. In challenging times for many retailers, we ended the year with growth, close to a 50% increase in online sales and more people coming to our IKEA stores than the year before. And we were able to do this in the middle of the biggest transformation in IKEA history, going all in to become more affordable, accessible and sustainable. O ur vision is more relevant than ever. To start with, and courage to test things, in the true entrepreneurial spirit of IKEA, let’s take a look at the world we live in. We see that more together with other IKEA franchisees and Inter IKEA Group. It’s a fast people are moving into big cities and living in smaller and exciting way of working – and the best way to get it right in times spaces – still with thin wallets and big dreams. We see how of change. technology is changing everything, creating new opportunities for us to reach more people in better ways. Sustainability is becoming Big expansion in big cities the defining issue of our time, and the younger generation in We continue to grow, and this year we opened seven IKEA stores and particular is calling for more and urgent action – and rightly so. 11 smaller format IKEA stores and IKEA planning studios in growing All this means that the IKEA vision – to create a better everyday cities like London, Moscow, New York and Paris. We’re testing and life for the many people – is more relevant than ever before. As a trying different formats, with a plan to expand to 40+ cities in the big brand with a big purpose, we have a unique opportunity to next few years. We’re also continuing to invest in our Ingka Centres really make a positive impact for people and the planet and meeting places and blue box IKEA stores, turning them into festivals contribute to wider changes in society. Actions speak louder than – full of home furnishing knowledge and inspiration, food and words, and we keep pushing forward to reach the IKEA ambition activities that give people even more reasons to come and visit us. for 2030 – to become a circular and climate positive business and to offer healthier and more sustainable solutions at scale that Towards a new digital IKEA more and more people can afford. Eighty percent of our customers start their journey online, and it’s We’re on track to produce as much renewable energy as the by connecting all our customer meeting points through data and energy we consume in our own operations by 2020. We’re rolling analytics that we’ll truly transform. There has been phenomenal out affordable home solar offers, switching to 100% electric vehicle work done within digital, and we’ve put massive efforts into creating home deliveries, offering a new veggie hot dog with 15% of the a modern infrastructure that can take our digital transformation to carbon footprint of a hot dog made with meat, testing circular business models like furniture leasing – the list goes on. For us, business and sustainability go hand in hand as we work to meet the next level. During the year, we launched the new IKEA app, an Time to celebrate, no time to stop customer demand for more sustainable products and services. improved web experience and digital display tools for our city stores After a year like this, it’s time to celebrate! But it’s no time to stop. – with more to come as we move ahead. Going into FY20, we’ll keep investing in lower prices for our customers and in our stores, making them shine like never before. We continue to grow, and this year we opened Turning our network of stores into fulfilment At the same time, we’ll continue to develop our advantages in home seven IKEA stores and 11 smaller stores and deliveries and take even bigger steps in digital. And above all, we’ll hubs gives us a big logistical advantage. IKEA planning studios in growing cities like continue our efforts to become people and planet positive, making We can offer faster, more affordable and sustainable choices affordable to the many people. London, Moscow, New York and Paris. sustainable home deliveries. FY20 will also be a year where we put extra focus on our culture Creating a new IKEA in three years and values, on what really makes us different – the fact that we’re We’re one year into our big, three-year transformation to create All about the logistics being part of something big and meaningful. As the world keeps a new IKEA. Thanks to the amazing team effort and spirit of Logistics is perhaps the most important part of it all. Through changing, our vision to create a better everyday life for the many our 166,200 co-workers, we’re becoming a more accessible and intense work with fulfilment and services, we’ve been able to bring people is more relevant than ever before. We can make a huge sustainable retailer that’s ready to meet customer needs in more down lead times to a few days or below, which is phenomenal for big difference for people and the planet, and we’re more determined Front Days have been a part of our IKEA culture for many years, letting all officechannels and better ways. I’m very happy for all the incredible items like furniture. Through Ingka Investments, we’re also investing than ever to do it! based co-workers work in a store for two days a year. It’s a great opportunity to progress in FY19, and some days I’m even more happy for the engage with colleagues, meet customers and get experience from our IKEA in innovative companies like TaskRabbit and Traemand that help us Jesper Brodin failures that we see along the way. This tells me we have the curiosity Retail operations. Read more about Front Days on page 50. speed up and evolve our total offer of on-demand services. President and CEO, Ingka Group Back to table of contents 8 / WE ARE INGKA GROUP WE ARE INGKA GROUP / 9 Creating a sanctuary for Before restful recovery Kasia is a community worker and single mom, living with her two sons in the suburbs of Sydney. When the family was rocked by the news of Kasia’s cancer diagnosis, it was important for her to get the rest and recovery she needed in a calm space. To maximise the potential of her bedroom, we used smart storage to organise clothes and things, creating a calming sanctuary. We were even able to fit a small home office within a second wardrobe and help solve storage frustrations. A big part of Kasia’s recovery was rest indoors, out of the sun. To bring some of the outdoors in, we used the hanging space at the end of her new GJÖRA bed frame to hang a canopy of leafy plants. For the full makeover of Kasia’s bedroom and other IKEA + you makeovers, see www.ikea.com/au/en/campaigns/IKEA+you We’re passionate about life at home We believe that a better home creates a better everyday life. Building on our 75+ years of home furnishing knowledge and research, we also regularly visit people all over the world to find out what life at home is really about. S ome aspects of home are shared the world over – like sleeping we hosted in-store events with the families and extended the and eating – and some things are defined by our culture and conversation online, including how-to videos with our interior traditions, the amount of space we have and what the weather designers. We even created the small magazine IKEA Extra, detailing is like. So when we visit people, we explore every space, every how people could bring the solutions to life in their own home with drawer and every moment that takes place. We ask what people any wallet size. do at home and how they feel when they are there. And sometimes we’ll join them for a cup of tea, the weekly clean or a large family meal. Our home visits help us understand what life at home is like in every country we’re in. It means we can create better solutions that meet people’s real needs and reflect the hopes and dreams of our customers. Solving Australia's biggest bedroom frustrations The IKEA + you home makeover initiative in Australia is one example of how we engage with customers to learn about their needs and help create a better, more inspiring and affordable life at home. In FY19, we focused on the bedroom – a personal, closed-door space and often the last room in the home that people renovate, remodel or refresh. Australians trusted us to solve their biggest bedroom frustrations and transform this frequently forgotten space into a retreat. Taking a truly multichannel approach In total, we’ve worked with over 150 real families to co-create the bedrooms of their dreams. To inspire others with their stories, Kasia, Bidwill, New South Wales Back to table of contents BÖJA Table lamp € 29.95 Our business on two rows Our business Chapter preamble ditas quis dis restiaectat arum estion rem reperia spietur at asperum hicipitatem qui sunt erae. Ratum dem quam voluptio. About our business  12 Our 10 jobs in three years  16 Our business Article this section   one intransformation 13 00 Ingka ArticleInvestments four in this section  38 00 Article in this section two Creating IKEA Retail:  a new IKEA  00 14 Article five in this section  Ingka Centres 00 42 Article three in this section  00 Back to table of contents 12 / our business our business / 13 The world is changing fast. So are we. As the world continues to change, we’re accelerating the biggest transformation in IKEA history. Adapting to new customer needs, we’re investing in our existing stores, expanding to more cities and improving digital solutions and services. It’s all in order to reach more customers and become more accessible, affordable and sustainable. F or the past 75 years, we’ve been driven by the IKEA vision Change everything (almost) of creating a better everyday life for the many people. From To adapt to this new reality, we’ve ignited the biggest transformation flat packs to the veggie dog, we’ve always looked for ways to in IKEA history – and we’re changing everything (almost). In order innovate and improve the way we meet the needs and dreams of to reach more people than ever before, we’re creating new digital our customers. Today, we see big global movements in technology, solutions and improving our delivery, assembly and installation STRANDMON digitalisation, urbanisation and environmental awareness that services. We’re investing in our existing stores, opening new city Children’s armchair fundamentally change the way we live and shop. For us, this means stores and other touchpoints and continuing to integrate our retail 99 many challenges and vast new opportunities. But most of all, it business with our shopping centres. On top of this, we’re investing € means change. in innovative start-ups and companies that can help us move even faster. The transformation is also about becoming people and planet positive and making healthy and sustainable living an attractive and affordable choice for as many people as possible. As we transform, we’ve identified three critical challenges that we’re determined to turn into our greatest opportunities: affordability, accessibility and sustainability. More affordable, for more people All over the world, more people are improving their living situations and getting a chance at creating a better life and a better home. But space is tight, and most wallets are thin. As we grow, we must We bring IKEA into people’s lives stay cost-effective so that we can reach an increasing number of customers with the products and services they want at prices they can afford. Ingka Group is bringing the IKEA Brand to 30 countries, operating 374 IKEA stores and worldwide digital solutions Getting closer to our customers Today, convenience and accessibility is key. More people are moving and ecommerce. Our expansion and reach are strengthened by our network of shopping centres and an active into cities. Many don’t have, or even want, a car. People shop more investment arm to support our growth, business transformation and sustainability goals. online and expect faster and better services. To get closer to our customers, we need to offer a great experience in all channels – in I ngka Group, is representing the IKEA Brand through stores and 19 fulfilment units to support our delivery services. Our our stores and shopping centres, in cities and online. And it all needs multichannel retail in a variety of physical and digital formats, mix of touchpoints included 374 IKEA stores in 30 countries, 20 to be integrated with seamless services for delivery, assembly and and in FY19, our 166,200 co-workers generated over 90% of total IKEA planning studios, 30 Distribution Centres and 51 Customer installation that are both fast and sustainable. IKEA Retail sales. With 839 million visits to our stores and 2.6 billion Distribution Centres, as well as a fast-growing online presence. visits online, our customers are always at the heart of everything People and planet positive we do. Whether it’s the full experience at one of our IKEA stores, Ingka Centres Climate change, unsustainable consumption and inequality are real the convenience of shopping online or a spontaneous visit to a city We also own and operate one of the world’s biggest shopping centre threats facing our business and our planet. Our values, size and store, our focus is to keep creating a better retail experience in a businesses. Ingka Centres runs 45 vibrant shopping centres in 15 reach give us an opportunity to lead. We want to grow a sustainable, growing number of channels. countries across Europe, Russia and China – always anchored by an fair and inclusive business that inspires and enables millions of Our home furnishing expertise, low prices and relevant solutions IKEA store. The main purpose is to support the establishment of IKEA people to live better everyday lives within the limits of the planet. will always be critical success factors, but we’re also working hard stores and drive visitation by creating innovative meeting places for to enable customers to experience our offer in new and different people to shop, dine and entertain themselves. All powered by our entrepreneurial spirit ways. We are determined to make healthy and sustainable living We have a long history not only of entrepreneurship and coming an attractive and affordable choice and to contribute to the IKEA Ingka Investments up with creative solutions to difficult problems. But also of pulling ambition to become circular and climate positive. Ingka Group is Through Ingka Investments, we make strategic investments and together and getting things done, constantly renewing and made up of three businesses, working closely together: IKEA Retail, acquisitions to secure the long-term financial independence of Ingka improving our business. Together, we’re determined to make this Ingka Centres and Ingka Investments. Group and support our growth and business transformation. Our transformation happen – fast. We have a growth mind-set that’s investments and partnerships allow us to connect with innovative agile and innovative. Our backbone is our culture and values, the IKEA Retail companies that help accelerate our business development and IKEA Brand, passionate and performance-driven people and a deep IKEA Retail is our core business, and we continue to expand in digitalisation and to reach our sustainability goals. From renewable knowledge of sustainability and life at home. This transformation new and existing countries, reaching more and more customers energy to a circular economy, we invest not only in the future of our is just the beginning of a new everyday reality for Ingka Group, as through IKEA stores, digital solutions, new IKEA formats and business but in the future of our planet. changes will of course continue to accelerate. We’re excited about touchpoints. In FY19, we opened seven new IKEA stores, three city that future. Back to table of contents 14 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 15 01 02 03 04 05 Create a strong Create a Create a simple Create and Create a new position leading home and unique offer affordable world of IKEA from our purpose furnishing digital customer services to make in the city. – let people know what we stand for. movement. meeting. IKEA convenient. Innovating with start-ups at IKEA Bootcamp 06 07 08 09 10 In March 2019, we saw the second Create the Create a people Create Create a simpler Create a people edition of IKEA Bootcamp, an initiative IKEA store and planet always-on and better IKEA, movement and for co-creation with innovative startof tomorrow. positive IKEA. growth. designed for the make our culture ups in the retail space. Out of 1,100 future. and values a living reality. applicants from 62 countries, 18 joined the programme. ► IKEA Bootcamp is a three-month accelerator programme, run by several companies1 operating under the IKEA Brand, to collaborate with innovative growth-stage IKEA RETAIL start-ups that share our vision and can Creating a new IKEA contribute to our business transformation and reaching our sustainability goals. The programme gives them access to all major Co-creating solutions from parts of IKEA, allowing them to work with – 10 jobs in three years key decision-makers and experts to develop pilot projects. To succeed with the transformation of our business, we’ve identified When we bring together fast start-ups with the world of IKEA, great things happen. over 20,000 co-workers Together, we’ve created solutions that went the 10 most important tasks we need to complete in three years. from theory to practice in record time. How can we unleash the entrepreneurial spirit of our co-workers, to help One year in, we’re seeing strong movements in digital development, store Some initiatives are now being tested, and transform our business? Sharing ideas and best practice through the new everyone is a winner: the customer, the transformations, city expansion, services and sustainability initiatives. internal co-creation platform VETLANDA is one of the most popular ways. start-up and Ingka Group, says Davide I V Urani, Strategy, Development and Innovation n order to turn our strategic goals of Whether it’s where and how people shop etlanda is the name of a village builds on our tradition of togetherness and Manager, Ingka Group. becoming more affordable, accessible their furniture, how they get it home or the in Småland, Sweden, and literally collaboration. In times of transformation, and sustainable into concrete actions, environmental impact of our business, our The 2019 IKEA Bootcamp concluded with means knowledge landing. But any activity that creates new capabilities and we’re focusing on what we call 10 jobs in customers’ expectations are changing fast, a Demo Day in Älmhult, Sweden, in June VETLANDA is also a platform that allows solutions is also actively contributing to our three years. We know that in order to meet and so will we. 2019, where progress and next steps were Ingka Group co-workers to share ideas positive performance, Stiven continues. new and changing customer behaviours, we presented. Among those participating were: and learn from our many initiatives. From need to offer great customer experiences, All together now inspiring good examples to cutting-edge ► Jido Maps. An augmented reality We encourage all our deliver seamless services and reach people One year into our three-year transformation, innovations, VETLANDA creates incentives where they are. We’re investing heavily in we’re 166,200 problem-solvers across Ingka company developing new digital ways for to both share and adopt the best ideas and co-workers to embrace a new sales channels, innovative IKEA formats Group, all pulling together to deliver on the customers to find what they’re looking for in solutions across our markets. There are proactive, entrepreneurial and improved services. 10 jobs. stores. A scalable solution that was tested in so many great ideas out there, but we’re five markets during the programme. mindset . sometimes developing similar solutions Stiven Kerestegian, Why 10 jobs? Driven by our entrepreneurial spirit, we’re ► Beam Impact. A values-based loyalty at the same time, reinventing the wheel Innovation Manager, Ingka Group. These are the 10 most important tasks that simplifying, becoming quicker and leaner. instead of leveraging our global diversity, service that enables users to donate part of we must accomplish in order to create a new Not afraid to make mistakes, we’re testing says Stiven Kerestegian, Innovation Among the many crowdsourced solutions their purchase price at partnered brands to a IKEA, in all of our countries and across our and trying new things, moving fast to get Manager, Ingka Group. are an interactive map that helps customers cause they both believe in. Read more about company. They’re big, bold initiatives that quick results. We’re open and collaborative, in Poland find their way around the stores our collaboration with Beam Impact in New will have a significant and positive impact on with ideas and solutions coming not only Since its launch in January 2019, and a Russian initiative involving bloggers our business, our customer experience and from all over the organisation via a digital In the rest of this chapter, York on page 34. VETLANDA has attracted over 20,000 users in the design of room settings in stores. our sustainability goals. sharing platform that crowdsources our best you’ll see a few examples who share, search and co-create solutions Some of the best solutions will be used in 1 IKEA Bootcamp is a partnership between Ingka practices and solutions but also from the of some of our many Group and Inter IKEA Group, which is responsible online. More than 500 solutions have been the Store of tomorrow pilot project in Why three years? many innovative companies we collaborate published on the platform, and the numbers Shanghai, which you can read more about With the pace of change that’s happening with and make investments in. initiatives within the for product development and the IKEA supply chain worldwide. Learn more on: are increasing. VETLANDA has sparked on page 31. around the world, speed is of the essence. 10 jobs during FY19. www.ikeabootcamp.rainmaking.io a growing co-creation movement that Back to table of contents 16 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 17 01 Sharing our Create a strong insights on life position leading from our purpose – let at home ► Just like people, homes come in all people know what shapes and sizes. To understand the we stand for. different ways that life at home takes place, we do research and make home visits all over the world and use our insights to create better solutions. And we love to share Everything we say and stories, so we release our research into the do positions IKEA – from world to empower others to make life at FLISAT home better. how we meet customers Children’s stool 14 to how we connect to the € .99 With 30,000+ interviews world around us. In order in 35 countries, our Life at to better reach the many Home Report 2019 was the people in the future and largest review into homes have a positive impact in society, we’re creating so far, and demonstrates a positioning movement our expertise in life at home like never before. Standing up for our LGBT+ friends and commitment to help make it better. ► In Italy, there’s a homophobic expression statement a new, positive meaning: Do it at Read more on: that labels LGBT+ people as out of place, your home. Because home is wherever you lifeathome.ikea.com just for being themselves in public: Do are. We shared our commitment with media, It’s all about purpose it at your home. For the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia institutions and associations. To celebrate Pride Month and to help raise funds and Raising the bar and Biphobia, IKEA Retail Italy launched awareness for LGBT+ rights, IKEA Retail Italy a campaign to celebrate everyone’s right also released the limited-edition rainbowDriven by the IKEA vision to create a better everyday life for the many people, we’re for low prices to feel at home everywhere by giving this coloured KVANTING carrier bag. proud to be purpose-led. From the way we engage with customers and co-workers to our actions for climate and equality, our deeply rooted purpose is the basis of everything we do. Because a better home creates a better life. Let’s celebrate the ► In Portugal, where 60% of the population lives on EUR 13,500 per household per year, everyday climate heroes! most people can’t afford to easily improve O ver 40 years ago, IKEA founder Ingvar purpose that helps them make better choices – their homes. This means that if we are to live Kamprad declared in his memo, Testament and they expect companies to take the lead rather up to our vision, we need to become even ► In April 2019, we launched the campaign A Better Worlds Start more affordable. To stretch the price ladder of a Furniture Dealer, that The first rule than wait for legislation. Co-workers want to be at Home to create awareness about how people can make more and prioritise lowering prices in our most is to maintain an extremely low level of prices. But part of something meaningful, part of contributing climate friendly choices in their daily lives. In the campaign, we popular furniture categories, we’re investing they must be prices with a meaning; that waste to positive change in the world. So to remain celebrate people doing good through their everyday actions, EUR 6 million over the coming year to lower of resources is one of the greatest diseases of unique and relevant in people’s lives, to reach more supported by IKEA products, such as water saving, energy saving, Make a difference witho the price of 185 products, 130 of which are mankind; and that without low costs, we can customers and attract more people to work with leaving your home. ut reducing waste and food waste and generating renewable energy. already available in stores and on IKEA.pt. never accomplish our purpose . us, our purpose is everything. Do you want to contribute to live in a more sustainable home. By doing small things way? Start at When combined, these actions can reduce a person’s carbon like reducing food waste, shopping bags, eating more carry reusable plant-based foods and hanging As we celebrate 15 years of IKEA in clothes to dry, you can not your only live in a way that’s As the world is changing and we transform our planet – it’s great for your better for the wallet too! At IKEA we have saving products and solutions many moneyfootprint by around 50%. The campaign is based on interviews with to help you save energy and reduce waste. They and water, may seem like small things Portugal, we’re working to enable more – but that’s the The first rule is to maintain beauty of small actions, they all add up. business to meet today’s many challenges, this 14,000 people in 14 countries about how they think about climate of the many Portuguese to improve their purpose is more important than ever. It’s about © Inter IKEA Systems an extremely low level of B.V. 2017 change, what encourages or stops them from taking climate action a better world starts at home making a positive difference in people’s lives, lives at home – by making functional, prices. But they must be and how we can motivate and enable them to do more. sustainable, good quality and beautifully meeting even more people with affordable, well designed solutions even more affordable. designed and more sustainable home furnishings prices with a meaning. KORVMOJ Hello, nice for a better life at home. But it’s also about taking a Ingvar Kamprad, IKEA founder, vegetable hot dog The result? 70% more active stand on matters that are important to 3 from Testament of a Furniture Dealer, 1976 us and our customers, like more sustainable living, € human rights and equality. The home is where we live and also the planet we share. By positioning ourselves with our purpose, we can connect with people in a more meaningful, to eat you emotional way. We can build more personal, long► The yummy, healthy veggie hot dog has only 15% of IKEA store visitors in Portugal, said they Today and even more so tomorrow, customers term relationships with our customers. And we can of the carbon footprint of a hot dog made with meat. were able to find more affordable solutions want to engage with brands that stand for engage with others to join the movement to create It’s served now at all our stores in Europe and in the than before the lower price initiative was something they care about, with a clear, positive a better everyday life for the many people. USA and is coming to the rest of the world in 2020. introduced. Back to table of contents 18 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 19 02 Create a home furnishing Your own personal For the love of a good night’s sleep interior designer movement. Listening to customers and sharing home furnishing knowledge is at the heart of what we do. With inspiring events like the Better Sleep Expert Forum and the IKEA Nap Bar, we’re inviting people to engage with us on how to create a better To share our home furnishing knowledge in an engaging way, we’re developing life at home – which of course always starts with a good night’s sleep. W new services that make it fun and easy to create your dream home. In Norway, e have a long history of research to genuinely Giving people a break with IKEA Nap Bars Home furnishing is the customers can now book 90-minute sessions with an IKEA interior designer to understand people’s life at home – their needs, challenges In August 2019, we created an event called the IKEA Nap Bar in essence of IKEA, central help with everything from a simple refresh to a complete home makeover. and dreams. Take sleep, for example, and the importance Bratislava, Budapest and Prague. Six comfy nap rooms were set of the entire sleep environment from beds and mattresses to pillows up in downtown locations, giving office workers a chance to try B to the IKEA vision and the ased on 75+ years of home furnishing Retail Norway saw an untapped potential to add and curtains. Through the countless bedroom products that we a refreshing 20-minute nap in the middle of their workday – and core of what we do. To knowledge, we launched a new home value around home furnishing services. Today, have sold, we’ve gained many valuable insights into how people learn a bit about the importance of sleep at the same time. We create a home furnishing furnishing service in Norway. Nine interior the interior design service and has been up and sleep – insights that help us create a better sleep experience for also offered expert talks, yoga classes and consultations with IKEA movement, we’ll develop an designers in IKEA stores across Norway now offer running for just over one year and been very our customers. Being a global business, we also know that the way designers and sleep experts on how beds, mattresses, textiles and even deeper understanding a wide selection of services ranging from advice well received. So far, home furnishing planning people sleep differs between countries. In the Asia-Pacific region, for accessories can help improve the quality of sleep. of people’s lives at home, on colours and materials to lighting plans and services have been implemented in 12 Ingka Group example, most customers want a really hard mattress – while many complete furnishing solutions. The 90-minute countries, and the ambition is to be able to offer it in the USA prefer to sleep in much softer beds. their needs, challenges, sessions are booked online and can take place in all markets where we have IKEA stores. Through a series of local events dedicated to the topic of better aspirations and dreams, in the store or online (which can be a great way sleep, we bring customers, co-workers and experts together to in every city and market. to give the interior designers a virtual home share, inspire and co-create, including external pop-up events, inIn the years to come, we’ll visit ). This is a service that’s relevant to anyone store event activities, guided tours, workshops, seminars and more. empower more of our who wants to make their home more functional co-workers to be home and beautiful but perhaps doesn’t have the time, Discussions were based on a survey of 5,000 knowledge or even interest, to do it without some furnishing experts and inspiration and tips from a pro. Norwegians participants in Germany about their sleeping engage with more people love their homes. They dream of larger spaces, habits and attitudes. Among the results: a in unique, personal and personalisation and living more sustainably, but majority consider sleep a waste of time and digital ways. they sometimes don’t know where to start. That’s where we come in with inspiration and solutions to often associate sleeping with being lazy! help make homes better, says Carolin Fredriksson, Interior Designer, IKEA Furuset, Oslo. The science of better sleep In March 2019, IKEA Retail Germany hosted the first Better Sleep Different needs, different solutions Expert Forum in Berlin, with more than 40 experts, researchers, Customers have different needs, so being flexible is journalists, bloggers and influencers coming together for a full day a key to success, just like the need to continuously of talks and workshops on sleep and how to improve it. The pop-up develop the service. For example, we’re developing event also featured a Sleeping Comfort guide to analyse sleeping pilot projects to test home visits and new digital behaviours, expert booths to find products for better sleep and tools that can make the interior design experience a pyjama competition branded the #Pyjamachallenge. The event even better and more efficient for both co-workers sparked big engagement from influencers on social media and and customers. blogs, including the popular #IKEASchlafgut hashtag on Instagram. The response was overwhelming and really contributed to our objective of creating a societal debate about a topic that’s so Ninety-two percent of our important for all of us: a better sleep, says Sandra Schwertfeger, The Better Sleep Expert Forum in Berlin featured talks with customers were very happy Interior Design Manager, IKEA Retail Germany. Dr. Guy Meadows and other leading experts on sleep. with the service and would recommend it to friends. The best part of the job is that we get to help so many different people find great home furnishing solutions. One day it’s a student on a tiny budget who needs help maximising space in a 20 m2 flat; the next day it’s a 90-year-old who wants us to give her 250 m2 home a complete makeover, Carolin continues. With a growing interest in home furnishing and increasing demand for convenience, IKEA Back to table of contents 20 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 21 03 Create a simple and unique Driving change digital customer meeting. We are tapping into with digital and data the potential of bringing Digital is at the very core of our transformation. Driven by data and analytics, we’re the uniqueness of IKEA quickly becoming a more accessible company. With new digital capabilities, we can to life digitally, together improve people’s lives at home and connect with more people, wherever they are A smarter with personalisation and and whenever they want. wardrobe convenience. Our mission W is to offer an excellent user e have great potential to bring recommendations and a better login experience. system with AI experience across all digital out the uniqueness of IKEA and our More functionality will be added, like making it home furnishing knowledge in digital possible to scan articles from the shelves in stores Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be channels to make it simple ways – with inspiration, problem-solving and and pay for them right away in the app. The rollout used for many clever things. In for customers to search, experiences for our customers and co-workers that of the new app is underway and it’s already live in China, it’s helping customers find, choose and buy in complement physical meetings. Today, 80% of our France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain and the UK. plan and customise their PAX just a few clicks. In FY19, store visitors start their journey online, making it essential for our customer meeting points to All about data wardrobe systems. we took an important step support and reinforce each other. To make this Behind the scenes, it’s all about data. In FY19, by launching the new IKEA ► PAX is our top-selling wardrobe happen, we’re developing new solutions to make it we’ve put a lot of resources into creating a modern app. easier for our customers to, in a more personalised infrastructure that can support our efforts to take system in China, generating about way, explore, choose and buy in just a few clicks, in the digital IKEA experience to the next level in 4% of all sales. It’s a flexible system all countries and on any device. the years to come. We’re becoming a data-driven that can be customised with many organisation, enabling better decision making combinations of doors, frames and interior fittings. Selling system Digital brings amazing and predictions. And we’re using data to optimise Using data is about creating simple and useful how we operate internally and to personalise and digital experiences for our customers. By better furniture like PAX can be complex. It opportunities for us. With the range at the core, fuelled by create a more relevant offer for our customers identifying their needs and preferences from their 46% increase requires deep knowledge of the full PAX range and capabilities to create – like recommending products and tailoring the online activity, we are able to offer a completely digital, we can adapt to consumer inspirational feed in the new IKEA app. This lets us different level of services and much more relevant in online sales the best combination for a specific customer, says Jerry Wu, Senior enhance and personalise the online experience product recommendations, says Emil Jørgensen, needs faster than ever before. In FY19, online sales represented Product Owner, Ingka Group. for our customers and better share our home Data Science Lead, Ingka Group. We can truly be a companion for furnishing knowledge in digital channels. more than 10% of our total IKEA Retail That’s why we developed this inspiration, for accessibility – and Data is also key to improving the in-store sales. We also started ecommerce in interactive 3-D tool to create an easy experience. If we look at our smaller city stores, a beacon of hope by being a China and India, making our online and inspiring way for customers to with limited space compared to a regular-sized explore the endless possibilities of good example of people and IKEA store, the use of analytics can help us store available to many more people. PAX, Jerry continues. Customers planet positive. determine which products we should offer in enter relevant information about a particular city store. It’s about knowing what ► In October 2018, our ecommerce solution Barbara Martin Coppola, went live in China, covering 227 cities and their needs into the tool, which Chief Digital Officer, Ingka Group customers like to buy where and when – whether then uses AI to generate a virtually it’s online, in the big IKEA store or in the small enabling up to 95% of the population to shop online at IKEA.com. At the end of FY19, infinite amount of PAX solutions for The new IKEA app city store – so that we can optimise the customer the customer to fine-tune. When we Launched in FY19, our new app is an important experience in every channel, continues Emil. ecommerce accounted for 5% of total IKEA Retail sales in China. concluded the test in our pilot store, step to better serve our customers. The new customer feedback was positive IKEA app is an inspirational touchpoint that our Enabling the omnichannel IKEA ► In August 2019, IKEA Retail India first launched its online store in the megacity both on the experience of using the customers interact with frequently, allowing We’re building an omnichannel IKEA, with more tool and on the overall shopping them to visualise how to furnish their homes customer meeting points than ever before. Mumbai, as part of an ambition to reach 100 million customers in three years with experience. The sales of PAX in with IKEA products. It also allows us to develop Through our new digital capabilities, we can our pilot store also saw positive a deeper customer relationship and provide a connect them all: the many IKEA formats, the an omnichannel approach. With a digital first rollout, customers are now able development, concludes Jerry. greater shopping experience based on individual web – on both desktop – and mobile, and the app. needs, says Sandra Osbeck, Senior Product By gathering and combining data from different to shop online in Mumbai even before The PAX planner tool is now used Owner, Ingka Group. In addition to the possibility sources and situations, we can analyse, predict and we’ve established any physical stores and in five of our 29 IKEA stores in China. Emil Jørgensen, customer meeting points. to buy everything directly, other features include Data Science Lead, Ingka Group create a better customer experience wherever and The plan is to scale it globally once a more appealing user interface, product whenever our customers choose to interact with us. the technology is mature. Back to table of contents 22 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 23 04 Create and offer affordable services to make IKEA convenient. The future of home furnishing, and almost every other business, is about your choice and your way. Our focus is to offer our services in all touchpoints making IKEA accessible to the many. We will expand our fulfilment network and create new partnerships with service A new kitchen made easy providers. We’ll bring products and services 100% electric, 100% of the time As we’re adapting to better meet the needs of our customers, offering accessible and affordable services is key. Our investment in the kitchen installation company Traemand gives more of our to more people when A year ahead of target, all IKEA home deliveries in Shanghai are made by electric customers a seamless experience all the way from planning to installation and customer support. they want them, where W vehicles. We’re on track to reach 100% electric or emission-free home deliveries they want them – in a e’re transitioning from a do-it-yourself company to Traemand has been a fully dedicated partner for IKEA’s kitchen sustainable and affordable by the end of 2020 in Amsterdam, Los Angeles, New York and Paris – and in all more of a we-can-also-do-it-for-you company. In FY19, service business in the US for 13 years, and more recently also in way. Through this we’ll our countries by the end of 2025. we’ve taken several steps to improve the customer Canada. We’ve had a successful partnership with IKEA Retail US, experience in services like home delivery, furniture assembly, where we have supported thousands of customers in the journey of S make shopping at IKEA hanghai, with more than 26 million example and securing we have the right business planning and installation. Buying a kitchen, for example, can be a buying their dream kitchen. This investment makes it possible for us easy, as well as increase inhabitants, was a natural choice to pilot model to keep delivering goods to our customers’ long and complex process with many choices and decisions to be to take the next steps in developing our tools and services to better interest in home furnishing, our conversion to electric vehicles for IKEA homes for years to come, says Angela Hultberg, made. In December 2018, Ingka Group acquired a stake in Traemand benefit the many IKEA kitchen customers, says Bjarne Rasmussen, enable a sustainable home deliveries. With three IKEA stores and Sustainable Mobility Leader, Ingka Group. With our ( carpenter in Danish), a leading kitchen service company that founder of Traemand. The investment will allow us to collaborate life and strengthen the one Distribution Centre, the Shanghai market success in Shanghai showing that transformation offers planning, measurement and installation services for IKEA even closer with Traemand and make their kitchen service concept emotional connection to handles more than 20,000 home deliveries every of last-mile deliveries can in fact be done, we now kitchens in the USA and Canada. To help customers through the available to more of our countries. We’re currently piloting the month. Reducing emissions and noise, while look to the future. It’s clear to us that this change process of getting a new kitchen, Traemand has systems and tools partnership in the UK, followed by Spain in 2020, with the ambition the many people. lowering our carbon footprint, is one of the ways is not something happening soon, but happening that – when integrated closer to IKEA Retail – will offer a seamless to roll out the concept to more Ingka countries in the near future. in which we can make Shanghai a healthier and now, and we’re determined to take action. journey from measuring and planning (online and in-store) to more sustainable place to live. In a city of this Amsterdam, Los Angeles, New York and Paris installation. It will be an end-to-end IKEA branded experience where size, traffic is a major source of noise and air are next in line for 100% electric or emission-free our customers will be met by co-workers who share the IKEA values pollution. We need to constantly reduce emissions deliveries by the end of 2020, with more cities – across all touchpoints. to improve the air quality, as well as reduce the preparing to follow suit. Our goal is to have all 30 traffic noise to create a better everyday life for the Ingka Group countries worldwide offering 100% many people, says Ken Zhong, Service Fulfilment electric or emission-free services by the end of 2025. Traemand’s systems and tools will offer Operations Manager, IKEA Retail China. Read more about our how we’re tackling IKEA customers a seamless journey from VARIERA emissions from travel and deliveries on page 78. measuring and planning (online and Cutlery tray € 29.99 An important success factor to reaching our goal early has been the strong collaboration with our in store) to installation. local service providers – with leased vehicles and Angela Hultberg, Sustainable Mobility thousands of charging and maintenance stations The kitchen buying experience can be tricky at best and I’m Leader, Ingka Group all over Shanghai. This model of partnering will be really excited about the opportunity to work even closer with implemented as we move forward with emission Traemand to further enhance our service offer. Working with free deliveries in many more cities across China. Traemand to insource kitchen services will allow us to develop a As the number of home delivery services grow, more efficient kitchen buying process and to reduce any after sales we’re increasingly conscious of our impact on air issues, identifying improvements that can lead to lower costs, less quality and people’s health. We need to make sure transportations, and thereby less impact on the environment, says we’re growing in a responsible way, setting a good Rob Kelly, Selling Manager, Ingka Group. Back to table of contents 24 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 25 05 Create a new world of IKEA IKEA now comes in the city. in different sizes ► IKEA store The blue box IKEA store is where you always get the full IKEA experience, all under one roof – plenty of inspiration, food and all the help you need to plan your home. Come Urbanisation is on the here to get ideas, advice and to try out the products. You can take your purchases home rise, and people are right away – unless you prefer home delivery moving into cities like or collecting at an IKEA pick-up point. never before. Value ► Smaller format IKEA store for time is more and These stores are much like the IKEA stores more important, and (including the food!), just smaller and closer we’ll be where the many to where you are. Inspiring room settings people live, work and and digital tools let you discover and order the full range, and you can buy and bring Big moves in big cities socialise. With a digital and fulfilment backbone, home most home furnishing accessories directly. Larger items will be delivered to we’re finding new ways to your home or the closest IKEA store or meet many more people IKEA pick-up point. in cities, enabling them to To reach new customers and bring IKEA closer to where people live, work conveniently access our and socialise, we’re expanding fast in several big cities. Complementing ► IKEA shop Lets you and your fellow city-dwellers total offer close to where our blue box IKEA stores, we’re adding a variety of new IKEA formats explore a specific part of our range – be they are. – always hand in hand with an improved digital experience. it bedrooms, small space living or other We will discover new home furnishing themes. All IKEA shops are B and unique formats that ringing the IKEA home furnishing offer A blue box delivery network centrally located and carry a range of items to more people isn’t just about adding In the multichannel era, logistics is key. Our you can take away on the day. Products can allow people to reach us locations and entering new countries. As network of blue box stores gives us a big be planned, ordered and purchased. more easily, including demographics and consumer behaviours change, competitive advantage when it comes to working with our Ingka we’re also looking at how we can deepen our cutting lead times and offering faster and more ► IKEA planning studio Centres colleagues to impact in the big urban areas where we already sustainable home deliveries – even for bigger Here, we offer personalised, one-on-one have a strong presence. Even in our biggest furniture and items bought online or in a city advice from our home furnishing specialists create meeting places of countries, we have a great potential to grow with a location. on solutions for kitchens, bedrooms, the future. We’ll create an storage, bathrooms and more. There are variety of formats, locations and digital customer IKEA Retail business that’s no items to bring home right away, but all meeting points that complement each other and The journey has just begun relevant to the challenges meet different needs at different times. Starting with new IKEA formats in London, Madrid, relevant products are here for you to touch and needs of people Moscow, New York and Paris, to name a few, and try. And the full range can be planned, An IKEA for every occasion ordered and purchased. living in big cities. We’ll we’re expanding fast in 40+ cities over the next strengthen the IKEA Brand, Saturday with your family at the IKEA store, an few years. In FY19, we opened 42 new stores and ► IKEA pick-up point impulse buy on your lunch break in the city, a fulfilment units, and we plan to open 50 more in An IKEA pick-up point makes it easy to co-create new models and midnight purchase on your phone. Sometimes you FY20. collect your purchases where and when services and redefine what want the full IKEA store experience; sometimes you As we keep growing, we’ll be wherever people it works for you. It’s an accessible and it means to be a good want to see a kitchen planner over coffee on your are – whenever and however they want to meet affordable alternative to home delivery or to neighbour in the city – we way to work; and sometimes you just want a new IKEA. It’s never been a more exciting time in terms bringing your products home from the store create a positive impact door mat right away. We want to make sure we are of expansion and customer focus. We’re thrilled to yourself. there when you need us. create better ways to serve our existing customers on people, society and the and keep reaching new customers. With this city ► IKEA pop-up environment. A new mix of IKEA formats expansion and our variety of digital and physical To move fast and learn, we’re testing different An IKEA pop-up highlights a specific theme, To make the full IKEA experience better than ever, formats and customer meeting points, we keep event or message. Marketing-driven and urban solutions, getting quick results and we’re investing heavily in our blue box stores. We’re working towards our vision to create a better available for a limited time only, they give also adding a mix of existing and new formats everyday life for the many people – many, many adjusting. All in order to quickly become more us a great opportunity to try out fun, bold in 40+ cities, including stores and IKEA planning more of the many people. accessible and convenient to more people. and innovative ideas. That way, we hope to studios for more complex purchases like kitchens inspire you in new and unexpected ways. and bedrooms – always closely integrated with an improved digital experience. Back to table of contents 26 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 27 In the beating heart of Paris In May 2019, we opened our first IKEA store in the heart of Paris. At IKEA La Madeleine, our focus is to create a uniquely urban customer experience, tailored to city life in general, and to the needs and dreams of Parisians in particular. T he average Parisian home is small, and IKEA La Madeleine La Scène – the event space focuses on small space solutions – with 1,500 IKEA products, It wouldn’t be Paris if we didn’t have a stage. With La Scène, including accessories and smaller furniture available to we’re interacting with Parisians in new, entertaining ways, such as and customer demand, with popular favourites including our own reach zero-emission deliveries by 2020. We are also testing electric take home right away. The rest of our product range can easily be exhibitions, workshops and concerts – as well as relaxation therapy vegan ice cream and the new veggie dog. With 1,300 food visitors a barges on the river Seine. Orders are prepared at a distribution experienced and ordered through in-store digital tools and the new and other activities focused on well-being. Here, we’re also elevating day so far, the new food concepts are giving our city customers even centre north of Paris, then transported along the Seine to the IKEA app, which just launched in France. sustainability issues related to home furnishing and life at home, like more reasons to stop by. Parisian ports of Javel, Champs-Elysées, Grands Augustins and Henri Covering an area of 5,400 m2, the store presents smart, small how to prolong the life of products, upcycling and reducing waste in IV. From there, customers can pick up their goods or have them space solutions that support Parisians in all parts of their homes. your daily life. Service in the city home delivered by bicycle. All our energy and passion are dedicated to sharing our home Being in the heart of the city gives new customers a chance to meet furnishing knowledge and delivering solutions that meet our new our co-workers and try our services. In addition to kitchen planning, Off to an exciting start city customers’ expectations, says Annie Bétreau, Store Manager, Deliveries are made with bicycles and electric we’re offering new planning services also for storage solutions and A few months after opening, we’re happy to see that 50 percent of IKEA La Madeleine.​ vehicles. We’re also testing electric barges on general home furnishing advice – all opening an hour before the the IKEA La Madeleine store’s more than 11,000 daily visitors are new store, just like the café. Co-workers equipped with tablets move to IKEA – people who would not have been able to visit us so easily the river Seine for incoming goods. Exploring the range, Paris style around the store, ready to help customers and provide home before. The city store is driving consumer interest in IKEA, not just in To create a uniquely Parisian home furnishing experience, we’re furnishing knowledge. the city but online and for the blue box IKEA stores as well. testing a new way of exploring the product range based on the way Swedish on the go Parisians live, with themes like food, socialising and recharging. Paris is the city of food, and we’re excited to bring a little bit of Bonjour, zero-emission transports By increasing our presence in cities, we’re able to bring a more Just like at home, there is no separation between furniture and Sweden to the table. Focusing on healthy and sustainable food at a Minimising our footprint and contribution to city congestion, noise accessible IKEA home furnishing offer to many more people. This accessories, which means that the sleep area includes both large low price, we’re testing new urban food concepts, like Swedish on and emissions is part of being a good neighbour. Deliveries of small makes us very excited about the future, not just for Paris, but for our furniture items (beds, mattresses) and relevant complements the go, where people passing by can grab coffee, quick bites and packages are made with bicycles, while bigger furniture are 100% city expansion as a whole. Merci! (bedding, duvets and pillows). takeaway of iconic IKEA food. The menu changes with the seasons delivered by electric vehicles, supporting the Ingka Group goal to Back to table of contents 28 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 29 Welcome to the city ► In the time taken to read this, the urban population has increased by 10 people. 23% have access to a car IKEA Vesterbro, Copenhagen, Denmark ► IKEA planning studio, opened 29 August 2019. 42 in Manhattan, NYC Moscow: the fast and the convenient IKEA Blue City openings in FY19 » IKEA stores In June 2019, we opened our first Russian city store in Moscow. Adding Warsaw, Poland » IKEA store relocations to the mix of IKEA stores, IKEA planning studios, ecommerce and next► IKEA shop, opened 24 October 2018. » IKEA planning studios day delivery, the new IKEA format makes a big move towards more » IKEA shops » Ecommerce launches accessibility for the busy people of Moscow. » Customer Support Centres L » Fulfilment units ocated in Aviapark, the largest mall deliveries of items bought both in-stores in Europe, the new IKEA Khodynskoe and online to all areas of Moscow. Pole store has a catchment area of 5 million people and is easily accessible Adding to the Moscow mix New openings in 2020 IKEA Upper East Side by public transportation, right by a metro Moscow is a good example of our total ► IKEA Harajuku, Tokyo, Japan station. With its smaller size and central market approach, capturing different location, the store has been designed for segments and situations with a variety This city location in Tokyo will focus on small New York, USA space living for the 40 million people that ► IKEA planning studio, fast and accessible shopping, with a new of IKEA formats and ecommerce that all pass by every year. Opening in spring of opened 15 April 2019. approach to display, navigation, digital support each other, Pontus continues. 2020, this IKEA shop will complement four tools and self-serve check-outs. In Moscow, we now offer three IKEA stores IKEA stores and the online IKEA shop. With this new city store, we’re connected to our MEGA shopping centres, 70% introducing a new way of shopping at IKEA. It’s designed for busy Muscovites with little one new store in the Aviapark shopping mall in central Moscow and two IKEA planning IKEA Khodynskoe ► IKEA Yangpu, Shanghai, China Our first smaller format IKEA store in time who want to complete their shopping fast, says Pontus Erntell, Country Retail studios – as well as the online store – with next-day home delivery regardless of Pole, Aviapark mall China, located in a new shopping centre in Shanghai, with a population of 26 million Manager, IKEA Retail Russia. touchpoint. Moscow, Russia people. Opening in early 2020, it will add to will be living single in ► Smaller format IKEA store, the mix of three IKEA stores and the online Tokyo in 2027 Full range on display, More city stores coming IKEA shop. opened 27 June 2019. next-day delivery With more than 11,000 visitors per day, The new store has an IKEA planning studio the IKEA Khodynskoe Pole store is our first ► IKEA Åkersgata, Oslo, Norway for kitchens and wardrobes, as well as an easy access IKEA pick-up point. The full IKEA important step into the city of Moscow. In the near future, IKEA Retail Russia is looking IKEA Bromley Our first IKEA planning studio in Oslo, complementing two existing IKEA stores IKEA Gregorio VII range is on display for customers to touch to open five to seven more small format London, UK and the online IKEA shop. Planned to open Rome, Italy and try, with a selection available to buy and stores across the country, meeting the many in the beginning of 2020. ► IKEA planning studio, ► IKEA Planning Studio, take home right away. The rest of the range people of Russia wherever and whenever opened 28 March 2019. And with more to come during 2020. opened 20 September 2019. can be ordered, and we now offer next-day they want to shop with us. Back to table of contents 30 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 31 06 Create the IKEA store of tomorrow A sneak peek at – making our stores experience centres tomorrow, today for life at home. With a pilot project in Shanghai, we’re turning our blue box stores into experience centres for life at home – engaging and entertaining like never before. By bringing home furnishing inspiration to a whole new level, we’re finding new ways to be the best destination for beautiful, smart and sustainable homes. The IKEA stores are O magical worlds of home ur blue box stores are our greatest assets, and we’re making big investments to make them shine like never We want our IKEA stores to become centres in furnishing and offer the before. In Shanghai, we’re creating a pilot for the IKEA store their communities, bringing people together total IKEA experience, and they’ll continue to be of tomorrow within the walls of the blue box store in Xuhui. The new around home furnishing and enabling concept rests on four pillars: the home furnishing experience centre, a strong part of our new the sustainable store, food as a new experience and people meeting affordable, healthy living in a fun way. reality as we transform people. Among the many innovations, IKEA Xuhui will have a big them into experience focus on sustainable, healthy and circular lifestyle choices that are The store of tomorrow will also have a strong sustainability profile, accessible and affordable for the many people. After the Shanghai based on key learnings from our IKEA Kaarst and IKEA Greenwich centres for life at home. Turning our blue box stores pilot, Milan and New York will be next. stores (read more on page 64), and a focus on good and healthy We’ll bring home furnishing food. We want food to be a totally new experience, moving from the inspiration and knowledge An engaging place that’s much more than a furniture store – it current canteen to an entertaining food court experience, offering a into a home delivery network to a whole new level will be an engaging place to explore home furnishing in new and culinary trip to Sweden, continues Ines. The transformation of the and become the best different ways. For example, with augmented reality you can see, IKEA Xuhui store will be completed in just one year. That way, we’ll experience or co create the latest trends, says Ines Silva, Project be able to evaluate the initiative before 2021, when our three-year destination for beautiful, In the new multichannel world of retail, turning our network of IKEA stores into Leader, IKEA store of tomorrow, Ingka Group. transformational journey is being summed up. smart and sustainable homes. We’ll also make fulfilment units is a big competitive advantage when it comes to faster, more them key components in affordable and sustainable home deliveries. A pilot project in Madrid leads the way. I our fulfilment network as n a time when customers want fast and Thanks to three simple but major changes, the they also can fulfil online affordable home deliveries – also of bigger store is now a fulfilment unit for the entire Madrid orders, which enables furniture items – having a network of 374 stores area. First, the store adjusted the self-service us to live up to customer with big logistics capabilities close to where our furniture area to customers’ needs in terms of lead time and quality customers live is a huge advantage. By decreasing what goes to the check out area and what goes to expectations. the self-serve furniture areas and increasing the home delivery. fulfilment areas, we can offer better services like We can already see that the result is a more home delivery and off-hour pickups, whether efficient process, says Laia. Second, a 16-metre you bought your items in your local store, in locker solution was installed outside of the store, the city or online. By using our existing stores allowing customers to pick up their online orders as local fulfilment units, we’ll be able to meet 24 hours a day – a big step towards a more our customers’ demand for faster and more accessible shopping experience. sustainable home deliveries at affordable prices. And we’re able to secure a vast logistics network of Third, an unused parking space underneath local delivery hubs that can handle the substantial the store is being transformed into an outbound online growth we’re planning for, says Laia Blanch, delivery area. The idea is to use it to store orders Project Manager, IKEA Retail, Ingka Group. that can now go straight to customers – instead As fulfilment hubs, the IKEA stores will handle of being transported via a delivery company first. not only home deliveries for items bought at the We have 137 stores built on pillars with parking store but also orders placed online, at IKEA city underneath, just like IKEA Alcorcón and see great stores and IKEA planning studios or at Customer potential for a speedy rollout at a limited cost. Support Centres. Deliveries will be faster and With a better sense of what our customers transports shorter, enabling more sustainable want and need and where our co-workers see transportation like electric vehicles and bicycles, room for improvement, we’re able to quickly and resulting in lower CO2 emissions. change our ways of working. And it’s our coworkers who make it happen. It’s their curiosity Making it happen in Madrid and resourcefulness that make it possible for us to One IKEA store leading the way in logistics move forward this fast, Laia finishes. transformation is IKEA Alcorcón in Madrid, Spain. Back to table of contents 32 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 33 07 A clean energy movement Create a people and planet positive IKEA. We’ve helped our customers transform their rooftops into clean energy power stations. Now, we want to build the biggest clean energy community in the world – enabling more people to save money and cut their emissions. S ince 2015, our IKEA Home Solar and costs and climate footprints. For those who live energy storage offer has helped thousands in apartments or who can’t afford the upfront We have started the of customers generate and use their own investment in their own solar panel system, we’re journey to become people clean electricity. It’s good for the environment exploring new solutions such as a clean energy and planet positive. Now and for the pocketbook – our IKEA Home Solar subscription offer. This offer will help customers customers saved, on average, EUR 400 per year on access renewable electricity and guide them to we’ll go all in and, together their energy bills. We want to help create a clean other relevant services like efficient heating and with stakeholders across energy movement beyond our own operations, cooling solutions, LED bulbs or kitchen appliances. IKEA and society, develop says Alejandro Castro Pérez, IKEA Home Solar & We’re looking into the potential for other clean a sustainable business Energy Service Business Leader, Ingka Group. By energy services too, including electric vehicle model for home furnishing. getting our customers and our partners to come charging. on the journey with us, we’ll create a ripple effect We’ll put sustainability and increase our positive impact. We want to accelerate the transition away from at the core of our offer, fossil fuels by making the clean energy market truly understanding and A home solar revolution more accessible and affordable for all. The aim pre-empting changing Our home solar business grew by 29% last year, is to build the biggest and most inclusive clean customer and societal and together our solar customers generated 60% energy community, together with our co-workers, Rent-a-BILLY, lease a couch needs. We’ll co-create more clean energy than the year before. So far, customers and partners around the world. we’ve rolled out the offer in seven countries, and sustainable living solutions we aim to reach all 30 Ingka Group countries with and circular services with IKEA Home Solar and other clean energy solutions our customers. by 2025. With furniture leasing, we’re testing new and more circular ways for our Clean energy, more accessible customers to use, care for and pass on their IKEA furniture. With IKEA Energy Services, we aim to make it even L easier for more people to reduce their energy ife at home has different needs for different stages. Your In the Netherlands, we offered furniture leasing to students. In child may need a baby crib for a little while, then a child’s Switzerland, we created an offer for business customers, allowing bed and then a teenage bunk. Or maybe you’re living in a them to spread the cost over a longer period and to change their temporary home or setting up a home office in the basement. Our furniture as their business evolved. In Sweden, we offered leasing research shows that customers don’t like to throw things away, but of a mix of new and used furniture. The results so far have been they sometimes only need our furniture for a set period of time. positive, with clear sustainability benefits from extending the What if our customers could use their IKEA furniture for as long as life of materials and resources. We’ve also had good feedback they need to, without having to own it? That’s the concept behind from customers who appreciate the flexibility, affordability and furniture as a service, a new circular business model we’re testing. sustainability benefits of this approach. Our goal: to see if we can meet customer needs for flexibility and We aim for all our countries to contribute to testing furniture as accessibility, while building in sustainability by extending the life of a service in 2020, building towards larger-scale pilots in the future. our products and reducing waste. The learnings will enable us to tailor our offer to meet customer needs and preferences, as well as work on some of the practical What if our customers could use their challenges, such as how to store furniture between rentals. IKEA furniture for as long as they need to, For this business model to achieve its full potential, we need to without having to own it? work together across the IKEA value chain to fine-tune every aspect of the offer. For example, as part of the ambition to transform IKEA During FY19, we began several small-scale tests exploring the into a circular business, Inter IKEA Group is integrating leasability 400 feasibility, viability and desirability of different approaches and into its product development approach. This means that we’ll be able EUR subscription models. The core idea is that customers lease the to offer more IKEA home furnishing products designed for the rental furniture, which we maintain and repair as needed during the market, including tougher finishes and even more durable materials. leasing period. Upon return, we clean, refurbish and make the Read more about how we’re promoting circular consumption on Each customer saved furniture ready for its next home. When the furniture has been page 66. on average EUR 400 per year reused as many times as possible, we recycle the materials and on their energy bill. IKEA home solar customers Dario and Ljuba, Switzerland components. Back to table of contents 34 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 35 08 Earning points that 09 Create always-on Create a simpler and growth – offering many more great make a difference better IKEA designed for the future – with reasons to visit IKEA. In times of fast change, we’re more focused than ever on building meaningful less time planning customer relationships. IKEA Family is testing a new loyalty programme that lets LEDARE and more time doing. customers donate part of their purchase to a good cause of their choice. LED bulb 1000 lumen € 5.99 W ith over 141 million members in 30 We need to ensure that countries, IKEA Family is one of the We’re proud to amplify customer A low-price company every one of us works biggest customer clubs in the world. awareness of the IKEA commitment must also be a low-cost closely to achieve healthy Now we want to make it the most member centric to people and the planet and to company, and costone. A club that’s not only about great benefits, and sustainable growth. offers and discounts – but also about connecting help drive deeper connections with consciousness is part To do so, we’ll have an with members in more personal and meaningful customers, especially young ones. of who we are. We’ll Simple actions always-on mindset for ways that go beyond traditional rewards and work with a holistic cost Initial results indicate that twice as growth and provide the incentives. performance approach to Together with the values-based loyalty service many pilot participants said they many people with many reduce unnecessary costs for big savings more reasons to visit Beam Impact, we’re testing a new, purposewere likely to recommend IKEA to and build the prerequisites led rewards programme in two stores in New friends compared to the market IKEA, through our stores York. Instead of collecting points and receiving to make investments that and digital experiences, discounts, IKEA Family members can let IKEA baseline. create profitable growth 365 days a year. We’ll be donate a percentage of their purchase to a good Viveka Hulyalkar, To keep our prices low, we’re always looking to simplify and reduce unnecessary as well as reducing costs. cause of their choice, with no extra cost to them. Beam Impact CEO and Co-founder more responsive and costs. Energy savings is one area where a few simple steps can lead to big cost Cost performance will provide customers with focus on small and big We’re exploring how values-based rewards The partnership with Beam is a result of the IKEA savings, while also helping to reach our sustainability goals. more personalised offers, can be connected to different social missions and Bootcamp programme, where we team up with initiatives. We’ll build B rewards, support or engage our members in new, meaningful ways. growth-stage start-ups to co-create innovative eing resourceful and cost-conscious is part switching to 100% LED lighting, installing motion scale and efficiency in solutions, whenever they By letting members donate part of their spend to retail solutions (read more on page 15). Going of who we are and is necessary in order to detectors for lighting and turning off equipment customer fulfilment flows, have a need for it, in the causes they like, often local ones that they have a forward, we’ll scale the learnings from the New transform our business and become even that’s not in use, co-workers managed to decrease simplify and automate on relationship to, our members get to contribute to York pilot as we continue to develop personalised more affordable. In FY19, we rolled out several the store’s energy use with 17%, leading to cost channels they choose. a global scale, accelerate a better everyday life for others – and so do we, rewards programmes with more tests in several initiatives to simplify our ways of working and cut savings of EUR 50,000 per year. says Aaron Mitchell, Global Customer Engagement countries. costs. For example, we improved our reporting digital delivery and and Loyalty Manager, Ingka Group. processes and continued to automate, standardise The simplest way to cut costs and save energy ensure our strong retail and digitalise new tools across our business. is to switch to LED lights. It’s easy to implement, foundations. We also look and the return on investment is very fast, says at efficiencies in marketing, Good savings that do good Mariusz Podgorski, Energy and Climate Manager, in-house deliveries and We also saw how a few simple actions can have IKEA Retail Poland. Turning off equipment when procurement. To enable a big impact when it comes to cost savings on it’s not in use is another easy fix that makes a big energy. In a typical IKEA store, lighting makes difference. This can be lights, air conditioning, investments in creating up 30-40% of the total energy consumption and computers, kitchen equipment – the list goes on, a new IKEA, we’ll use our restaurant equipment up to 25%. One example Mariusz continues. resources in a responsible of how energy efficiency measures can cut costs way with a long-term is IKEA Katowice in Poland. By, for example, The simplest way to cut costs and perspective. introducing an energy monitoring system, save energy is to switch to LED lights. It’s easy to implement, and has fast return on investment. The power of co-worker engagement A firm believer in the power of co-workers when it comes to simplifying, Mariusz attributes the Polish cost-cutting success to strong co-worker engagement. We’re all responsible for our energy consumption, to a larger or smaller extent. Knowing where energy can be saved can make Mariusz Podgorski, Energy and Climate Manager, IKEA Retail Poland huge savings in our budget while reducing our carbon emissions at the same time, he concludes. Back to table of contents 36 / our business / ikea retail our business / ikea retail / 37 The IKEA values 10 Our shared values and strong Supporting refugees Create a people culture make IKEA unique, both as movement and make our culture and values a living a place to work and as a brand. Our values are: with jobs training reality – unleashing ► Togetherness – Togetherness is at As we scale up our skills for employment programmes, we offer the heart of the IKEA culture. We are training and work experience to people with refugee backgrounds to the potential of us all. strongest when we trust each other, pull in the same direction and have fun improve their chances of finding jobs, at Ingka Group and elsewhere. O together. ur skills for employment My next step is to be Team Leader, then Our customers want ► Caring for people and planet – We initiatives help refugees gain Supervisor, then Manager, then Store to meet engaged, want to be a force for positive change. work experience, practice local Manager, Samer says with a smile. competent and We have the possibility to make a language, develop new skills and improve significant and lasting impact – today their opportunities of finding a job – also serviceminded co-workers to connect with locals, make new friends By including refugees in and for the generations to come. at every IKEA customer and increase their understanding of our business, we benefit meeting point. To make ► Cost-consciousness – As many the local culture. After completing the from their talents, skills, sure that we have the people as possible should be able to training, participants are invited to apply afford a beautiful and functional home. for a job at Ingka Group. Every single diversity and different prerequisites to meet our We constantly challenge ourselves and store that’s carried out the initiative points of view. customers, we’ll develop others to make more from less without has found it to be mutually enriching, ourselves and lead our compromising on quality. giving both participants and co-workers In countries where refugees and asylum business into the future new perspectives and opening up to seekers aren’t allowed to work, we seek to ► Simplicity – A simple, straightforward by learning and building alternative ways of thinking. Refugees who influence opinion by sharing the positive and down-to-earth way of being is part new capabilities together. have joined us as co-workers are highly experiences we’ve had from our initiatives. of our Smålandic heritage. It is about We grow from within, committed and show a high tendency to We’re also partnering with organisations being ourselves and staying close to stay with the company. like the UNHCR and the Tent Partnership we welcome new talent reality. We are informal, pragmatic and for Refugees to share examples of the who share our values see bureaucracy as our biggest enemy. Having a job when you’re new in the UK, positive contribution refugees make to and we develop the next ► Renew and improve – We are or as a refugee, is very important. Without businesses and host communities when Our culture and values generation of leaders. We constantly looking for new and better this programme, I don’t think I would have they have the right support. will unleash the potential ways forward. Whatever we are doing got a job. It gave me more confidence, today, we can do better tomorrow. says Samer Al Haffar, a former refugee Since FY18, we have run refugee of people and go all in in times of change Finding solutions to almost impossible from Syria who joined IKEA Retail UK inclusion programmes in 13 countries. By on equality – ensuring challenges is part of our success and a after completing a programme with our FY22, we’ll scale up these initiatives in 300 that Ingka Group is a source of inspiration to move on to the partner Breaking Barriers. First hired as a IKEA stores, offices, Distribution Centres good example of equality, next challenge. cashier, Samer quickly advanced to Shift and Ingka Centres meeting places across diversity and inclusion. Coordinator at the IKEA Wembley store. all Ingka Group countries. As we transform Ingka Group to be a more digital, connected and innovative ► Different with a meaning – We are retailer, we all need to change how we work and adopt new ways of doing things. not like other companies and we don’t want to be. We like to question existing Samer Al Haffar, Shift Coordinator, B ut one thing that will never change is our – working on their self-awareness, emotional solutions, think in unconventional ways, IKEA Wembley store, the UK commitment to live our values. In fact, intelligence and the importance of leading with experiment and dare to make mistakes in times of change, our values are more compassion in complex times. The programme – always for a good reason. important than ever – helping us maintain our included a strong focus on making values-based ► Give and take responsibility – We strong culture and make the right decisions. To decisions that positively impact our customers, believe in empowering people. Giving support our leaders with the tools they need to ourselves and our planet. Values-based leadership and taking responsibility are ways lead through big changes, we’ve developed a new encourages experimentation, collaboration and to grow and develop as individuals. leadership approach with Inter IKEA Group, called continuous learning and will remain at the core of Trusting each other, being positive and Leadership in a new era. The approach defines our leadership approach. forward-looking inspires everyone to effective leadership based on three themes to help As leaders we must walk the talk and show how contribute to development. us deliver an excellent co-worker and customer we lead with our values every day. The programme experience: entrepreneurship of the many; was a game-changer for me – how we need to ► Lead by example – We see leadership performance with meaning, and working together. relearn, innovate and show with our actions how as an action, not a position. We look for In FY19, we ran a development programme to we’re transforming. Being able to share, learn and people’s values before competence and help leaders adopt this new approach. Through gain new tools and insights has made me a more experience. People who ‘walk the talk’ events, experiential workshops and coaching, self-aware and confident leader, says Helene von and lead by example. It is about being participants explored the new mindsets and Reis, Country Retail Manager, IKEA Retail Japan. our best self and bringing out the best behaviours required to lead in this new era in each other. Back to table of contents 38 / our business / ingka investments our business / ingka investments / 39 Ingka Investments portfolios INGKA INVESTMENTS Accelerating growth ► Business Development Investments This portfolio focuses on investments in, and acquisitions of, ► Renewable Energy In this portfolio, we invest in renewable energy assets such as wind through investments innovative companies that can strengthen our IKEA Retail business and solar power. In FY19, we produced renewable energy equivalent with new capabilities and services. Recent investments in kitchen to 93% of the energy we use in our operations, and we’ll reach our planning and installation company Traemand and services goal of 100% by 2020. Our ownership and commitments include marketplace TaskRabbit are good examples of this approach, 534 wind turbines in 14 countries, and two solar energy farms with Through Ingka Investments, we make strategic investments and offering our customers new ways to access flexible and affordable 715,000 solar modules under construction in the USA. In addition, services. Both companies are active in Canada and the USA and are there are 920,000 solar modules on our store and warehouse acquisitions that secure our long-term financial strength and support rolling out operations in Europe. rooftops. New investments include an offshore wind farm in our growth, business transformation and sustainability goals. Germany, wind farms in Romania and solar farms in the USA. Since ► Prioritised City Real Estate 2009, we’ve invested close to EUR 2.5 billion in renewable energy. O ur financial approach is unique. new technology and business models, This portfolio makes investments in top-location real estate in 200 million We have a saying that you should we’lll continue to invest in companies prioritised cities in order to support a faster execution of the ► Forestland earn it before you spend it and not focusing on retail services, digital innovation prioritised city strategy of IKEA Retail. Such investments will only be The Forestland portfolio has a focus on responsible forestland rely on external funding. With this discipline and a circular economy. We believe that EUR considered if we can open an IKEA store in the building. We secure ownership that preserves and increases the forest quality for over the last 75 years, Ingka Group has built acquisitions will help us move faster and real estate ownership instead of leasing and preserve value on a generations to come. Our high internal standards for sustainable up a very strong liquidity position of over learn quicker as we improve and broaden invested in 21 companies over long-term basis. forest management include certification by the Forest Stewardship EUR 20 billion. The majority of our liquidity our service offering. In FY19, for example, the past three years Council (FSC®), which means that our forests are inspected annually is invested in low-risk securities that are we invested in Traemand, our kitchen ► Venture & Growth Capital to ensure compliance. So far, we’ve invested in forests in the aligned with our values and the principles planning and installation partner in the Included in this portfolio are minority investments in cutting-edge Baltic States, Romania and the USA. As per year-end FY19, we own 2.5 billion of environmental, social and governance USA. It’s a collaboration that led to an companies, including start-ups, that can create synergies for our approximately 210,000 hectares of forestland1. In FY19, we planted (ESG) investing. As a self-funded company, investment that will enable more of our IKEA core business. This allows us to broaden our investment landscape 6.7 million seedlings. we keep a strong focus on investing for the long term, all while being focused on customers to have a seamless experience all the way from inspiration, measurement EUR and diversify our financial risk and return profile. In FY19, we invested in home renovation and design platform Livspace; recycling ► Financial Markets Investments delivering a strong performance every day. and planning to installation and customer invested in renewable companies RetourMatras, Umincorp and NGR; reverse logistics This is our main portfolio where we invest the majority of our support. energy since 2009 provider Optoro; and small space robotics furniture company Ori. liquidity in order to safeguard the long-term financial strength As we’re transforming our business, and independence of Ingka Group. These are investments in fixed we also take a more dynamic approach Engaging with innovators income (bonds), listed equities and alternative funds concentrating to investments and acquisitions, aiming We also make minority shareholding on infrastructure financing. We avoid undesired sectors, and we 920,000 to actively support our core business investments in companies without an develop and explore the possibilities to invest with a positive ESG development and sustainability goals. immediate aim to integrate them into our selection within the constraints of our mandate. We invest in minority and majority business. It’s essential to constantly gain shareholdings in innovative companies that new insights in consumer and shopping solar modules on our store support speeding up our transformation behaviours, new technologies and in areas such as digitalisation and services. business models, and we’re determined to and warehouse rooftops We also invest in circularity, renewable collaborate with these fast-paced innovators energy and forestland. We work closely and entrepreneurs to stay on top of this 715,000 with all areas of Ingka Group to align our constantly evolving landscape. investments with our business needs, and we want to make a positive difference in the We need to be wherever our customers societies where we invest. want us to be, which means that we We’re engaging with cutting-edge need to become even more affordable, solar modules under companies that are developing new accessible and sustainable. By putting our construction in two solar technologies, solutions and business models excess liquidity to work, Ingka Investments parks in the USA that can help accelerate our business will continue to secure our financial transformation and reach our sustainability independence and play a key role in goals. We’ve invested approximately EUR transforming our business in order to meet 534 200 million in 23 companies to date, as the needs of our customers, today as well as we’re looking to disrupt rather than to be tomorrow. disrupted, says Krister Mattsson, Managing Director, Ingka Investments. wind turbines in Supporting our IKEA business 14 countries To help speed up our business development and transformation, and as a way to access 1 Ingka Group owned forests do not currently directly supply raw material for the IKEA range. Back to table of contents 40 / our business / ingka investments our business / ingka investments / 41 At the cutting edge with venture and growth capital Sus tain text able ile g Inter robo ior tics a cturin Through our Venture & Growth Capital portfolio, we make minority investments ma nu f ho Pla in fast-moving companies that support our retail transformation and ambition d an me fo t an ure d f to become people and planet positive. t re u r Fo ag od ul n fo ing Re rm ish ion T ric rn at o reach our business and sustainability goals as fast as invested capital. Six new investments were closed in FY19, and the ta ov possible, we’re joining forces with other companies, including Venture & Growth Capital portfolio now has 18 active companies. EA i start-ups, through different types of investments. While our IK la Business Development Investments portfolio is focused on direct Three examples in FY19: l ar nd hen Kitc business needs and more mature companies, the Venture & Growth Plast ic tions Circu Ser Capital portfolio has a broader approach, looking at new companies ► RetourMatras is a Dutch company that recycles mattresses and is recyc talla li ng in strategic areas like retail and services, digital innovation and a key contributor towards a circular economy through an automated ins vices circularity. process that makes it possible to recycle more than 90% of the materials in a mattress. RetourMatras will scale up their recycling With Venture & Growth Capital investments, we explore and learn capacity, initially growing to 1 million mattresses per year in the from the latest technologies, solutions and business models. Our Netherlands – and possibly in other IKEA Retail countries. ambition is to help shape the IKEA of tomorrow, with bold moves em a ress nd that can help our business leapfrog into the future. We work in ► Livspace is a home renovation and design platform in India, with Matt serv ling ices recyc close collaboration with co-workers throughout the organisation to international expansion plans, that connects consumers, suppliers On -d identify possible investment and acquisition opportunities and to and service providers in a seamless way. Livspace manages the align our activities with the business needs for the 10 jobs in three whole process from design to liveable rooms, helping people years initiatives. with everything from tiling and plumbing to home furnishing and ig io D n installation services. This investment marks our commitment to ita t Accelerating in 2019 India and Asia and enables potential business collaborations. fo Pl lisa n ova w a tion and I tFY19 was a year of acceleration for the Venture & Growth Capital an re od p ba pa sed n nt ste io od en portfolio, with new and follow-on investments doubling our total ► Optoro based in the USA, is a provider of a software platform ra Fo ev tio pr for reverse logistics for retailers. It allows goods to be returned, n processed and resold in an efficient way, thereby reducing waste LED rt tec Sma and CO2 pollution. The platform has the potential to significantly hno tics lo gy logis improve the way retailers manage their returns and reverse logistics flows, creating a better customer experience and helping to accelerate the transition towards a circular economy. We’re open for business ► The goal of our Business Development Investments and Venture & Growth Capital portfolios is to support Our active investments and accelerate our business, growth and transformation. Global Cleantech Top 100 Therefore, we work closely with co-workers throughout Three of our recent investments, Aerofarms (indoor urban Ingka Group, from global functions to local organisations farming), Terramera (bio-pesticides) and Optoro (reverse and partners, to identify possible investment and acquisition logistics), have been listed on the 2019 Global Cleantech opportunities that can help our business and speed up With minority and majority shareholding investments, we 100, a list of companies with the highest potential to make growth initiatives. continue to focus even more on investments in prioritised areas the most significant market impact within the next 5-10 We’re also actively looking to learn more about new that support our retail business. We’re ramping up investments years. A fourth investment, XL (vehicle electrification), companies in relevant sectors that share our values, made it to the 2019 Global Cleantech Ones to Watch list. where we both could benefit from a closer collaboration, and acquisitions in retail tech, including digital, customer investment or acquisition. fulfilment, sustainability and a range of services including Read more about Global Cleantech Top 100 here: logistics and delivery services. www.cleantech.com/the-global-cleantech-100 Back to table of contents 42 / our business / ingka centres our business / ingka centres / 43 INGKA CENTRES Vibrant meeting places with a blue-and-yellow heart We’re moving from the traditional notion of shopping centres to an innovative concept we call meeting places. Always anchored by an IKEA store, our Ingka Centres meeting places offer a unique mix of activities and experiences that bring value to the local communities. W ith 45 locations in 15 countries transformation, while at the same time and 480 million visitors a year, outperforming our goals on visitation, Ingka Centres is a main driver sales income and cost-reduction targets, in our business transformation to become says Gerard Groener, Managing Director, more accessible to more people. We’re Ingka Centres. We’re now bringing our 7.3 billion transforming our centres from spaces where business closer to the people who work people simply shop, to places where people can also learn, experience, meet other in our meeting places, as well as the local communities, listening to our many visitors EUR From shopping centres to hyper-connected microcities people and connect with their communities. and designing our offer according to their investment to transform That’s what we call meeting places – and needs and aspirations. the business all of them feature an integrated IKEA store, our blue-and-yellow heart. We also work More digital, more sustainable with local and international partners, for a In FY20, Ingka Centres will focus on two Vasco Santos, Sales and Leasing Manager at Ingka Centres, talks about our work in FY19 to create 4 million total of more than 1,600 brands, operating main areas: becoming a more digital a new kind of meeting places that engages people and brings local communities together. over 7,000 shops. To create a varied and business and finding new ways to W engaging experience for our visitors, we collaborate with partners and communities e’ve continued to map the customer journey in order We have been searching and testing new ways to simplify the collaborate with IKEA Retail, our partners, to become more sustainable. We’ll continue m leasable area 2 to develop new and more personalised experiences. customer journey. In LUZ Shopping, Jerez, Spain, we opened the local authorities and the many people that to understand the needs and drivers of The one-size-fits-all format doesn’t work for us at Ingka LEGO Fan Factory, a playground that’s just as fun for kids as it is a visit our meeting places every day. the digital customer. Investing in digital Centres. When we adjust our offer to people’s wishes, performance safe and convenient place for parents to leave their children while development will allow us to get closer to grows and satisfaction soars. visiting the stores. 480 million our customers and expand the range of We’re now bringing our services we can offer, Gerard says. We’re revisiting the floor plans to make our meeting places business closer to the people We’re working towards being powered more relevant. In some cases, we’ve reorganised to make more Each Ingka Centres meeting place is unique, who work in our meeting by 100% renewable energy and recycling visitors a year room for social activities or a better food experience. In Avion developed to meet the specific needs of the 100% of our waste, whilst reducing Shopping Park, Bratislava, Slovakia, we transformed a previous places, as well as the local local community. greenhouse gas emissions. Together with hypermarket area into a nice and comfortable food area. This communities. our partners, we’re also developing offers became the heart of the meeting place, where people come to eat 7,000 Gerard Groener, Managing and experiences that can inspire and enable and socialise. We want to explore personalisation even further. Experience, Director, Ingka Centres our customers to live healthier and more leisure, entertainment and community are what’s shaping the sustainable lives. We welcomed new brands that our customers want. In FY19, evolution of the offer of our meeting places, turning them into Throughout FY19, we’ve taken a leap shops and 1,600 brands more than 200 international brands joined us for the first time. And hyper-connected microcities, connecting consumers, retailers and in our journey to create meeting places. another 600 brands, that were already our partners, opened new communities though different activities and experiences. We’ve managed to go through a massive stores or refurbished existing ones within our meeting places. Back to table of contents 44 / our business / ingka centres our business / ingka centres / 45 A meeting place to call home With a total investment of almost EUR 510 million, Ingka Centres will soon open our fourth meeting place in China, this time with an innovative concept that integrates the meeting place with 30,000 m2 of IKEA-inspired homes. W hat if we could take our cities as well as unique opportunities for meeting place concept a international and local partners seeking a FY19 highlights step further and transform spot in the fast-growing Chinese market. our centres into places where you can As Jan Kristensson, Expansion and ► Sign language translator – To support feel truly at home – or even actually live Development Manager, Ingka Centres, our hearing-impaired visitors and create a in real homes? That’s the idea behind explains: LIVAT Changsha will feature great shopping experience for everyone, the development of our new centre in social spaces, gyms, reading areas and our Aleja Bielany meeting place in Wroclaw, Changsha, southern China. Set to open in FIKA Swedish-style coffee spaces. The Poland, now offers an instant video call 2020 under our LIVAT brand, the meeting development marks a new step for us, service with a sign language translator. place will include an IKEA store, 350 tenant moving away from a traditional approach, units, 3,500 car park spaces and something as we follow our customers to create ► Taking care of surplus food – Re-Food absolutely unique for an Ingka Centre: communities that engage them based on is a project that enables people to have a 30,000 m2 of IKEA-inspired apartments. The their changing requirements. positive impact on their community and project aims to cover all aspects of life and environment by reducing food waste, while work, turning LIVAT Changsha into a vital The meeting place will Integrating the meeting place helping others at the same time. At MAR hub for the community. Shopping Matosinhos in Portugal, a group The interior design for the apartments include an IKEA store, 350 of volunteers regularly collect surplus and commercial units will be created in stores, 3,500 car park with the IKEA store food from the meeting place’s restaurants, collaboration with IKEA Retail China, with supermarkets and cafés. The food is then a focus on functionality and small space spaces and 30,000 m2 of classified, sorted and distributed to local living. In a market study conducted before IKEA-inspired apartments. In FY19, Ingka Centres launched a new integration project to allow visitors to families in need. construction, locals named relaxed and enjoyable as the two most important experience the IKEA range in new ways – and move more seamlessly between ► Digital Mall in China – Launched a year feelings they wanted the new meeting place Sustainability in focus the IKEA store and the rest of the meeting place. ago in LIVAT Wuxi, the Digital Mall is a loyalty to convey – something that will also be The Changsha project has achieved our programme based on WeChat, China’s taken into account. first LEED Silver precertification1, in China. O ur first pilot was the MEGA meeting place in them later. Reactions from customers and visitors have been very largest social media platform. By using the Some of the sustainability initiatives include: Ekaterinburg, Russia. The driving idea was to increase positive, and an index growth of planned visits to MEGA and IKEA app, registered LIVAT Family members can Mixing spaces, services electricity savings through insulation and spontaneous visits from the meeting place to the IKEA store have increased from 18% to 40%. collect points on their spending, redeem and opportunities solar modules; water savings through and vice versa and to inspire visitors with IKEA home furnishing gift coupons, enjoy special offers, navigate With its innovative concept and strategic a rainwater recycling system; and the already at the entrance of the store. By including IKEA in the shopA seamless shopping experience the meeting place and much more. New location, the Changsha mixed-use project installation of charging stations for electric browsing route for all visitors and opening up new entry points to In May 2019, four of our meeting places supported the IKEA launch features in FY19 include smart parking, offers quality living and work spaces for vehicles to support more sustainable the store, we created better access to both the IKEA store and the of TÄNKVÄRD limited edition collection with Look and feel festivals real-time navigation and shopping festivals local people wanting to move closer to transportation. IKEA restaurant, with simplified check-out points at the entrance and that attracted more than 9,000 people. The format included for members. The project has shown great in the seasonal shop. fashion shows where people were invited to model on the runway, results and is about to be rolled out globally. To amplify commercial benefits and bring out synergies, we’ve as well as talks, lectures and workshops arranged together with ► A unique food experience in Bratislava been working hard to find new ways to inspire people with the IKEA IKEA. In August and September, we created awareness around – In the Avion Shopping Park in Bratislava, range and to encourage and enable cross-visitation between the the SYMFONISK collection of lamps and bookshelves with built-in Slovakia, we made room for a new food meeting place and the store, Enzhia Vafina, IKEA Retail Integration speakers created in collaboration with Sonos. Thanks to inspiring area with 650 seats in eight different Mission Leader, Ingka Centres. We also opened a common wardrobe pop-up areas in seven meeting places, 137,000 visitors could zones, a relax area, an exterior terrace, and info desk, allowing customers to leave their bags and collect experience the sound of SYMFONISK. 14 operators, three kiosks, two cafés and two entertainment units for kids. But Thanks to these integration projects, what makes it really unique is the design, architecture and cosy atmosphere. we’ve seen lots more visitors entering the IKEA stores and getting inspired by ► Wola Fun Park – Together with our partner SportZone, we created a fantastic our home furnishing expertise. space for teenagers in our Wola Park meeting place in Poland. A combination of At the same time, we had the chance to identify different store and sports facility, Wola Fun Park is components we’re now developing even further to test in FY20. an innovative concept offering teenagers We still have some work ahead, but we’re getting better and better affordable products, while bringing people 1 LEED certification provides independent verification of a building or neighbourhood’s sustainable at creating a whole new, exciting way to experience IKEA in our together around sports, like skateboarding, features, allowing for the design, construction, operations and maintenance of resource-efficient, high meeting places, Enzhia finishes. at the same time. performing, healthy, cost-effective buildings. Back to table of contents Our business on two rows Our people Chapter preamble ditas quis dis restiaectat arum estion rem reperia spietur at asperum hicipitatem qui sunt erae. Ratum dem quam voluptio. Creating a people movement  48 Creating a great co-worker experience  54 Article one inand Recruitment thiscompetence section  00 Article fourhealth, Improving section  and in this well-being 00 Article two in this development  section  00 49 Article five in safety this section occupational   00 55 Going three Article all in equality in on   this section 00 52 Back to table of contents 48 / our people OUR PEOPLE / RECRUITMENT AND COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT / 49 Creating a people movement At the heart of our business are the 166,200 people in our organisation. Nothing would be possible without the committed and talented co-workers across IKEA Retail, Ingka Centres and Ingka Investments. W e want our customers to creating a meaningful workplace meet engaged, competent and that enables our people to grow Recruitment and service-minded co-workers who and develop, empowering them to understand life at home, help make their create the best customer experience dreams a reality and solve their needs and possible. problems. 166,200 competence development We are purpose-led and want to attract » A modern, lean and agile people who share our vision and values. We Ingka fit for growth. To build aim to provide a workplace where people for performance, we challenge can be themselves, and where everyone has ourselves to be more innovative. We co-workers the conditions and competence to perform organise with simplicity and clarity The way we recruit and develop our co-workers is important to achieving our business successfully and to grow as professionals to ensure faster decision-making, and people goals. We aim to recruit based on our values and to continuously innovate and individuals. and we invest in technology to add With our people strategy, we’ll take our value to both business and people. in how we attract talent. business into a new era by developing new W capabilities, mindsets and ways of working, The world is changing fast, and the e are increasing our focus on competence development, while staying grounded in our culture retail sector is being disrupted by new so we can grow more of our talent from within, providing We’ve taken a proactive approach to and values. Our strategy has three central business models and ever-changing Gender-balance in opportunities for co-workers to develop their skills and competence development so that we can pillars: consumer behaviours. This creates risks management positions capabilities while achieving our business objectives. deliver and upskilling our co-workers, so and opportunities for our business and our » People choose Ingka for what we approach to people management, including: Recruiting with our values they’re ready to take on the jobs of the future. stand for. We are a values-driven growing competition for talent; changing During FY19, we recruited 32,571 new co-workers. We select Pernille Hagild, Leadership & Competence 81% company, committed to attracting, competence requirements; and the impact co-workers who share our values, since this helps to strengthen and Development Manager, Ingka Group recruiting and retaining talent of automation and digitalisation on the sustain our culture and uniqueness as we transform our business. and to driving equality across the retail sector. Our people strategy helps We’ve developed a digital toolbox of resources to support our We’re focusing on increasing the number of co-workers with organisation and, together with our us to find solutions to these challenges recruiters in values-based recruitment. This includes asking potential digital skills. To support this, we’ve launched a global social media partners, in society at large. and to benefit from new opportunities by of co-workers believe co-workers about their strengths and motivations, so we can identify recruitment campaign to raise our profile with people who may not enabling us to attract and retain the right Ingka Group is a great those who share our values and are best suited to thrive in our have previously considered Ingka Group as a potential employer. » Engaged Ingka people with people, develop the right competences place to work culture – rather than having a narrow focus on qualifications and This campaign emphasises our focus on culture and purpose in customers at heart. We provide and maintain co-worker engagement and experience. Once on the job, every co-worker is recognised for how order to differentiate our business and attract applicants who share a great co-worker experience by resilience to change. they live our values as part of our job chats and through feedback. our vision to side with the many people. ►►► Back to table of contents 50 / OUR PEOPLE / RECRUITMENT AND COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT OUR PEOPLE / RECRUITMENT AND COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT / 51 IKEA Services BV 2015 아직도 IKEA에 출근할 때 설레요 Gracy Kantzabedian, 저의 IKEA 여정은 호주에서 CR코워커로 시작되었어요. 그 때 IKEA의 가치와 사람을 존중하는 방식을 Coding Bootcamp graduate 느끼며 잠재되어있던 저의 꿈와 열정을 찾게 되었어요. 지금은 ‘CSC는 IKEA의 얼굴이며 이미지를 결정하는 곳’이라고 생각하면서, 저의 긍정적인 마인드로 한 분 한 분에게 최고의 쇼핑 경험을 드리기 위해 최선의 노력을 다하고 있어요. 그 손님들이 좋은 기억을 갖고 추후에 IKEA로 다시 돌아오셔서 매출의 영향으로도 이어질 것이라고 믿어요. 그래서 저는 제가 IKEA에 작지만 큰 영향을 주고 있다고 of customers say there are helpful, 생각해요. 앞으로도 IKEA와 계속해서 같이 성장하고 싶어요. IKEA가 있어야 저도 있기 때문이에요. 저는 아직도IKEA에 출근하는 것이 정말 설레요. 77 % knowledgeable and informed staff ►►► available when needed. Building skills and capabilities To transform our business, we’re adopting a more proactive approach to competence development. This means ensuring co-workers across Ingka Group have the right skills and abilities of co-workers agree that they 우정민 Lois Woo Customer Support Generalist, combined with the knowledge, motivation and capability to meet CSC changing customer needs and to encourage more sustainable living. 90 % have the knowledge and skills During FY19, we started the work of identifying the core to meet customer needs. competences we need to deliver on our business goals today and in the future. Based on this, we’re developing our learning offer and strengthening our succession planning and recruitment processes to ensure we have people with the right competences. of co-workers believe they By strengthening our approach to competence development, we’ll improve the co-worker experience too, providing more opportunities 70 % have good opportunities to Think beyond. for people to grow and develop their skills and know-how with us. develop their competences. We’re particularly focused on building our capabilities of digital Dare to try. literacy and in areas such as digitalisation and services, through programmes like our Coding Bootcamp, see page 51. Source: IKEA Customer Satisfaction Survey; I Share co-worker survey, FY19 Keep on growing. When we take a bit of time out of our normal routine to learn, reflect on our Front days – keeping goals and share ideas, it can benefit us both personally and professionally. Reskilling for a digital future us connected ► That’s the idea behind Talent Focus Week, our annual Group-wide event open Every day, we each run millions of lines of code as we use our computers, to all co-workers. Our FY19 event, in which phones and tablets. But how many of us can actually write our own code? We define success by our ability to create a better 80,000 colleagues took part, encouraged At our 10-week Coding Bootcamp, Ingka Group colleagues from around everyday life for the many people. We need everyone everyone at Ingka Group to think beyond the norm and to try something new. the world are learning to do just that. at Ingka Group to lead by example in keeping our G At IKEA Retail South Korea, Talent Focus customers at heart. Week brought together 1,138 co-workers racy Kantzabedian is a Coding exercises and tasks, learning to apply their Bootcamp graduate, one of 21 knowledge and culminating in building their T through 38 professional development hat’s why we value and offer Front Days – a programme workshops, quizzes, events and talks. co-workers of nine nationalities own apps. For the FY19 graduates, the final that lets our office-based co-workers experience working with Sessions included 10 ideas in 15 minutes, to complete the course during FY19. projects included: a furniture exchange app; colleagues in IKEA stores, Customer Support Centres and where co-workers shared work goals and Previously a customer service leader in our an app that calculates whether the contents Distribution Centres. It’s recommended that new co-workers start off challenges with colleagues from different IKEA Burbank store in the USA, Gracy was of your shopping cart will fit in your car; and their time at Ingka Group with a week in one of these units and then teams and functions, generating new ideas attracted to work at IKEA by our values. It’s a digital buddy for furniture assembly. two days every year thereafter. We encourage all office-based coand approaches. Other sessions explored not so often you find a brand with strong workers to participate, including our CEO and senior leaders, around values that actually sticks to them – it’s what 16,000 people in total. topics such as developing a growth mindset, brought me to join and what motivates me It was a tough 10 weeks managing change at work and challenging Front Days provide all of us with insights into our customers’ yourself to try new things. to stay, she explains. but an amazing experience. dreams, needs and frustrations and with first-hand experience Gracy had long been interested in I gained so much knowledge of our business operations. We all benefit from the opportunity Co-workers shared their knowledge and technology. She built her own computer at to spend time with each other and to learn from each other’s experiences with each other as presenters, the age of 12 and had taught herself the and learned how to apply it. perspectives and feedback. facilitators and workshop participants. basics of coding. After joining IKEA Retail I now have a new role as a Feedback showed that these personal US, she soon had the chance to develop software engineer based in reflections were particularly inspiring for these skills. When a colleague suggested I When I had the opportunity to work in the Sweden. colleagues. apply for a programme to train as a digital Textiles, Logistics and Recovery departments, We’re so focused on our daily to-do list architect, I jumped at the chance, says I gained a lot of new insights. I was so that it’s hard to find the time to reflect and Gracy. And a year later, I applied to join the Coding Bootcamps is just one of the ways think about where we’re headed. Talent Ingka Group Coding Bootcamp to further we’re building our digital capabilities; impressed with the unity and togetherness Focus Week motivates us all to learn new build up my digital skills. reskilling our co-workers to develop the among co-workers and their commitment things, appreciate what we’ve achieved and apps, websites and digital functionality we to serving our customers. plan how to move forward, says Minha Coding Bootcamp is an intensive, full-time need to transform our business and help Lee, Talent Sourcing & Employee Value 10-week course. Participants attend lectures our customers shop in the way that suits Sylwia Przytulska, Learning Development Leader, Ingka Group Proposition Leader, IKEA Retail South Korea. but spend most of the time on practical them best. Back to table of contents 52 / OUR PEOPLE / GOING ALL IN ON EQUALITY OUR PEOPLE / GOING ALL IN ON EQUALITY / 53 A rainbow bag for LGBT+ inclusion We value our co-workers and customers, whatever their sexual Our goal: achieve gender orientation or gender identity. We want to speak up for LGBT+ rights balance in the leadership of all and stand against discrimination. functions, locations, boards and ► That’s why every 17 May, we the rights of LGBT+ co-workers, committees by 2022 celebrate IDAHOT, the International customers, communities and other Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia stakeholders. and Biphobia, through events in our See www.unfe.org Towards gender-equal pay stores and offices. We’re one of a small number of global companies This year, at the suggestion of one of to have been accepted as a member of The Equal our co-workers, we made our support Pay International Coalition (EPIC), alongside even more visible with the launch of national governments, trade unions, multilateral the rainbow-coloured KVANTING carrier and non-governmental organisations. EPIC is bags. These limited-edition versions an initiative led by the International Labour of the IKEA blue bag were sold in 21 Organization (ILO), UN Women and the countries with some of the profits given Organisation for Economic Co-operation and to LGBT+ organisations, including the Development, which aims to make equal pay a Human Rights Campaign Foundation. KVANTING reality across all countries and sectors by 2030. We co-created and endorsed the UN Carrier bag Going all in on equality 1.50 Our membership is one way we demonstrate Standards of Conduct for Business on our commitment to equal pay to current and tackling discrimination against LGBT+ € potential co-workers and help to raise the profile people. These outline how companies of this issue. should respect, support and promote At Ingka Group, we embrace diversity and want to create a workplace where It’s only fair that everyone receives equal pay everyone has equal opportunities, feels included and thrives. for work of equal value regardless of gender. To Women’s secure this, during a 2018 EPIC event, we pledged O ur commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion is country level), function and for groupand country-level boards to roll out a framework for gender-equal pay in the right thing to do and is also essential to the success of and committees, including our most senior leadership roles. all Ingka Group countries by 1 January 2019. We our business. It enables us to expand our talent pool, to serve a diverse customer base and to contribute to positive change in society. Our co-workers value our commitment too – in fact, We’re analysing each of these units individually with a stretching commitment to achieve gender balance by 2022. We will be particularly focused on functions that traditionally tend to be more also pledged to identify and perform concrete actions within 18 months. We’re on track with our commitments. In FY19, we rolled out our common Empowerment Principles feedback from co-workers shows it’s one of the top reasons people male or female dominated. approach and conducted our first assessment, When it comes to equality, we aim high. We want to be transparent choose to work at Ingka Group. We’re joining up with others to promote equality. This includes analysing data for over 150,000 co-workers. In the about our progress and to encourage other businesses to act. In every country, we have an Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I) signing the Women’s Empowerment Principles, see page 53, and majority of the countries in which we operate, we Leader who co-creates plans and initiatives together with the global joining Business for Inclusive Growth, a business coalition launched have pay for identical groups (same pay band, ► That’s why we’ve signed the Women’s ED&I team. Their responsibility is to ensure that these initiatives at the G7 summit aiming to tackle inequality and promote diversity same job title) on the weighted average within Empowerment Principles developed by have local relevance, are implemented and followed through and in workplaces and supply chains. We’re also working with the a margin of +/-3%. Besides quantifying the pay UN Women and the UN Global Compact Signing the Women’s ultimately reach all co-workers. World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on the New Equality gaps, we focus on analysing the reasons for the (UNGC). The Principles commit us to: Empowerment Principles Our processes in areas such as recruitment, succession planning and Inclusion Agenda, which aims to set a new global agenda for gaps and performing concrete actions where and rewards support a diverse and inclusive work environment. equality and inclusion. necessary. » Establish high-level corporate helps us to keep equality New training programmes help our recruiters spot and address Each of our countries in the European Union has signed their Our goal is to achieve gender-equal pay for leadership for gender equality. top of mind, to hold unconscious bias, so we can be confident that we’re selecting diverse country’s national Diversity Charter, committing to promote equal work of equal value by the end of 2021. However, » Treat all women and men fairly at ourselves accountable and candidates who are the most qualified for the job. opportunities in the workplace and in society. securing gender-equal pay is not a one-time fix. work – respect and support human Our inclusion index monitors co-worker views on whether We’ll continue to apply our holistic and cyclical rights and non-discrimination. to be transparent about we’re succeeding in creating an inclusive workplace. It’s based on approach beyond 2021. » Ensure the health, safety and our progress or challenges. questions from our co-worker survey, I Share, and the score for FY19 well-being of all women and men Gender balance – % of women FY18 FY19 Even when we’re doing a was 80%. Our goal is 85%. Achieving gender-equal pay entails the workers. Supervisory Board 37.5% 37.5% following: » Promote education, training and good job today, we must » 78% of co-workers feel included at Ingka Group. » Each identical group (same pay band, professional development for not lose focus or we could » 82% of co-workers feel they can be themselves Group Management 30.0% 30.0% same job title) with a difference in pay women. go backwards. Having the at Ingka Group. All leaders (management positions) 49.4% 49.7% will be investigated and have clear » Implement enterprise development, explanations for the differences. supply chain and marketing Principles as our guide helps All co-workers 55.2% 54.6% Equality is a fundamental human right, and we know that » Each gap found in the identical group practices that empower women. us to continue improve. gender balanced teams are more productive and effective. We Note to chart: We define gender balance as equal representation. In that cannot be explained by performance, » Promote equality through Sari Brody, Global Equality, Diversity achieved our previous goal of gender balance across all leadership practice, this can vary year on year, and we consider a range of 45–55% competence or legal requirements will community initiatives and advocacy. & Inclusion Manager, Ingka Group positions ahead of schedule. However, there is further work to be to be gender balanced. For boards/committees with a small number of have a concrete action plan to address » Measure and publicly report on done to achieve gender balance for each location (unit, store and members, the range may be 40–60%. the gap. progress to achieve gender equality. Back to table of contents 54 / OUR PEOPLE / CREATING A GREAT CO-WORKER EXPERIENCE OUR PEOPLE / HEALTH, WELL-BEING AND SAFETY / 55 Creating a great co-worker experience We want to create a great working experience for everyone at Ingka Group – rewarding their efforts, treating them fairly and responding to their feedback. T his helps us to attract and retain the talent we need and IKEA employment standards (IES) provides the right conditions for our co-workers to do a IKEA is a diverse and values-driven brand with a vision to create a great job for customers. When our people feel engaged and better everyday life for the many people. This means that we care empowered, they thrive – and so does our business. We’re proud as much about our co-workers, customers and suppliers as we do that 81% of co-workers believe Ingka Group is a great place to work. about the development of our business. This is well above the 72.4% average score for the benchmark group The IES provide the framework for the relationship between Ingka Improving health, of companies and makes progress towards our goal of 85% by FY21. Group and our co-workers. They outline our way of working and Our co-worker turnover rate was 25.3% in FY19, which includes both include principles that inspire and support us in engaging with our Supporting voluntary and involuntary turnover. many co-workers. co-workers Listening to our co-workers We want to know how our co-workers feel about their jobs, their The standards set the minimum requirements we apply to the employment relationship for all co-workers, regarding contracts, scheduling, working hours, equality of treatment and open through change well-being and teams and Ingka Group as an employer. Regular surveys supplement direct conversations and help us to identify areas for improvement. In FY19 we launched our new co-worker survey I Share, to make it communication. The IES continue to form part of the base of our employment offer with our co-workers, and we’ll learn and update as necessary with changing shifts in both our workforce and We’re transforming our business to create a modern, lean and agile occupational safety easier for co-workers to share feedback and enable our managers to business. Ingka Group that’s fit for growth. We want to provide a safe and healthy work environment for respond more quickly. Co-workers can now share their views at least everyone at Ingka Group. We’re strengthening our processes once a year via a 10-minute survey. Building strong social relations ► This means changing how we lead Our co-workers are our most valuable asset, and we’re committed and work, building new capabilities and for safety management and plan to launch a health and well-being to providing a great place to work for all of them, which we achieve reorganising many parts of our business. framework for our co-workers in FY20. When our people feel engaged and through a spirit of collaboration. Throughout our transformation, we’ll stay W empowered, they thrive – and so does our Social Relations within Ingka Group is defined as our valuesclose to our co-workers, offering the right e want to help our co-workers Managing safety risks business. We’re proud that 81% of co-workers based collective collaboration and dialogue between our leaders, support and listening to their feedback. to improve their health, to Risk areas for co-worker safety at Ingka co-workers, co-worker representatives and all other internal and boost their performance and Group include logistics and food areas, believe Ingka Group is a great place to work. external stakeholders. Through our transformation, many well-being, to feel connected with their often when co-workers are handling Ingka Group is committed to respect and realise the principle new jobs have been created, while other colleagues and to enable them to manage a material or using hand tools. Around 73,000 co-workers completed the survey during FY19. The of freedom of association, and we recognise the right to collective jobs have been changed, moved or made healthy work-life balance. We updated our Group Safety and results show that we perform strongly in areas such as Engagement bargaining, in compliance with local legislation. redundant, mainly in our global functions Currently each Ingka Group country Security Rule in FY19 to provide new and Leadership and that 80% of co-workers feel inspired by the IKEA and offices in 30 countries. To support our offers many local health and well-being guidance on how each location should vision. Our co-workers are also proud of their collaboration with co-workers, we’re providing training, support programmes, as well as training and evaluate and mitigate safety risks and colleagues. and guidance in the process. We want all initiatives to encourage healthy living. To prevent accidents. We’re supporting Inter Survey responses are also helping us to understand and respond co-workers to understand why we’re making ensure we’re providing a consistent coIKEA Group in developing a new web based to co-worker views on our transformation. these changes and to feel they’ve been worker experience and meeting co-worker learning solution that’s available for all listened to and treated with respect. needs in every location, we’ll launch our co-workers. Rewarding performance and competence global Health and Well-being Framework We’re also continuously improving our Our compelling and competitive rewards, opportunities for To support our co-workers, in FY20. incident reporting system to make it easier professional and individual growth, inclusive working environment we’re providing training, The Framework takes a holistic approach, to input, use and share our data both at and strong culture, all help us attract, motivate and retain a talented encompassing mental and physical Ingka Group and country level. While health workforce. We want to make sure that our total offer adequately support and guidance in health and other areas that contribute to and safety issues are managed locally, these rewards performance and competence, so co-workers know that the process. wellbeing. We’ve appointed a Health and changes will improve consistency between their efforts are recognised and that results matter. During FY20, Wellbeing Leader in every country to help us different parts of the business. we’ll be exploring how to better communicate our total rewards Where redundancies are necessary, our identify and address local priorities. offer to co-workers across Ingka Group. approach includes providing one-to-one By increasing our focus in this area, Our accident frequency rate (severe Our variable pay programmes benefit all our co-workers meetings with line managers, offering we aim not only to improve co-worker accidents per million worked hours) was worldwide, recognising their commitment and contribution to coaching and support to find a new role and health and well-being but also to support 11.6 in FY19. We’re not able to compare the business. Our annual One IKEA Bonus programme rewards ensuring that affected co-workers have the engagement and job satisfaction. It will help performance with previous years due to co-workers for achieving our business goals – more than 120,000 coopportunity to be interviewed for a new role us to manage the impact of trends such the changes we made to our data reporting workers received a bonus for FY19. The loyalty programme, Tack! at Ingka Group. They can also choose to join as technological advances and an ageing system this year. ( thank you in Swedish), has shared EUR 612 million since FY14. It our talent pool to be kept informed of new workforce. We’ll track progress using our now operates on a three-year cycle. vacancies after they’ve left the company. engagement survey. Back to table of contents Our business on People twoand rows planet positive Chapter preamble ditas quis dis restiaectat arum estion rem reperia spietur at asperum hicipitatem qui sunt erae. Ratum dem quam voluptio. Becoming people and planet positive  58 Circular and climate positive  68 Article A one in message thisPia section from  Heidenmark Cook  00 59 Article Fair andfour in this section  inclusive 00 82 Article two Healthy andinsustainable  this sectionliving  00 62 Article five in this Sustainability section  and governance 00 Article three in this section  00 management  90 Back to table of contents 58 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / 59 A MESSAGE FROM PIA HEIDENMARK COOK A turning-point year 2019 will be remembered as the year when the world finally woke up to the urgency of climate change and biodiversity loss. New research shows just how quickly we need to act, and many more of us started to feel the impacts of climate change firsthand. And children held older generations to account through school strikes and demonstrations across the globe. W UN Sustainable e invested in our first wind farm a decade ago, and this customers to see IKEA as the brand that can support them in making year we’ll reach a new milestone as we’ll generate more a positive change. We know this is important to our co-workers, Development Goals Becoming people renewable energy than the energy we consume in our customers and the communities that host us. own operations. Decades of making bold commitments and working Many of the global sustainability with sustainable innovation has taught us that caring for people and Taking a stand on the issues that matter and planet positive challenges that we’re responding the planet is core to our future success. It makes us a company that In what can feel like an increasingly polarised world, we believe to in our strategy are described our co-workers are proud to work for and creates opportunities for we have a responsibility to demonstrate our vision, values and growth and cost efficiency. This conviction that sustainable business commitment to inclusive growth. How we treat and care for each in the United Nations Sustainable is the only way to do business means we are eager to accelerate other is more important today than ever before, and we know that Development Goals (SDGs). progress and go even faster and further than before. customers and co-workers increasingly look to companies like ours Our overall ambition is to become people and planet positive to drive progressive change in society. I’m so proud to see our IKEA and to inspire and enable the many people to live a better life ► Launched in 2015, the SDGs provide an Retail countries running local initiatives and campaigns raising within the limits of the planet by 2030. inspiring framework for collective action. We need everyone – from the shop floor to issues such as LGBT+ rights, gender equality and children’s rights – They guide us as we develop our business, set ambitions and engage with our partners. senior leadership – to take responsibility for they are contributing to important debates and helping to create a Our People and planet positive strategy and Ingka Investments) and empowers more fair and equal world. All of the goals are connected, and we use creating a more sustainable business. has three focus areas: people across the group to lead and Going into FY20, we keep pushing forward on many fronts with them to help guide our strategy and work. contribute. It’s fully aligned with the IKEA a lot more to learn and achieve. I’m confident that by working 1 At Ingka Group, we support all of the goals, Healthy & sustainable living. Inspire Sustainability Strategy made available by Leading a sustainable transformation together with our co-workers, our customers and communities we but our strategies contribute to six of them and enable 1 billion people to live a Inter IKEA Group in 2018. As we transform our business to come closer to customers and their can achieve the IKEA vision – to create a better everyday life for the in particular: better life within the limits of the planet. The focus areas and goals set in the IKEA needs and dreams, we know the greatest opportunities will come many people – because home isn’t just where we live, it is the planet Retail section of our strategy contribute to when we’re more sustainable, more affordable and more accessible we all share. 2 Circular & climate positive. Strive for zero waste, contribute to the IKEA ambition to be circular and climate positive the sustainability ambitions set by Inter IKEA Group. Gender equality see page 52 – all at the same time. We can achieve our goals if we make sustainability as much a part of our culture and the way we work as our commitment to offer well-designed, affordable products, Pia Heidenmark Cook Chief Sustainability Officer, Ingka Group by 2030, and advocate for positive change We want to play our part solutions and services for a better life at home. We need everyone – in society. Affordable and from the shop floor to senior leadership – to take responsibility for in creating a movement clean energy creating a more sustainable business. in society – one that 3 Fair & inclusive. Improve the well-being of millions of people by becoming a truly inclusive and people-centred company encourages everyone to see pages 32 and 75 With this in mind, we made an important change to how we manage sustainability this year – making our Country Retail Managers also Chief Sustainability Officers for their countries. live within the limits of our Decent work and and employer. economic growth This means they are accountable for delivering our sustainability planet, and one which is see pages 48 and 84 goals at the national level and for putting sustainability at the heart We’re moving towards becoming people truly inclusive. of the new business we’re transforming Ingka Group into. They and planet positive, and we’ve taken are, of course, supported by a national, as well as global, team of important steps in FY19. But there is still Our strategy is inspired by the IKEA vision Reduce inequalities sustainability business partners. much more to do and much more to to create a better everyday life for the see page 82 learn. Tackling global challenges means many people. It's our response to global Meeting customer needs for affordable sustainable living we need partners across the world. We trends and changes in society, including We also made good progress at integrating sustainability into our Responsible consumption aim to be open and transparent with the challenges highlighted by the UN customer offer and the way we communicate the sustainability and production our stakeholders, and we listen and act, Sustainable Development Goals. We listen stories behind our products in a clear and compelling way. As the see pages 62 and 81 together through forums like ONE HOME, to stakeholders and our partners to decide largest retailer in the IKEA franchise system, reaching hundreds of ONE PLANET, see page 60. what matters most and where we should millions of customers and visitors every year, I’m very excited and focus our efforts, see page 91. motivated by the opportunity to contribute towards a movement in Climate action About our strategy and priorities sustainable living. Few other businesses are as well placed as IKEA see page 70 The Ingka Group Sustainability Strategy sets Information about governance of – thanks to our brand, offer and reach – to contribute to making a common, bold sustainability ambition for sustainability at Ingka Group is included See how we contribute to the sustainable and healthy living attractive, easy and affordable for the Ingka Group (IKEA Retail, Ingka Centres on page 90. 17 SDGs on page 112. the many people. This is a big priority for us, and we aim for all our Back to table of contents 60 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / 61 ACT SOON LATER By employing refugees, IKEA is charting a path that should inspire other forwardWhen you are flying in a solar-powered airplane, without fuel, noise and pollution, you first believe that you TOMORROW People come to an IKEA store to thinking businesses. Enabling refugees are in the future! But you are not. You be inspired. That’s an incredible to realise their potential and contribute are in the present, with what today’s opportunity and responsibility that to the communities where they live – as technologies allow you to do today. And NOW IKEA has to influence the way people co-workers, entrepreneurs, innovators, then you realise that, in fact, it’s the think and to inspire optimism. IKEA taxpayers, and consumers – is both an rest of the world that’s in the past, with has to be the example of efficient expression of humanitarian values and outdated and inefficient systems. If we use of resources and efficiency. The good business sense. were to replace these old infrastructures past reputation of IKEA was quite the opposite – it used to be buy, use, Filippo Grandi, UN High with modern and efficient ones, we Commissioner for Refugees dispose – and that is a reputation that would create jobs, make profit, and at IKEA must completely transform. It the same time, protect the environment. should become the global icon for It would be logical – as much as circularity. ecological. Christiana Figueres, Founding Partner, Bertrand Piccard, Chairman, Global Optimism. Former Executive Secretary Solar Impulse Foundation of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 2010-2016 ONE HOME, ONE PLANET What will make the difference is leadership and action. We start with ourselves and take a big responsibility The time to act is now. To achieve the IKEA ambition to become people and planet positive, to lead and inspire others with bold we need to speed up, challenge ourselves and seek out new ideas and inspiration. actions and learnings, so that we do T even better tomorrow. hat’s why we convened ONE HOME, ONE PLANET – a global During the two days, we discussed how we can take action to two-day event attended by 200 thought leaders from inside create a movement to increase the scale and speed of the transition Jesper Brodin, CEO, Ingka Group and outside our business. In April 2019, participants gathered to sustainable living and how we can work with partners to better at one of our leading sustainable stores, IKEA Kaarst in Germany, to understand the impact of sustainable living. explore ideas and actions for a sustainable retail sector. Attendees challenged us to develop more circular solutions and We asked leaders from businesses, start-ups, policy ways of working in order to connect communities and enable people organisations, academia and NGOs to give their take on how we to live more sustainably, reduce waste and reuse resources. We can meet the challenges and opportunities we’re faced with, from explored how we can go further to develop our commitments to Bringing together experts with deep unsustainable consumption, to climate change and inequality. support refugee inclusion and social entrepreneurs. knowledge and understanding of the Everyone was able to directly contribute to our sustainability We also showcased some exciting projects and partnerships, such issues facing people experiencing poverty We live in the best time we have ever plans and share ideas and actions through co-creation working as those on renewable energy, behaviour change and circular urban and inequality enabled us to develop lived in. We have horrible problems to fix sessions. Together we explored three key questions: farming. our approach to working with refugees but to do that, we need to know where and social entrepreneurs. This kind of we are today. We have to change the » How do we make sustainable and healthy living a desirable ONE HOME, ONE PLANET is an important milestone in accelerating co-creation session has been invaluable way we look at the facts and the world choice that's affordable, attractive and accessible for as our people and planet positive activities. We’ll bring leaders together many people as possible? again to continue the work at IKEA Greenwich in London in FY20. in ensuring our initiatives create a bigger around us; we need to be humble and » How do we become circular and climate positive? impact, developing all participants’ curious and find fact-based solutions. » How do we move from inequality to being truly fair and knowledge and sharing of good practice. Anna Rosling Rönnlund, Vice President and equal? Mercedes Gutierrez, Global Communities Founder Gapminder, founder Dollar Street, Engagement Leader, Ingka Group co-writer of the book Factfulness. Back to table of contents 62 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING / 63 You can read more about responsible sourcing, home furnishing suppliers, product design, product safety and other related topics on about.ikea.com. IKEA 365+ Food container with lid € 3.99 Healthy and sustainable living A better world starts at home W e will make healthy and sustainability aspects and benefits sustainable living a desirable of IKEA products. It’s possible for all of us to take simple and affordable steps at home choice that's affordable, » Engaged almost 60,000 customers that make a difference – to the planet and to our own well-being. attractive and accessible. Today the world’s around the world to adopt more T natural resources are being used at an sustainable everyday habits through he IKEA home furnishing range, developed and supplied by icons to our brochures, website, IKEA Family communications, unsustainable rate, and this increasingly our IKEA Better Living app. Inter IKEA Group, is designed according to the five dimensions newsletters, room sets and product labels. The results of the test impacts people, communities and » Launched 10 new plant-based of Democratic Design: form, function, quality, sustainability show that there is interest in the sustainability aspects of products ecosystems. It also affects the long-term recipes that are good for our and a low price. This means building sustainability into how the as mobile shoppers were 5% more likely to purchase a product future of the IKEA business, giving us even customers’ health and reduce products are made – such as the choice of materials – and in some featuring a sustainability icon, and overall sales of highlighted more reason to play our part in addressing greenhouse gas emissions, cases how they're used – such as functions that enable people to products increased. this challenge. compared with meat alternatives. save water or energy. We’re using the results, together with those from similar We know that most people want to live » Tested urban farming at two As the largest IKEA retailer in the IKEA franchise system, we have tests in other countries, to develop a communications approach more sustainably but not at the expense of stores to produce salad greens a big opportunity to demonstrate how the IKEA range can enable that will highlight the sustainability aspects and benefits of IKEA price, quality or convenience. They would and herbs for our IKEA restaurants healthy and sustainable living and to offer services, inspiration and products and services in a consistent and impactful way. This will be like us to make it easier for them, and we that are fresher and have a lower knowledge to help make sustainable living a reality. implemented across all countries in FY20. have a great opportunity to do so, with carbon footprint, compared with Using the findings of research with customers, we’ll also our scale and influence, the IKEA range of conventional production. Our research shows that the majority of develop tailored room settings in each country, designed to inspire products, our knowledge of life at home » Launched our Learning Lab at IKEA customers on the most relevant and appealing aspects of low and our hundreds of millions of customer Greenwich to inspire customers people want to live more sustainably but carbon living. This is another way we can meet customer needs interactions. With 839 million store visits about sustainable living. Our ambition don’t know what action they can take. for inspiration and ideas on simple, achievable sustainable living and 2.6 billion web visits each year, we reach choices. a huge audience. The products we sell are supplied by Inter and focus areas Our research shows that the majority of people want to live more IKEA Group. From responsibly sourced sustainably but don’t know what action they can take and there is Engaging and inspiring customers and co-workers We believe that living more sustainably certified tea and coffee in our Swedish Food Our ambition for 2030 is to inspire growing interest in how products are made and sourced. We’re using our stores, websites and advertising to engage makes life better and should not be a luxury Markets and IKEA Restaurants to products and enable 1 billion people to live We want to show that more sustainable options are accessible co-workers and customers on sustainable living, see examples on for the few. That’s why sustainability is one that help customers recycle waste and a better life within the limits of the and affordable to everyone and to inspire customers to make page 65. Every year, our stores and Ingka Centres meeting places of the IKEA Democratic Design principles become more energy efficient, there are changes in their everyday lives that benefit people and the planet. host sustainability events, workshops and trainings for customers alongside form, function, quality and a low lots of inspiring sustainability stories behind planet. We will focus on the following We do this through a wide range of channels and interactions, and co-workers. According to our co-worker survey, I Share, 80% of price. Helping all our customers enjoy a the IKEA range. You can read more about commitments: including: highlighting the sustainability stories behind our products our co-workers feel they actively contribute to IKEA taking care of sustainable and healthy life at home will be responsible sourcing, home furnishing and services; inspiring and engaging our customers and co-workers people and the planet. good for our business, good for the planet suppliers, product design, product safety » Creating a movement in society to make small changes; and enabling communities to come together 80% of our co-workers and good for the many people. and other related topics on about.ikea.com. around better living. and share sustainable living tips and ideas with each other. Together with Inter IKEA Group, we’re » Promoting circular and collaborative In FY19, we: developing a measurement framework consumption. Communicating sustainability in-store and online » Updated our approach to into enable us to track and report progress During FY19, we trialled a new communications approach at our feel they actively contribute to IKEA store and online communication against our 2030 ambition. » Enabling and inspiring people to stores in Austria, highlighting products with strong sustainability taking care of people and the planet. and information to highlight the live healthier, more sustainable lives. credentials. This included adding sustainability information and Back to table of contents 64 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING / 65 POÄNG Armchair App helps € 59 customers make savings ► Our IKEA Better Living app helped almost 60,000 customers around the world to save 1,500 tonnes of carbon, 101 tonnes of waste and 3 million litres of water by making small and simple changes, logging their progress and competing against friends. It was part of our global A better world starts at home campaign, see page 17. Black Friday Life of an icon: that makes IKEA Greenwich leads the way The POÄNG chair you think Our new Greenwich store in London is putting sustainability at the heart of the IKEA experience. ► A new short film is helping to inspire, ► Our research in Poland found that inform and engage our co-workers on many people store old belongings that Through events, shared spaces and information, we're supporting customers to make sustainable sustainability. Using virtual reality, it they no longer use – many of which could and healthy choices – while providing new spaces for local people to meet, share, learn and shop. immerses our co-workers in the story of the be repaired, upcycled or donated. Based POÄNG chair, following it from the timber’s on this insight, our Black Friday campaign O ne of the most exciting features at IKEA Greenwich is the space in the first five months after the store opened. origins through to the customer's home. for 2018 asked customers to think before Learning Lab, where customers can explore how to reuse, We’ll be using what we’ve learnt from IKEA Greenwich and our they shop and to ask themselves – can I do refresh and prolong the life of their products. In this fully Learning Lab pilot to introduce similar changes at our other stores. something useful with the things I already All the equipped space, customers can join regular, hands-on craft and have? A dedicated webpage included ideas maker sessions with local experts. During these inspiring sessions, Feedback from our customers: for how to make possessions useful again. they may learn how to install, repair or upcycle their IKEA products » It’s a perfect way to learn new skills, to learn about It received almost 70,000 visits during Black or how to make new, useful items for the home from materials that might otherwise have become waste. protecting our planet and also make new friends. » It was just excellent, I can't wait to come again, love the little things Friday. See www.IKEA.pl/przydasie In the first seven months, there were 267 workshop sessions, and learning lab space, it’s a truly inspiring area. ► A campaign at Ingka Centres meeting 1,766 customers got involved. Ninety-six percent of participants said places in Sweden and Finland encouraged they loved the workshop they’d attended, and 75% said they would everyone to make small changes to help definitely use the skills they had learnt at home. look after our planet. Visitors to the centres Throughout the store, information boards, displays and room took part in second-hand clothes sales, settings provide easy-to-digest information on sustainability and our products, helping customers to make informed choices. Our greenest store yet learnt how to grow their own vegetables, found out about sustainable living products Behind the scenes, our Greenwich store is more on sale at IKEA and heard from inspiring speakers. The changes at Greenwich are all part of our sustainable too. From the moment you enter, it Leading Sustainable Store concept, through feels a little different. which we’re developing new ways to help Lighter and brighter, the building design makes use of customers to lead more sustainable and large windows, skylights and sun pipes to bring in more Maintain, healthy lives. We want to help bring about a daylight – reducing energy bills and creating a pleasant place Sustainable circular economy, where products aren’t just to shop. upgrade, repair used and discarded. Innovations such as the On a sunny day, the store’s large solar array generates Living Festival more electricity than the store uses. Ground source heat at IKEA Norway Learning Lab will play an important part in this transition. pumps cover 60% of the store’s heating and hot water needs, and it also uses 100% LED lighting, rainwater harvesting and Beijing ► The simple act of regularly tightening renewable materials. To encourage visits by public transport, ► Customers young and old were able to the screws on your IKEA furniture can help Hege Saebjornsen, Country Sustainability we’ve made it easy and affordable for customers to have try out sustainable living solutions, watch products last longer. This was the message Manager, IKEA Retail UK & Ireland their products delivered home. a sustainable fashion show and attend in a customer campaign in Norway on Upstairs there’s a roof garden with views of London and a pavilion It's one of just a few hundred buildings worldwide, and talks at our Livat Beijing meeting place and Black Friday that encouraged customers to with two large event spaces. Both can be used for free to hold local the first retail building in the UK, to achieve the BREEAM IKEA Beijing store. They could also redeem take care of their IKEA furniture. The IKEA events, classes and meetings, or informally for people to socialise, Outstanding rating. Read more on www.breeam.com. discount coupons for products that support Norway website also featured tips on how study and work. Thirty-six different community groups used the healthy and sustainable living. to maintain and upgrade older furniture. Back to table of contents 66 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE LIVING / 67 Good food that's good for the planet IKEA stores grow We aim to provide healthy and sustainable food for our customers and co-workers their own lettuce in the IKEA Restaurants, IKEA Bistros and Swedish Food Markets. F We know many of our customers like rom sustainably sourced ingredients to meat-free options sourced directly by Ingka Group and the rest was supplied by Inter and locally grown produce, we want to promote the benefits of IKEA Group. By the end of FY20, we expect that all the food we offer to grow their own fruit and vegetables. food that tastes great and is better for the planet too. The IKEA in our IKEA stores will be supplied by Inter IKEA Group and we’ll no What if we could do the same? Food range, sourced and supplied by Inter IKEA Group, includes a longer source food directly. variety of sustainably sourced options from organic rapeseed oil ► Global food production is responsible to responsibly farmed seafood and certified coffee and cocoa. We’re Meat-free meals for up to one-third of greenhouse gas increasing the information we provide on our food and sourcing to With meat production accounting for 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions1 – so cutting the carbon footprint highlight our sustainable products to customers. emissions1, eating less meat is one important way we can all reduce of the food we eat has never been more Promoting circular our carbon footprint. We’ve offered options for our vegetarian important. That’s why we’re testing smallcustomers for many years such as veggie balls and veggie hot dogs. scale urban farms, exploring whether we can By providing delicious and attractive Now we want to go further and encourage even more customers to become self-sufficient in some of the fresh plant-based food, we can encourage more consumption enjoy plant-based dishes. produce we use in our IKEA restaurants. The potential benefits of healthier food are people to become ‘flexitarians’ – reducing At Ingka Group, we’ve developed 10 new tempting plant-based significant, from fewer emissions to less the amount of meat they eat to lower their Our customer research shows that many people feel bad about recipes that look good and taste good with lower carbon footprints. waste. carbon footprint. Each dish, such as our Italian herb lasagne, chili sin carne and meatthrowing things away. They often want to repair, reuse or recycle In FY18, we grew our own herbs and Catarina Englund, Innovation and Development Leader, Ingka Group free kebabs, uses plant proteins derived from ingredients like oats lettuces in small-scale urban farms in but lack the time, knowledge or energy to do so. and peas but with a texture that’s similar to meat. We’ve tested them Sweden and Switzerland. In FY19, we We’re working to further develop our food range strategy, with the in seven countries and they’ve proved popular with co-workers and W extended the tests, installing medium-scale e’re exploring new solutions to IKEA furniture from IKEA customers in our aim of offering our customers a wider range of healthy, sustainable customers. We’ll now roll them out as local dishes across all of our container farms with romaine and frisée make circular consumption more As-Is areas too – providing a useful service and affordable food options in our country-specific food offers. IKEA Retail countries, with each country offering at least one of the lettuces outside the IKEA Malmö and IKEA convenient and relevant for our for customers and helping to extend the life During FY19, around half the food we sold in our IKEA stores was dishes in its IKEA Restaurants. Helsingborg stores in Sweden. The farms customers. For example, we’re testing the of products and materials. use hydroponic technology and operate in a potential for furniture leasing, see page 33, In FY19, six Ingka Centres meeting places circular way, with food waste from the store launching take-back and buy-back schemes in Russia collaborated with tenants on a used to create a nutrient solution to feed the and helping customers repair, reuse and circularity campaign, running events to lettuces. recycle old furniture or give it a second life encourage visitors to reuse, share, recycle, through reselling. upcycle and repair items, along with talks The early results are promising. We Our stores sell unused returned products about circular principles. The campaign will produced enough to supply the in-store through our As-Is areas; 38 million products now be rolled out to Ingka Centres meeting restaurants with all the lettuce they need. were sold this way in FY19, see page 80. In places in China and Poland. Since they’re grown onsite, the lettuce can many stores, we offer second-hand used be used almost straight away, meaning they’re fresher, tastier and contain more ALLEMANSRÄTTEN nutrients. They also grow faster, with less Vegetable balls, 1000g A second life for your water and waste than conventional farming and without the use of pesticides and herbicides. A life-cycle assessment shows € 3.99 old IKEA furniture that when the urban farm is powered by renewable energy, the carbon footprint of IKEA Retail Canada is testing whether the lettuce is 30% smaller than the ones we a buy-back and re-sell service can help would usually use. We’d like to extend urban farming so that we become self-sufficient create a more sustainable and affordable in herbs and lettuce across all our store shopping experience for Canadians. restaurants. The main challenge is that our produce ► The service enables customers to apply is currently more expensive than a to sell their gently-used IKEA products back to conventionally farmed alternative. We’ve us, in exchange for store credit, with the aim already made progress on reducing these to give products a second life through resale costs, and we’re continuing to find ways or donation. It also remade its famous advert to improve efficiency. Ingka Investments from 2002, which showed someone discarding has also invested in two urban farming an old lamp and replacing it with a new IKEA businesses in the USA and Estonia to one. The 2019 version shows how the discarded support development of the industry. lamp actually found a new and happy home – and ends by encouraging everyone to reuse. 1 Source: CGIAR, ccafs.cgiar.org 1 Source: FAO, www.fao.org Back to table of contents 68 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 69 Our contribution to a circular and climate positive IKEA Circular and The IKEA ambition is to be circular and climate positive by 20301. At Ingka Group we’re going all in to contribute. climate positive CLIMATE POSITIVE A CIRCULAR BUSINESS T he world is facing a climate – for instance by enabling people to travel to Becoming climate positive is about reducing more greenhouse The IKEA ambition to become a circular business crisis that will affect the lives of our stores more sustainably and generate gas emissions than the IKEA value chain emits, while growing by 20303 means designing all products with circular many millions of people. Human renewable energy at home. the IKEA business. At Ingka Group, we'll contribute to the IKEA principles in mind, using renewable or recycled activities have warmed the planet’s average climate positive ambition2 by achieving our science-based emission materials and working with customers to keep products temperature by more than 1°C, and we’re We believe that if we all reduction targets, see page 70. in use for longer. using resources at a rate equivalent to 1.75 Earths per year1. With 1 million species act together, we can build We’ll do this by: At Ingka Group, we’re contributing to this 1 at risk of extinction, we’re on course a low carbon and circular Being powered by 100% renewable energy, while increasing ambition by: economy that secures long1 for irrevocable damage to nature and energy efficiency. We'll ensure our business is run on 100% Developing circular services for customers. ecosystems. renewable electricity by 2025 and completely phase out We’re piloting new ways for customers to acquire, Climate change is already threatening term prosperity. fossil fuel-based heating and cooling by 2030. We want to drive care for and pass on products in circular ways. By lives with heatwaves, wildfires, hurricanes decarbonisation of the electricity sector beyond our operations, exploring furniture leasing, product take back, secondand flooding becoming more common. In FY19, we: making major investments in wind farms and solar power hand sales, product recovery and repair, we aim to keep Risks to communities include extreme » Generated renewable energy generation to grow the amount of renewable electricity in the grid. resources in use for longer. weather events, rising sea levels, food and equivalent to 93% of the energy Read more about the contribution of Ingka Investments on page 38. 2 resource scarcity and collapsing ecosystems. used in our operations, up from Striving for zero waste. Reducing operational 2 We all need to act now. 81% in FY18. Targeting zero emissions from home deliveries and waste is a priority, including packaging and halving emissions from customer and co-worker travel product waste, and food waste from our At Ingka Group, climate change is » Committed to zero-emission home Our ambition in relative terms. Our ambitious plans to scale up electric IKEA Restaurants and Cafés and IKEA Bistros. We’re impacting our business today, and we’ve mapped climate-related risks and taken deliveries in five cities by 2020 and reached this milestone already in and focus areas vehicles and other low carbon options mean that all our home deliveries will be zero emission by 2025. We’re setting up several increasing recycling rates too. 3 steps to better understand the potential Shanghai. pilots to encourage co-workers to commute in a more sustainable Switching to sustainable materials. We’re future costs. These include physical impacts To contribute to the IKEA ambition to be way, and we're developing our plans to help customers travel more switching to more sustainable materials for our of extreme weather on our buildings and » Gave 47 million products a second circular and climate positive by 2030. sustainably too. non-home furnishing products like packaging the rising cost of using fossil fuels. life by repacking and reselling and co-worker uniforms. We’re investing in renewable, 3 Many of the solutions to the climate products in stores – that’s over We will do this by: Inspiring customers to reduce their climate footprint. recyclable or recycled materials. crisis already exist, but they urgently need 70% of all the products that could » Striving for zero waste and becoming circular. We’re enabling customers to generate and use renewable 4 to be deployed on a massive scale. This can potentially go to waste. » Being powered by 100% renewable electricity, helping them reduce their emissions at home. Exploring circular resource flows. Within our offer new opportunities for job creation, energy, while increasing energy We’re also working to reduce the climate footprint of products over operations, we’re looking at opportunities to innovation, economic growth and reduced » Phased out single-use plastic their life cycles by prolonging their lives and offering customers reduce the use of virgin materials across our efficiency. energy costs. items for serving food in our IKEA returned and second-hand products. Find out more about our work business. We’re partnering with suppliers to reuse and We’re taking action to reduce our direct restaurants and IKEA bistros in » Ensuring zero emissions from home with customers on page 62. recycle resources for non-home furnishing products like climate impact and strive for zero waste Canada and the UK, with other deliveries and aiming to reduce emissions packaging and co-worker uniforms. across our own operations. We’re looking for countries to follow in 2020. from co-worker and customer travel by ways to reduce our indirect impact too 50% in relative terms. 1 newsroom.inter.ikea.com/Publications/ikea-sustainability-strategy---people---planet-positive/s/5b72986f-d8c5-42fe-b123-f5f9d00a17bb 2 newsroom.inter.ikea.com/about-us/our-view-on-climate-positive/s/c34096a3-a06e-429b-8932-b28ff1007827 1 Source: Earth Overshoot Day: www.overshootday.org 3 newsroom.inter.ikea.com/About-Us/our-view-on-inspiring-a-circular-mindset/s/b813c66f-2e9e-4bf6-bcd9-9409ab471f87 Back to table of contents 70 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 71 Tackling climate change Climate footprint – Scope 1 and 2 1 Energy-related greenhouse gas emissions from (1,000 tonnes of CO2e) our buildings – Scope 1 and 2* (1,000 tonnes of CO2e) 604 587 Our targets and plans will enable us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in absolute 536 513 terms as we’re committed to do our part to limit global temperature increases. Total W e support the aims of the Taskforce on Climate-related 2 greenhouse gas emissions increased by 3.0% in absolute terms, 604 Financial Disclosures (TCFD). This year, we conducted compared with FY18. Since our climate target base year of FY161, our a climate change scenario analysis and report in line scope 1 and 2 emissions have gone up by 17.7%. We realise we need with TCFD’s recommendations for the first time, see page 72. We’re to reverse this trend in order to reach our targets. The increase in embedding responsibility for reaching our climate goals into our emissions is related to the growth of our business – the opening of Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 2 IKEA Retail 341 business and regularly track climate footprint metrics. From FY20, new stores, Ingka Centres meeting places and Distribution Centres Scope 2 420 463 475 Ingka Centres 3 220 Country Retail Managers, in their new roles as Chief Sustainability and increased visitation. We're growing in countries where there 414 Officers, will oversee progress against these metrics. We also is limited access to renewable energy. While reducing emissions Distribution Centres 37 encourage all co-workers to find energy and emissions savings, see in absolute terms is challenging, we're continuing to focus on Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 1 Offices 3 99 116 124 129 Other units (wind farms) 3 page 35. improving energy efficiency, generating and buying renewable We collaborate with others to accelerate progress on climate electricity and retrofitting our buildings with renewable heating and FY16 2 FY17 FY18 FY19 * footprint reduction, including through the Climate Group’s cooling techniques. renewable electricity (RE100) and electric vehicle (EV100) initiatives, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the The majority of our climate footprint lies in the IKEA value chain Climate footprint – Scope 3 4 Share of value chain emissions World Economic Forum Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, We Mean with scope 3 emissions making up 97.5% of our total footprint. In (1,000 tonnes of CO2e) in FY19 – Scope 3 Business coalition, Corporate Leaders Group and SolarPower FY19, our scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 2.9% in Europe, among others. absolute terms, compared to FY18, and by 0.3% compared to FY16. Our climate footprint in FY19 23,494 23,202 24,119 23,431 Our operational emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are responsible for around 2.5% of our total climate footprint. In FY19, our scope 1 and Our science-based targets % Our emission reduction goals are approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative, and the targets covering our operations (scopes 1 and 2) are consistent with reductions required to keep Purchased goods and services (1) 53 % Use of sold products (11) 19 % warming to 1.5°C: Customer travel to and from stores 16 % » By 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions from and home deliveries (9) across all Ingka Group operations by 80% in absolute Product transport and distribution to 4% terms, compared to 2016. This covers our direct and stores and warehouses (4) indirect energy-related emissions (scope 1 and 2). Others 5 8% » By 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Ingka FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 (Number indicates Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope 3 category number) Group customer and co-worker travel and customer deliveries by 50% in relative terms2, compared to 2016 (scope 3). Reducing the footprint of the IKEA product range About our climate footprint reporting Inter IKEA Group, which is responsible for developing the ► The external assurance scope for FY19 climate and energy data only covers our direct carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2). Data within the external assurance IKEA product range and supply chain, has committed to scope is indicated with an asterisk. Scope 3 emission data is unassured. Read more on page 93. reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the IKEA value chain ► Due to inconsistencies with data on gross building area in some countries, we're unable to report on carbon efficiency this year. We'll will report on carbon efficiency data in FY20. by at least 15% in absolute terms3 by 2030, compared to ► In FY19, we performed reviews on data governance, ways of working and reporting policy. This affects the carbon footprint data we previously disclosed. For 2016. Accounting for expected growth in this period, this more information, see page 93. Historical climate footprint data including restatements can be found in Appendix, see page 114. translates to, on average, a 70% climate footprint reduction per IKEA product. To read more, go to about.ikea.com. * Data included in the external assurance scope 1 Emissions from company cars, on-site vehicles and refrigerants have been excluded for FY16-FY19, and a more consistent reporting approach will be introduced in FY20. 2 Base year for Ingka Group science-based targets 1 In FY19, we made restatements of the FY16-18 data as a result of updated reporting methods, which lowered the FY16 baseline (see Appendix). 3 Scope 1 and 2 emissions relate to energy used in landlord common parts and shared services. 2 By 2030, we aim to halve emissions relative to the number of co-workers and number of visitors to our stores, compared to the FY16 baseline. 4 Scope 3 data outside our external assurance scope. Restated historical data is available in Appendix. 3 The scope includes the footprints of materials, food ingredients, product transport (excluding customer deliveries), the production at suppliers, and the use of 5 Includes the following Greenhouse Gas Protocol Categories: Capital goods (2), Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2) (3), Waste products in people’s homes. generated in operations (5), Business travel (6), Employee commuting (7), End of life treatment of sold products (12) and Downstream leased assets (13). Back to table of contents 72 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 73 How might climate change impact our business Understanding the impact in a world that is below 2°C or 4°C warmer? of climate change on our business T he scenario analysis shows that there are some major potential costs to our business from climate While the below 2°C scenario is likely to bring change. In a below 2°C scenario, our transport major costs to our business, there are also more This year, we report on our approach to managing climate change risks and decarbonisation opportunities costs could increase by 2030 and we may need billions opportunities to mitigate the risks with the right in line with the recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). of euros to renovate and adapt our real estate portfolio. This highlights the need to continue our focus on energy investments and through the actions we've planned I n FY19, we conducted a detailed assessment for climate-related understand the physical risks of climate change to our business and efficiency and investments in renewable energy. In a in our sustainability strategy. Doing so will also create risks and decarbonisation opportunities to understand the operations. The results are summarised to the right. world that’s 4°C warmer, 62 buildings in China and the a range of opportunities for higher revenue, for strategic and financial implications for our business. We then USA (among our top countries by sales) are potentially example, from our renewable energy investments. carried out a more detailed scenario analysis of financially material The risk assessment helps us mitigate at risk due to storms, cyclones and floods and we could risks in three areas of our business: transport1, energy and real lose significant revenue as our business is disrupted. However, the analysis shows that the cost of inaction climate-related risks and capture estate. We also identified significant benefits for our is too high – in the 4°C scenario, our ability to mitigate decarbonisation opportunities. business to reduce its reliance on fossil fuels and its We considered two scenarios2: global temperature increase kept climate footprint. These include cost savings through the risks is very limited and the costs for the business below 2°C in 2030, and a global temperature increase of 4°C with We focused on our own operations and did not model the impact energy efficiency, generating renewable energy and are far higher and more damaging. impacts modelled up to 2050. The first scenario (temperature of climate change in our value chain. However, we believe there switching to electric vehicles. increase kept well below 2°C) enables us to better understand the are also material risks to our business related to resource scarcity risks we may face as the world transitions to a net-zero carbon and damage to the ecosystems we rely on. This could affect the economy, such as the potential financial impact of changes to policy, availability of raw materials for the IKEA products we sell, such Results of our climate change scenario analysis1 legislation, technology and markets expected across every sector. as wood and cotton. There are also opportunities to develop our The second scenario (a temperature increase of 4°C) helps us business by enabling customers to lower their climate footprint. SECTOR BELOW 2°C IN 2030 4°C IN 2030-2050 RISKS: RISKS: 1) 62 buildings in our top countries by sales Our approach to managing climate-related risks and opportunities Billions of euros of investment required up to 2030 to reduce energy intensity in our buildings to meet future potentially at risk from climate change in 2050. 2) Potentially billions of euros of revenue losses from ► Governance risks and feed into the annual group risk process through the regulations. business interruption due to factors including high The Management Board of Ingka Holding B.V. is responsible for sustainability risk register. temperatures, increased precipitation and extreme Real estate OPPORTUNITIES: weather events like tropical cyclones. the Ingka Group Sustainability Strategy and progress against Risks are assessed based on likelihood and impact on a fiveReduced real estate operational costs as a result of its targets, including our climate change goals. The strategy is point scale from rare and insignificant up to almost certain and investments in energy efficiency, renewable heating and OPPORTUNITIES: 1) Increase climate resilience measures formally decided by Management Board, considering advice critical. cooling and on-site generation of renewable electricity. for our buildings. 2) Consider the risk assessment results from Supervisory Board. Management Board is also responsible The Sustainability Management Team assigns risks to in our expansion strategy and where we locate new for risk management, including sustainability related risks, risk owners within the group sustainability team and across buildings. supported by various boards and committees. Climate-related other business functions, who are responsible for developing risk assessment is reported to the Sustainability Committee mitigation plans. Sustainability leaders support the risk owners RISKS: Increased regulation leads to stronger energy No analysis was performed for energy and the Risk & Compliance Committee once per year. The with knowledge and expertise to develop mitigation plans. efficiency requirements for buildings that reduce energy in the 4°C scenario. Sustainability Committee, chaired by our CEO, meets twice a year In FY19, we also conducted an additional risk assessment consumption, as well as a switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy. Up to 39% energy cost increase. to define and follow up on the overarching priorities, principles focused on climate-related risks and decarbonisation Energy and frameworks for sustainability. The Sustainability Committee opportunities, and we modelled the potential impacts of two OPPORTUNITIES: 1) Increase in revenue from our off-site reports regularly to the Ingka Group Management Board. climate change scenarios. We're developing plans to mitigate the and on-site renewable electricity investments, see page ► Strategy risks and capture the opportunities identified in the assessment 75. 2) Reduced heating and cooling costs from using The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and and scenario analysis. efficient renewable technologies decarbonisation opportunities are discussed on page 73. ► Metrics and targets ► Risk management We've set ambitious science-based targets to reduce our scope RISKS: 1) Under the assumption of constant business RISKS: A 13% increase in transport costs in 2030, rising Climate-related risks are integrated into the Ingka Group risk 1 and 2 emissions in absolute terms and to reduce relative volumes, overall transportation costs would increase by to a 33% increase in 2050, due to growing costs of management framework. The Ingka Group Sustainability emissions from our indirect (scope 3) travel and transport 20% by 2030. 2) Transition to a low carbon economy leads maintaining transport infrastructure. Management Team identifies and assesses risks annually, footprint (see page 70). to an increase in fuel prices through regulatory changes OPPORTUNITIES: Partner with others to increase Transport 2 such as increasing vehicle efficiency standards. including climate-related issues. Risks are reported to the Inter IKEA Group has set science-based targets to reduce resilience of transport infrastructure. Sustainability Committee and Risk & Compliance Committee once emissions in absolute terms for the IKEA product range. We OPPORTUNITIES: 1) Avoid disruption and rising costs by a year. From FY19, climate-related risks have also been identified regularly track climate change metrics (see page 71). reducing dependency on conventional road transport. in a bottom-up process led by Country Retail Managers who log 2) Partner with forward-thinking suppliers to develop innovative solutions for zero-emission transport. 1 For transport in the scope of Ingka Group – transport from warehouses to stores and home deliveries to customers. 1 The analysis in these scenarios was primarily based on FY18 data, therefore % changes are based on an FY18 baseline. For the risks analysis we based this on our 2 Our scenarios were based on the following models: Below 2°C scenario – International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Perspectives 2017; Below 2°C scenario business as it was in FY18, without implementation of our sustainability strategy by 2030. For the opportunities and risk mitigation we've based this on the plans – International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2018; 4°C scenario – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) 2014. There is we've set out in our sustainability strategy, including goals to be achieved by 2030. currently no available International Energy Agency model for 1.5°C. 2 For transport in the scope of Ingka Group – transport from warehouses to stores and home deliveries to customers. Back to table of contents 74 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 75 All in for renewable energy We believe the future of energy is renewable, and we’ve invested heavily in wind and solar power over the past decade. B eing powered by renewable electricity and using renewable electricity with lower emission factors, such as renewable electricity, heating and cooling, is critical to meet our science-based the climate footprint of our operations (scope 2) was 45.8% lower emission reduction targets. However, we want to go far than if we had purchased the average electricity mix available in beyond our own operations and help to accelerate a global the countries where we operate, see page 115. Our position on transition to renewable energy. renewable electricity governs our approach in each country, see box below. Investing in renewable energy As a next step, we’re committed to consuming 100% renewable In FY19, we generated renewable energy equivalent to 93.4%1 of the electricity across all the countries where we operate by 2025. energy used in our operations, up from 81% last year. Our recent Through IKEA Energy Services, we’re enabling our customers to investments in wind and solar power put us on track to exceed our generate and use renewable energy at home too (see page 32). 2020 target to generate more renewable energy than the energy we consume. We'll consume 100% renewable electricity Since 2009, we’ve invested close to EUR 2.5 billion in wind and solar power, helping to grow the amount of renewable electricity in all of our buildings by 2025. in the grid. We own and operate 31 wind farms in 14 countries, including a new investment in Romania in FY19. Read more about Renewable heating and cooling our investment portfolios on page 39. We also have 920,000 solar We’re switching from fossil fuels to renewable technologies, such modules on our sites. Our total renewable energy generation from as ground and air source heat pumps and biogas or biomass wind, solar and other renewable sources was 3,151 gigawatt-hours boilers. In FY19, almost half of our sites had renewable heating and (GWh). cooling systems installed, sometimes in combination with other technologies. We generated renewable energy We’re aiming for 100% renewable heating and cooling across all our buildings by 2030, and in FY19, we developed road maps equivalent to 93% of the energy to reach this goal in every Ingka Group country. All new buildings used in our operations. approved after 2020 will use renewable heating and cooling systems. Using renewable electricity We’re working with others to develop solutions enabling us to Sixty-six percent of the electricity we used worldwide in FY19 was retrofit hundreds of existing stores, shopping centres, offices and from renewable sources. This includes 8.4% from our own solar Distribution Centres. Last year, we worked with members of the electricity generated at Ingka Group sites. For the rest, we use European Heat Pump Association to evaluate the latest technologies, renewable electricity credits from the wind farms we own and discuss challenges and find ways forward. We’re sharing our findings operate. In countries where that’s not possible, we buy credits to help other retailers accelerate their transition away from fossil from others to increase overall demand for renewables. By using fuel systems. Improving energy efficiency Energy efficiency is an opportunity to reduce our climate footprint, Our renewable electricity approach cut costs today and protect us from rising energy costs in the future. We have a three-part approach to achieving our goal of 100% renewable electricity consumption, in the order T presented below. This hierarchy enables us to prioritise approaches that have the most direct impact on the his year, we asked every Ingka Group country to develop relying on more daylight, improving insulation and using energy energy action plans for 2020. We’ve approved EUR 40 million recovery from heating and cooling. development of the renewable electricity market. worth of investments in energy-saving projects as a result. Our newest stores showcase these technologies and achieve ► Onsite: We prioritise onsite renewable electricity generation ► Purchase from a third party: When the onsite and offsite significant savings. IKEA Greenwich, for example, is 80% more and consumption, e.g. solar. approaches aren’t possible or don't enable us to cover all energy efficient than building standards required at the time. In Tools include switching to LED lights FY19, our LIVAT Wuxi meeting place was recognised as the National electricity consumption, the third option is to purchase renewable and relying on more daylight, improving Green Mall 2018 by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce for its use of ► Offsite: If we can’t generate sufficient renewable electricity electricity from a supplier, including renewable electricity onsite, we aim to generate the equivalent amount of renewable attributes certificates. While this doesn’t directly add or finance insulation and using energy recovery from sustainable technologies and facility management practices. electricity offsite. We invest directly in renewable electricity new renewable energy capacity, it indirectly incentivises Due to inconsistencies with data on gross building area in some heating and cooling. countries, we're unable to report on energy efficiency this year. We generation offsite, and use all or some of our renewable electricity renewable energy suppliers to increase their capacity by adding certificates to cover our consumption. more market demand. will report on energy efficiency data in FY20. Our energy staircase , a toolkit of energy efficiency measures, Every co-worker can find opportunities to save energy. Read more helps our store and facility managers to identify and measure on page 35. savings. Some of the tools include switching to LED lights and 1 If sub-metered tenant consumption was not included, generated renewable energy would be equivalent to 112% of consumption. Back to table of contents 76 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 77 Total energy (electricity, heating and cooling) use and share of renewable energy FY19 Customers in 7 countries Total energy use Renewable energy use 1 Non-renewable Share of renewable (MWh) (MWh) energy use (MWh) energy as % of total use IKEA Retail 1,853,736 1,196,417 657,319 64.5 generate their own renewable energy Distribution Centres 259,737 144,845 114,891 55.8 with IKEA Home Solar Ingka Centres 2 664,821 38,733 626,087 5.8 Offices 30,465 19,914 10,552 65.4 Other units (wind farms) 8,134 4,122 4,012 50.7 Total 2,816,893 1,404,031 1,412,862 49.8 Renewable energy generation by type (GWh) We own 534 FY17 FY18 FY19 and operate Electricity from wind 2,264 2,559 2,984 Electricity from solar photovoltaic modules 124 155 167 66% of Heat from renewable sources 44 44 n/a (biomass heat, solar water heating, geothermal) wind turbines We have electricity Total (GWh) 2,432 2,758 3,151 920,000 in 14 countries Electricity generated from Ingka Group wind power investments by country 3 (MWh) we use is from renewable sources solar modules on USA 877,366 our sites POLAND 464,804 SWEDEN 369,959 CANADA 354,719 GERMANY 273,434 2.5 We've invested FRANCE 157,242 PORTUGAL 154,695 FINLAND 143,121 LITHUANIA 141,731 EUR billion IRELAND 23,434 in onsite and offsite UK 23,088 wind and solar power over the last decade BELGIUM 3,717 1 Purchased certified renewable electricity and district heating, and renewable energy generated and used on-site. 2 Excluding submetered tenant consumption. Data not comparable with FY18 data due to changes in our reporting approach for Ingka Centres. 3 Not including Denmark (1,137 MWh) and Romania. Back to table of contents 78 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 79 Striving for zero waste and using resources in a circular way We’re always looking for ways to reduce waste, increase recycling, use fewer resources and apply circular principles across our business. M ost of the waste we produce comes from our IKEA Retail operations, and around half of it is packaging material. The rest is product waste, food waste and other operational Total waste produced (tonnes) 2 waste like light bulbs. We prioritise actions to prevent, reduce, reuse and recycle waste – landfill is always the last resort. Some waste is Tackling emissions incinerated for energy recovery. 665,119 We’re exploring new ways to reduce product waste as every item 629,600 that isn’t wasted is one less to be produced and transported to our 572,774 from travel and deliveries stores. We’re working with partners to develop circular resource flows and to start measuring and reducing use of virgin materials across our operations. In FY19, we continued to work with others to build a circular economy, for example at the World Circular Economy Forum 2019 in Around 15% of our emissions come from customers travelling to and from our stores, Finland. We explored circular economy principles with other retailers co-worker travel and last-mile delivery of products to customers’ homes. at a workshop convened by the European Commission in Brussels. O ur work on sustainable mobility helps us manage risks to Towards zero-emission home deliveries Recycling and reusing waste our business from low-emission zones, road tolls for fossil As customers shop more online, emissions from home deliveries We produced 5% less waste across our operations in FY19, reversing fuel vehicles and diesel bans. will grow to be a bigger part of our climate footprint. Deliveries also the trend from previous years. The amount of waste we recycled contribute to increased air pollution and congestion in cities. To increased to 71% in FY19, up from 67% in FY18. FY17 FY18 FY19 Low carbon travel for customers and co-workers tackle this, we aim to have only electric or other zero-emission home Investments to improve waste reporting systems have resulted Reducing emissions from people travelling to our stores and centres deliveries by 2025 in all our countries, and also find new ways of in better quality waste data collected across our sites this year. We is a significant challenge. We’re developing our plans and learning working to reduce congestion. began tracking waste data every month and sharing results with our customers’ travel needs so that we can develop affordable, sustainability managers in each country. More regular data reports convenient and low carbon solutions. We’re targeting 100% electric or and benchmarking between sites help store managers to spot issues In FY19, we carried out research in the USA with both customers and find solutions quickly. ►►► emission-free home deliveries in Waste disposal by business unit (%) and co-workers to better understand how they travel to stores and what they need in order to use more sustainable travel options. all Ingka Group countries by 2025. Waste produced by business unit FY19 (% of total) 1 6% We also held workshops with younger consumers in inner cities to 10 % understand their needs. We’re using the results of our research to We don't have our own delivery fleet but partner with transport 9% 18 % develop plans to halve relative emissions from customer travel by providers to switch to electric vehicles and find zero-emission 13 % 2030. alternatives. 13.5 % 11 % In total, around 4.8% of our deliveries were made using electric New city formats, including in London, Paris and Shanghai, enable or zero-emission vehicles in FY19 – double the amount in the 10.9 % 69 % customers and co-workers to reach us by public transport, bike previous year. This was despite the total volume of deliveries or on foot. We're making it easier to charge electric vehicles, with increasing by 14%. But we’re still a long way from our goals, and 91 % charging points at 82% of our stores and 62% of Ingka Centres in we face challenges such as high initial investment, lack of charging FY19. We’ll provide access to electric vehicle charging stations at all infrastructure and the availability and performance of vehicles. 85 % 77 % our locations by 2020. Despite these challenges, we’ve achieved 100% delivery by electric 75.6 % 71 % deliveries in Shanghai one year ahead of our goal (read more on 3% page 22), and we’re working hard to apply what we’ve learnt in We’re making it easy for customers to charge other locations. We've deployed electric vehicles in 14 Ingka Group IKEA Retail 28 % their electric vehicles with electric vehicle countries now, with more markets ready to follow. We know the Distribution Centres 0% solutions are available, and we need to work together with others to Ingka Centres (common areas) 9% charging stations at 82% of our stores in FY19. achieve these ambitious goals. IKEA Retail Distribution Ingka Centres Offices Total We’re investing in charging infrastructure for customers and 1 Due to a recalculation of waste generated in our Ingka Centres meeting Centres (common areas) (average) Our co-workers took 27% fewer business flights in FY19, co-workers to use in every Ingka Group country and supporting places for FY17-18, we have restated waste data for these years. Restated data Recycled compared with FY18, and virtual meetings increased by 11%. We’re several transport providers to develop new electric van and truck and a detailed breakdown of waste produced per business unit is available in also committed to ensure that all owned, leased and shared vehicles technologies. We’re also partnering with others as a founding Appendix. Incinerated with energy recovery in our fleet are electric or zero-emission by 2025. member of EV100, a global coalition to promote electric vehicles. 2 Not including offices (<0.1%). Sent to landfill or incinerated without energy recovery Back to table of contents 80 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / CIRCULAR AND CLIMATE POSITIVE / 81 PILKÅN wash-basin mixer tap ►►► In FY19, IKEA stores in Russia competed to increase recycling Food Markets by the end of August 2020. In FY19, many stores € 34.99 rates and achieved a collective recycling rate of 68%, up from 63% in continued to weigh every bit of food thrown away in the kitchens to FY18. Better waste sorting, co-worker engagement and food waste find ways to cut waste. Stores in Russia and Poland began weighing recycling paid off, with winning teams rewarded with a trip to IKEA food waste this year, and now we have 68% of our stores worldwide Warsaw in Poland to learn about leading sustainable practices. doing so. It has saved 1.5 million kg of food from being wasted in Increasing recycling rates at Ingka Centres is challenging because FY19 – equivalent to 6.5 million kg of greenhouse gas emissions. much of the waste is mixed consumer waste that tends to be contaminated and harder to sort and recycle. In some countries, the Phasing out single-use plastic lack of recycling infrastructure makes it difficult for both businesses We’re making progress towards our goal to phase out all single-use and consumers to recycle more. plastic items, like straws and cutlery used for food. In FY19, our IKEA At 14 of our Ingka Centres meeting places in Russia we've Restaurants and IKEA Bistros in the UK and Canada stopped their installed waste sorting facilities and launched incentives with prizes single-use plastic habit. We’re using alternatives like wooden cutlery like concert tickets to encourage visitors to sort waste for recycling. and paper straws from sustainably managed forests. From January We successfully gave 47 million 2020, we'll replace all single-use plastic items such as straws, cups, cutlery and plates with alternatives made from renewable Managing Water use by business unit (m3) 1 water resources materials 1. recovered products a second life. One remaining challenge is the inner coating of single-use cups FY17 FY18 FY19 – the only commercially available cups contain a thin plastic coating, W IKEA Retail 5,346,839 6,009,125 5,862,693 Preventing product waste made from materials from renewable sources, for food safety e aim to use water efficiently in our business and Some of our products are taken off display in store, returned by reasons and we’re continuing to explore better solutions. Inter IKEA in FY19 we continued to use harvested, reused or Distribution Centres 264,567 270,602 270,729 customers or damaged in transit before they reach the IKEA store or Group, which develops and supplies the IKEA range we sell, is also recycled water wherever possible. We use water-saving on the way to customers’ homes. phasing out all single-use plastic from the product range. technologies at our current sites and when we design new sites. Ingka Centres 2,463,212 2,480,484 2,539,254 R ecovering products that go back into our stock or are sold at a For example, rainwater harvesting tanks and water-efficient fittings (common areas) discount, instead of being wasted, is an important part of our efforts at the new IKEA Greenwich store halved the store’s water use. Offices 42,109 69,029 48,628 to move to more circular resource flows and save raw materials. Total water use decreased by 1.2% in FY19. Water use in our stores In total, 65 million products were returned or damaged in FY19, decreased by 1.9%, in spite of an increase in the number of stores Total 8,116,728 8,829,240 8,721,304 and we saved three quarters of them – 47 million – from going to during the year, while Ingka Centres' water use increased by 1.2%. waste. We weren't able to recover 18 million products that were damaged, lost, expired or returned by customers. This means our Being a responsible buyer recovery rate improved by 2% compared to last year. We know there’s always more we can do to prevent product waste and we’re tackling it across our business by: » Repairing and repacking products to go back on the shelf. Beyond the home furnishing products designed and supplied by Inter IKEA Group, we also buy goods Our dedicated product recovery teams in stores repacked 9 and services from thousands of other suppliers, including for construction, delivery, IT and food. million products in FY19 – 300,000 more than last year. T he size of our business means we can use our scale to » Exploring a circular economy approach for co-worker » Giving store display, end of range and returned products secure more sustainable sources. The IKEA supplier code of uniforms. a new home through the As-Is area in stores. Customers conduct, IWAY, sets out our social, ethical and environmental » Buying more renewable materials as we replace singlelove the discounted items, and 38 million products were requirements, see page 84. use plastic items in our IKEA Restaurants and Cafés and resold in FY19 – that’s 3 million more than in FY18. IKEA Bistros. Going circular in our supply chain » Providing a range of options for customers and co-workers In FY19, we continued to work with our suppliers for non-home By 2030 all materials purchased for our to get spare parts so products can more easily be repaired, furnishing materials like packaging, IT equipment and construction non-home furnishing products will be with around 70% of stores now benefitting from a better materials to find more resource conscious and circular solutions, spare parts system. such as: renewable, recyclable or recycled. » Closing the loop so that thousands of tonnes of waste Fighting food waste cardboard at 24 IKEA stores in China is sent back for ► To read more about how IKEA products are Every year, we serve meals to many millions of people across our recycling by the paper factory that supplies IKEA packaging. stores. We’re fighting food waste, and we’re aiming to halve our food » Reusing over 10,000 IT products that were refurbished and designed and sourced with sustainability in mind, waste from IKEA Restaurants and Cafés, IKEA Bistros and Swedish resold or partly recovered, instead of wasted, together with visit about.ikea.com our IT supplier. 1 Due to supply delays, some countries will not receive the new disposable items for our IKEA Restaurants and Cafés, as well as IKEA Bistros, in time and will need 1 Water use FY17-FY18 restated, following improved reporting process for Ingka Centres and correction of historical reporting error for Customer Fulfillment in to continue with alternative solutions until the new items arrive. FY18. Restated data is available in Appendix. Back to table of contents 82 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE / 83 Respecting human rights The size and scale of our business means we impact the lives of millions of people around the world – our co-workers, customers, workers in our supply chain and the communities around us. Wherever we operate, we have a responsibility to respect human rights. W e’re committed to implementing the UN Guiding In FY19, we developed further detailed principles for child Principles on Business and Human Rights. We address participation and safeguarding. This means co-workers organising human rights in many of our strategies, policies and or participating in activities that involve children and their families processes, including the Ingka Group Policy on Human Rights and have the right tools to engage them in an ethical and responsible Equality, and update these regularly in line with emerging risks and way. expectations. In FY19, we conducted a detailed analysis of our existing policies Our commitment to children’s rights means: and procedures against the UN Guiding Principles and identified » Supporting decent work for our co-workers and people opportunities to strengthen our policies and processes, due in our supply chain, including young workers, parents and diligence and grievance mechanism. This work will continue in FY20. caregivers, while eliminating child labour. Human rights risks are integrated into the risk management » Ensuring our IKEA stores and Ingka Centres are playful and process of Ingka Group. Potential risks in the retail industry include: safe spaces for children – for example, by providing Småland modern slavery and forced labour, low wages, excessive hours, crèches at our stores and kid’s centres, playgrounds and Fair and inclusive unsafe working conditions, harassment and prevention of collective activity areas at our Ingka Centres meeting places. bargaining. As a service business, the risk of child labour in our » Offering products for children that are safe and marketing operations is relatively low. We'll never tolerate any form of child or these appropriately and responsibly. forced labour, modern slavery or mistreatment of workers. » Contributing to a healthy environment for children to live W e’re present in many sustainable, child-friendly and connected We mitigate potential human rights risks in our business and in, both now and in the future, through our climate positive communities, with millions neighbourhoods and cities by working with in our supply chain by monitoring compliance with our human initiatives. of people connected to our partners to tackle societal challenges. Our ambition rights policies and with the standards set out in IWAY – the IKEA » Reinforcing community and government efforts to business, including customers, co-workers In FY19, we: supplier code of conduct. We only work with suppliers who meet respect children’s rights. and people in our supply chain.1 » Inspired 244,000 children to play and focus areas: our standards, and we conduct reviews to check compliance (see We want to contribute to thriving more by designing their dream page 84). Fairer lives for young and migrant workers communities wherever we operate by being soft toy through the Let’s Play for Our ambition for 2030 is to improve We never accept child labour. We investigate and follow up on any an inclusive business and by providing Change campaign, in IKEA stores the well-being of millions of people by Everyone at Ingka Group should be treated suspected case, prioritising the best interests and safety of the child. opportunities for the many people in our since FY16. becoming a truly inclusive and peopleOur belief is that young people who are legally able to work should daily work. We also strive to have a broader fairly, and we expect our co-workers to always have access to decent employment opportunities. They should » Completed 417 reviews against centred company and employer. uphold our values. positive impact in society. In this way, we’ll not do hazardous work, night work or overtime. The IKEA Way on support the IKEA ambition to help create a IWAY, the IKEA supplier code We will do this by: Preventing Child Labour and Supporting Young Workers makes our fairer and more equal society. of conduct, to check social and We’re committed to providing decent, meaningful and engaging position clear to all suppliers. environmental standards at » Providing and supporting decent employment for every co-worker. Everyone at Ingka Group should We take the risks of modern slavery very seriously. We have We can make a difference by: providing suppliers. and meaningful work and standing be treated fairly, and we expect our co-workers to always uphold safeguards to reduce these risks in our supply chain, including and supporting decent and meaningful up for equality. our values. Read more about our co-workers on page 36, and our people being forced or bonded into labour, having their passports employment for our co-workers and people » Supported refugee inclusion in approach to business ethics on page 106. taken away or becoming trapped by large recruitment fees. This is » Co-creating sustainable, child-friendly in our supply chain; helping those currently nine countries with programmes and connected neighbourhoods and a particular risk for migrant workers who are seeking work away outside the labour market to improve their to develop skills for employment. cities, together with relevant partners. Respecting and supporting children’s rights from home. In FY19, we continued to roll out our Guidelines on employment skills; and creating income We believe children are the most important people in the world. Responsible Recruitment, designed to help our suppliers and service opportunities for vulnerable people by » Continued partnerships with 32 » Contributing to safe, affordable and That's why we always try to act in the best interest of the child and providers to reduce modern slavery risks. integrating social entrepreneurs in our social entrepreneurs and social sustainable places to call home in the want to create a better life for children and families that come into supply chain. We’re also co-creating businesses across 16 countries. communities where we are present. contact with our business. In FY19, we did not identify any cases of child labour or modern We continuously work to implement the Children’s Rights and slavery in the Ingka Group supply chain. During onsite reviews, Business Principles into our daily work, which were developed jointly we identified some issues with suppliers having the correct by Save the Children, the UN Global Compact and UNICEF. We want documentation in place, and we agreed to corrective action plans to 1 In this report, we discuss the supply chain of Ingka Group that provides non-home furnishing products and services. For more information about the supply chain for the home furnishing products we sell in to put this into practice in our daily work by implementing a leading resolve this. our stores, see Inter IKEA Group Sustainability Report. example of a child-friendly retailer concept in 100 locations by 2025. Back to table of contents 84 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE / 85 Our performance in FY19 Supporting decent work in our supply chain In FY19, we completed 417 Ingka Group supplier reviews, up from 314 reviews in FY18. These were completed by our internal IWAY Major non-compliances are reported to the relevant Ingka Group decision making body. We will phase out suppliers who don't Sustainability Risk & Verification team, and in some cases, we implement their corrective action plans. We have tens of thousands of suppliers providing products and services from construction, security and completed joint reviews together with third-party auditors. cleaning to home delivery, product assembly and food for our customer and co-worker restaurants. We found 137 major non-compliances (issues related to critical IWAY Musts ) at 85 suppliers, up from 38 major non-compliances in W e want to use our scale as a buyer to influence standards We have a 10-step process to manage risks in our supply chain FY18. We completed more supplier reviews in FY19 and continued to Location of IWAY reviews in FY19 in our supply chain, selecting suppliers who share our (see below). Suppliers are reviewed and reassessed in a continuous apply our risk-based approach, targeting reviews with the highest values and work together to have a positive impact on IWAY cycle. Sustainability developers in our procurement team risk suppliers. Non-compliances were mostly related to working societies and communities. We expect our suppliers to treat their build relationships with suppliers and offer training to help them hours, accident insurance and fair wages at suppliers in Russia, EUROPE AND RUSSIA 68 % co-workers fairly and to adopt the IKEA supplier code of conduct. understand and apply IWAY. Australia, Germany and China. The IKEA Way on Purchasing Products, Materials and Services For the highest risk suppliers, we conduct IWAY reviews to check If we find that suppliers aren't meeting our standards, we agree ASIA PACIFIC 26 % – IWAY – is the IKEA supplier code of conduct. It sets out minimum compliance with our standards. This is done by a team of 40 trained on an action plan with the supplier to correct this. Major nonrequirements on environmental, social and working conditions. It’s Sustainability Risk & Verification Reviewers who are independent compliances have to be fixed within 14 days and all remaining issues NORTH AMERICA 6% based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United from our procurement team. We also use third-party auditors to within 90 days. Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the eight core check IWAY compliance at some suppliers. conventions defined in the ILO Fundamental Principles of Rights Location of major IWAY at Work and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Our suppliers are responsible for communicating IWAY non-compliances in FY19 Major IWAY non-compliances by supplier type in FY19 IWAY also applies to the suppliers in the IKEA supply chain1 for requirements to their sub suppliers and ensuring high-risk sub the home furnishing products sold in our stores. suppliers comply with the critical parts of IWAY ( IWAY Musts ). 27.8 % Services (e.g. home delivery, IWAY is updated regularly, and the Ingka Sustainability We support suppliers throughout this process. Russia 32.8 % assembly and installation) Compliance Working Group – with members from procurement, Australia 14.6 % Facility management (e.g. cleaning, risk and compliance as well as and business experts – oversees 32.1 % security and waste management) the development of our suppliers. They review the most severe Germany 10.2 % compliance issues to share learnings across the business. What does it mean for a supplier to be China 9.5 % 14.6 % Food compliant with the IWAY approach? Poland 6.6 % 9.5 % Distribution services (e.g. At Ingka Group, the size and complexity of our supply chain means warehouse and store logistics) we take a risk-based approach to embedding IWAY. We use internal Suppliers must have: India 5.8 % Professional services (e.g. travel, 4.4 % finance and insurance services) and external data to assess risks based on the suppliers’ location » Signed an IWAY commitment as part of their contract. » An assigned risk rating. Spain 5.1 % Equipment and the individual characteristics of the business they run. All new 3.6 % (e.g. IT and electronics) suppliers are evaluated on the risk of them not complying with the » A risk management and mitigation plan in place Serbia 2.9 % IWAY Standard and given a risk rating of critical, high, medium or – for higher risk suppliers, this includes site reviews. 2.2 % Material handling and storage Sweden 2.9 % low, which is regularly reviewed. Other 14.6 % 0.8 % Construction Business demand for service or product Partnering for positive impact 0. IWAY exempt 1. Communicate IWAY 2. Risk rating given to supplier based on 3. Assess the supplier’s readiness to Right at the heart of our company sits IWAY – the IKEA supplier code of conduct – a huge and important system to potential supplier. where they operate, the type of business and the meet IWAY requirements – includes an answers they provide to an initial questionnaire. onsite visit for higher risk suppliers. that affects anyone who deals with the thousands of suppliers we have worldwide, says Justo Candel, IWAY Sustainability Developer based in Madrid, Spain. ► Justo first joined IKEA over a decade ago. Today, his job as a Training and development includes explaining IWAY sustainability developer in the procurement department of Ingka requirements or technical terms, educating suppliers about Group involves implementing IWAY with suppliers in Spain and the benefits of compliance or highlighting good social or 7. Reassess risk 6. Support the supplier to implement IWAY 5. Share IWAY commitment internally 4. Commit the supplier to meeting once a year for all by providing training and development to so that all teams know business with IWAY requirements when they sign Portugal. He says partnership is the key to having a positive social environmental practices. active suppliers. help them understand requirements. the supplier can go ahead. the business contract. and environmental impact. Sustainability developers also spot opportunities to do things Sustainability developers like Justo assess risks and support differently. Last year, Justo and his colleagues noticed a pattern suppliers in every country where Ingka Group operates. They work of IWAY non-compliances with service providers in stores. Issues Risks mitigated hard to continuously train, develop and raise standards among with working hours and a lack of days off were picked up regularly Opportunities identified suppliers. There’s a real sense that we’ll face challenges together during suppliers’ annual reviews. They ran workshops with the and work with our suppliers to find solutions, he says. onsite suppliers and piloted a different approach by training 8. Review IWAY compliance 9. Maintain IWAY at all times 10. Evaluate supplier and create corrective – which is the supplier’s performance. As IWAY experts, we share our knowledge with our suppliers the store team to carry out monthly spot checks. The result was action plans. responsibility. to help them maintain compliance. We have strict requirements, positive – with many more checks on working hours but far fewer but that doesn’t mean we're forcing them to spend a lot of time or non-compliance issues. The approach will be rolled out across all money on unnecessary processes, Justo continues. stores in Spain and Portugal next year. 1 For more information about the IKEA home furnishing supply chain visit about.ikea.com. Back to table of contents 86 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE / 87 The power of play Play is a critical part of every child’s development. It contributes directly to health and well-being, cognitive development, self-esteem and skills building. P lay is so important that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that every child has a right to play and to develop in a safe, secure environment. But around the world, With a donation from IKEA Family, IKEA Australia has transformed the Kidsafe House at The Children’s Hospital in Westmead, Sydney. The Kidsafe House is a play space children are spending less and less time playing. that demonstrates the very best in-home safety, so visiting parents, carers, students and health industry professionals can take away the knowledge and solutions to help them create a safer life at home. That’s why we’ve joined forces with UNICEF, Unilever, The LEGO Foundation and National Geographic to form the Real Play Coalition. Contributing to The ambition is to create a movement that prioritises the importance of play as something that not only lets children be children but also sparks the fire for a child’s development and learning. We believe that play is the rocket fuel of child development. Play lets children be children and is the rocket fuel for a child’s development and learning. thriving communities We want to play our part in contributing to thriving and inclusive local economies. The Value of Play Report1, launched by the coalition, calls for an We aim to have a positive impact on communities and people in our value chain urgent rethink of how children are given the time and space to play. Aimed at policymakers, educators and those shaping the global and to use our voice to highlight important issues. development agenda, the report explores the impact of declining O play, and highlights how low-play and play-poverty are fuelling ur approach includes: partnering with community We ramped up our commitment to increasing refugee inclusion inequality and a looming skills crisis. organisations to find solutions to social and environmental this year. In FY19, stores in nine countries ran initiatives to support Years of research have made us a vocal advocate for play as challenges; creating income opportunities for vulnerable refugees’ skills development and help them to find work with Ingka every child’s right and every human’s need. At the end of 2018, we people by working with social enterprises; investing in skills and Group or other companies (see page 37). In five countries, we sold shared our knowledge and love of play by filling our stores with work experience for refugees, migrants, people with disabilities, TILLTALANDE, a textile collection from the Jordan River Foundation, lots of opportunities to spark fun during our annual Let’s Play for young people and women outside the labour market; and that has created 250 jobs for local artisans and women refugees in Change campaign. Through the campaign, we want to highlight engaging our co-workers and customers to contribute to their local Jordan, in partnership with Inter IKEA Group. the importance of play – not just for children but for all people – by communities. inviting all customers to come play with us. This included launching SAGOSKATT soft toy collection, the result Building skills for employment IKEA stores in nine countries ran inititatives of the annual IKEA soft toy drawing competition. Creative children Our commitment to diversity means we see the potential talent in to support refugees’ skills development. draw the toy of their dreams, and five ideas are turned into real toys, everyone – including those who are struggling to access the labour with sales donated to local organisations supporting children. market. We want to support people who lack skills, experience or We’ve launched several initiatives to support refugees and face other barriers, to find work with us or another employer. By scale up our impact. By 2022, we aim to have 300 units supporting Since the start of the Let’s Play for Change campaign three years reflecting the diversity of our local communities, we broaden our refugees with skills for employment initiatives. We’ll also contribute ago, 244,000 children have designed their dream soft toy – and customer base, tap into new countries and better understand our to creating more jobs for local artisans and female refugees in half a million have taken part in IKEA Foundation programmes customers’ needs. Jordan by selling their products in all countries. supporting their right to play. Learn more about the IKEA By advocating for a positive change for refugees in society, we Foundation on page 108. We’re supporting young people, people with disabilities, people want to show other companies, organisations and key decisionover 50 years old, migrants, refugees and women who have been makers the value of refugee integration into host communities and out of the workplace. In FY19, we ran projects in 16 countries, often businesses. ►►► In Portugal, more than 350 primary school children benefitted from better 1 To read more about the Value of Play Report, opportunities to play in FY19 – with SAGOSKATT sales funding new play and in partnership with local NGOs and public bodies, providing skills see www.realplaycoalition.com/value-of-play-report creative activities through the Let’s Play for Change school competition. development and work experience placements. Back to table of contents 88 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / FAIR AND INCLUSIVE / 89 Children and Stable young people employment … are the focus of a long-term partnership between IKEA Retail UK & Ireland and the children’s charity Barnardo’s. for people with Our co-workers are fundraising, sharing their skills and revamping spaces to create disabilities bright, comfortable safe spaces. … is being provided by IKEA Bratislava Together we’ll improve frontline services in Slovakia, in partnership with a local for vulnerable children and young people, workshop. The skilful hands of people working together to support children’s with disabilities are making products in development and play. ÅTERSTÄLLA collection. Leftover textiles are upcycled and transformed into useful items like aprons and cushion covers, which will be sold at IKEA Bratislava. It can be difficult for people with disabilities to find work. This project has helped 15 people working in our organisation to develop new skills, feel valued in At IKEA Örebro in Sweden, a sewing society and contribute to the 32 service is provided by Vivillalla, a women’s co-operative which encourages collection. entrepreneurship and creates income Marta Prochyrová, Manager, opportunities for migrant women who Dom Svitania workshop, Slovakia struggle to enter the labour market. ►►► From FY20 we will prioritise working with social entrepreneurs in Partnering with social entrepreneurs three areas: Social entrepreneurs are experts at building businesses that tackle societal challenges. We’re partnering with social enterprises to help » Last mile fulfilment operations such as collection, delivery and product assembly. social them grow, while they help us to meet the needs of our business and customers. We also involve local communities in our IKEA Retail » Circular offers to customise, repair, upcycle, rent, resell or take back products and materials, such as textiles, to save entrepreneurs offer in new and exciting ways. This is not charity as it’s also good for our business – resources. » New business solutions that find innovative ways to solve in 16 countries entrepreneurs offer products and services we need in our retail business and societal problems. … are tackling societal challenges 300 operations, enhancing our offer to our customers. It also creates while growing their business – and ours – to opportunities for customers to contribute to their local communities, Supporting communities create a more positive and inclusive future with beautiful handicrafts, tasty food products and services with a We want to co-create sustainable, child-friendly and connected for people. social mission, available at affordable prices. neighbourhoods and cities, using our skills, experience and expertise in home furnishing, retail and sustainability. We want to We’re partnering with social enterprises Unemployed respond to local communities needs and create a positive impact by becoming hubs for people to share, meet and learn, as well as to help them grow, while they help us to meet young people to shop. Our goal is to empower 50% of IKEA Retail co-workers and the needs of our business and customers. 30% of IKEA Family members to be positive change-makers in their local communities, using IKEA as a platform to create more Ingka Group Our commitment is to accelerate and empower vulnerable people to move from dependency to independency. We'll do this by sustainable, fairer and inclusive neighbourhoods and cities by 2025. It takes people to make a positive change. Our talented and units will … are building a better future through The Power of Childhood programme support integrating social entrepreneurs and social businesses into our retail passionate co-workers take an active role as change-makers in across four IKEA units in Catalonia, Spain. value chain. their communities by partnering with local partners, NGOs, social Young people receive training and skills Goal highlight: By 2025 we want all Ingka Group countries to entrepreneurs and community groups. For example, in Russia the development, mentoring from IKEA develop products or services made by local social businesses. So far, we’ve built partnerships with 32 social entrepreneurs and Learning Together project opens up schools and kindergartens, providing specialist equipment for children with disabilities and refugees co-workers and the chance to access paid internships and summer contracts. social businesses in 16 countries that support women and others special learning needs, to enable them to study with other children … with skills for employment Fifty-nine percent of 46 participants have who might be facing inequality or poverty, such as young people, and feel more included. In FY19, the third year of the project, around initiatives by 2022. accessed a job inside or outside IKEA since migrants or those with disabilities. 4,800 children participated with the support of 9,700 teachers. the project began in 2017. Back to table of contents 90 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT / 91 Deciding what matters Our People & Planet Positive strategy is informed by our own research, in-depth knowledge of our customers and consultation with our key stakeholders. Sustainability ► In 2017, we conducted a materiality Engaging with assessment to listen to our stakeholders as we formulated our strategy. We ranked issues based on our experience and on governance and our stakeholders feedback from key internal and external stakeholders. The issues most critical to our business, management and to our stakeholders, are listed below in Our key stakeholders include our co-workers, customers, NGOs, academics, alphabetical order. The IKEA Sustainability governments, partners and peers, who all challenge us to be our best. Strategy, issued by Inter IKEA Group, also R addresses topics that are the responsibility elationships with many external advocated with governments for a climateT of Inter IKEA Group, such as sourcing raw he Ingka Group Sustainability along with the Sustainability Managers of partners help us achieve our positive future and a fairer and more equal materials for home furnishing products and Strategy sets out the direction for IKEA Retail and Ingka Centres. ambitions, goals and targets as we society. food, and sustainable product design. the three businesses we operate: IKEA At the end of this year, we appointed contribute to broader efforts to tackle major We also collaborated with stakeholders Retail, Ingka Centres and Ingka Investments. all Country Retail Managers as Chief Read more on page: societal, environmental and regulatory on a range of issues relevant to our The strategy is formally decided by Sustainability Officer for their country. Circular economy  33, 66, 79 challenges. In our daily work, we raise our sustainability strategy focus areas in FY19. Management Board, considering advice This is a significant step forward in our voice and advocate where we want to see These include: Community involvement  87 from Supervisory Board. The Sustainability effort to embed sustainability into our change. » Human rights, diversity and Committee of the Management Board, core business at Ingka Group and broaden Co-worker well-being  55 inclusion: UN Women, Real Play chaired by the CEO of Ingka Group, defines ownership of our People & Planet Positive Customer travel & deliveries  22, 78 Together with partners we’ve Coalition, Business for Inclusive and follows up on the overarching priorities, strategy. Country CSOs are accountable for Growth Platform, Equal Pay principles and frameworks for sustainability delivering our goals at the country level, Diversity & inclusion  52 called for high-level policy International Coalition (EPIC), within Ingka Group. and sustainability is integrated into their Greenhouse gas emissions changes and advocated with Catalyst, Workplace Pride, Stonewall development programme and performance and air pollution  70, 78 governments for a climate and The Conference Board. Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), review process. » Climate change and energy: Pia Heidenmark Cook, oversees our Human rights  83 positive future. We Mean Business coalition, The performance against the commitments Ingka Group participates in the IKEA Public policy & advocacy  52, 70, 79, 86, 91 Climate Group, SolarPower Europe of our sustainability strategy. The CSO Strategic Sustainability Council. This is an Supplier and their We’re a member of the UN Global and Corporate Leaders Group. organises and is the deputy chairperson of Inter IKEA Group governance body that co-worker well-being  84 Compact (see page 111 for our UNGC index); » Circular economy: Ellen MacArthur the Sustainability Committee, supported by focuses on the IKEA Brand’s role in society, we work with the World Economic Forum; Foundation (CE100), the Circular Sustainable & responsible the Sustainability Management Team. The sustainability strategies and ambitions and we're a member of the World Business Economy 8 (CE8) – a group of sourcing of indirect materials Sustainability Management Team includes across the franchise system and compliance Council for Sustainable Development companies committed to a circular and customer services  81 managers from Group Sustainability, Group with requirements for sustainability goals (WBCSD). Together with partners, we’ve economy. Procurement and Group Communication, through IWAY. Water stewardship  81 called for high-level policy changes and Back to table of contents 92 / PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT PEOPLE AND PLANET POSITIVE / SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT / 93 Managing sustainability risks Like any large business, we face sustainability risks. To remain successful and to grow, we work to understand and address both the risks and opportunities that we face. S ocial, environmental and ethical risks are integrated into co-workers and customers; and social and environmental risks in our About our the Ingka Group Risk Management Framework. Risks are supply chain. More detailed information about climate change risks identified, assessed and managed across the business, and can be found on page 72. We discuss our approach to managing relevant functions are responsible for monitoring progress and social, environmental and ethical risks in more detail throughout this putting mitigation plans in place. report. sustainability reporting We assess risks on an ongoing basis, as well as conducting an annual sustainability risk review, led by the Sustainability Management Team. Risks are assessed using internal data and thirdparty reports from organisations such as the World Economic Forum Reporting non-financial and the World Resources Institute. Identified risks are assessed based on likelihood and impact. information Scope The Ingka Group Annual Summary & Sustainability Report is a the carbon footprint data we previously disclosed, and data restatements are clearly indicated where relevant. In line with the requirements of the EU Non-Financial combined report of our performance and achievements across our These risks are reported to the Ingka Group Sustainability business, including sustainability. It covers the financial year 2019 ► For Ingka Centres, we developed our reporting approach Committee and the Ingka Group Risk & Compliance Committee. Reporting Directive, more information on the (FY19) from 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2019, unless otherwise regarding the allocation of energy consumption between common The Ingka Group Risk Register is updated to reflect the latest following risks is disclosed: stated, and the entities controlled by Ingka Holding B.V. during this and leased areas in our meeting places to make it more consistent assessment. All risks have an owner in the relevant business area time. across regions. As a result, we have restated data for scope 1, 2 and who is responsible for leading efforts to mitigate the risk and » Environmental risks – see Circular and climate positive: 3 from FY16 and onwards. to provide regular feedback on developments during the year. Tackling climate change, Striving for zero waste and using Our sustainability report describes our progress against the Sustainability Leaders in Group Sustainability are assigned to resources in a circular way, pages 68-81. Ingka Group sustainability strategy, which sets our sustainability ► For scope 1 and 2, emissions from company cars and on-site support risk owners to develop mitigation plans. » Social and employee risks – see Our people: Equality, ambition, focus areas and goals up to 2030. Our strategy guides vehicles and refrigerants have been excluded for FY16-FY19 and a In FY19, we strengthened our risk process by adding a bottomdiversity and inclusion, Improving health, well-being and the contribution of Ingka Group to the IKEA ambition to become more consistent reporting approach will be introduced in FY20. up approach for each Ingka Group country to identify and report occupational safety, pages 48-55; and Fair and inclusive: people and planet positive. Ingka Group is the largest IKEA retailer local sustainability risks. Sustainability Managers in each country, Respecting human rights, Supporting decent work in our within the IKEA franchise system. Ingka Group operations include ► Some scope 3 models were developed and/or corrected for supported by Risk & Compliance Managers and other relevant supply chain, pages 83-85. three business areas which are within our reporting scope: IKEA historical data errors. co-workers, identify and record risks. Risks are consolidated into Retail (including Customer Fulfilment), Ingka Centres and Ingka the Ingka Group Sustainability Risk Register which is a key input » Human rights and children’s rights risks – see Fair and Investments. ► This year, we did not report on carbon or energy efficiency for the annual Ingka Group risk process. The bottom-up approach Inclusive: Respecting human rights & children’s rights, Inter IKEA Group sets the overall strategic direction for the IKEA performance, but we aim to report these indicators again in FY20. improves our understanding of sustainability risks in each country Supporting decent work in our supply chain pages 83-85; business and includes the companies that develop and supply the and whether there are any emerging risks that could affect our and Our people, pages 48-55. IKEA product and food ranges, certain manufacturing and Inter IKEA Historical climate footprint data including restatements can be strategic sustainability goals. Systems B.V. – the worldwide IKEA franchisor. Each year, Inter IKEA found in Appendix, see page 114. » Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and business ethics risks Group reports progress against the IKEA sustainability strategy from Key sustainability risks in FY19 – see Business ethics, page 106; and Fair and inclusive, across the IKEA value chain and franchise system. Data may also be affected by uncertainties in scientific knowledge The key sustainability risks identified in FY19 include: climate change page 84. or in the contextual data used in calculations, especially for scope disrupting our supply chain and business operations and impacting Environmental data 3 emissions. We use emission factors from publicly available Our reporting and data collection processes involve many internal sources like DEFRA, Department for Environment, Food & Rural and external stakeholders. The majority of data is collected from Affairs (2018) and IEA, International Energy Agency (2018) and from primary sources and entered into reporting systems. Energy-related local electricity and heat suppliers. Factors from publicly available Our sustainability risk management process information is usually obtained from real-time meters at each site, databases are integrated into our reporting system. Regular updates Risks are identified, reviewed and mitigated in a top-down and bottom-up annual risk assessment cycle. from invoices or from service providers. The primary unit used in of these databases are included in the services provided by our energy reporting is megawatt-hours (MWh). software vendor. Scope 2 emissions are calculated in accordance We calculate our energy and carbon footprint in accordance with with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, applying Top-down sustainability Results from top-down the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting both the market and location-based approaches. Our baseline for Risks reviewed by Top sustainability risks Risks reviewed by the Ingka risk assessment led risk assessment are aligned by Sustainability with risk owners and the Sustainability added to Ingka Group Group Risk & Compliance Standard using the operational control consolidation approach and greenhouse gas footprint disclosure is FY16. The global warming Committee Risk Register Committee Management Team mitigation starts our internal reporting criteria. The scope of external assurance in potentials (GWPs) used in the calculation of CO2e are based on the FY19 covers our direct carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2), see page 118. IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) over a 100-year period. We are currently in the process of updating scope 3 models which is why they have not been included in the assurance scope this year. We aim to ensure all information and data is relevant, Local market risks Sustainability Bottom-up risk Results from top-down risk assessment communicated and logged to Management Team assessment ongoing: communicated to Sustainability Managers and transparent, consistent, accurate and complete, and that it provides global sustainability as an input reviews mitigation plans local risks identified and Country Retail Managers in every country. This In FY19, we performed multiple internal reviews on data an objective picture of the operations of Ingka Group. Data for to top-down risk assessment from risk owners assessed in each market triggers the bottom-up risk assessment process. governance, ways of working and reporting policy. These changes IKEA stores or other units not owned by Ingka Group, but by other are part of our efforts to improve the quality of our data so that franchisees, is not covered within the scope of this report. Any other we can make better-informed business decisions. This affects exclusions are stated in the report. Back to table of contents Our Group business financial on two rows and performance governance Chapter preamble ditas quis dis restiaectat arum estion rem reperia spietur at asperum hicipitatem qui sunt erae. Ratum dem quam voluptio. A message from Juvencio Maeztu  96 Consolidated balance sheets  102 Article Our this section one in year financial FY19   00 98 Ownership in this section Article four structure  and governance  00 104 Article two in this section  Taxes 00 100 Article five Business in this ethics  section  00 106 Consolidated this section Article three inincome  statement  00 101 IKEA Foundation  108 Back to table of contents 96 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE A MESSAGE FROM JUVENCIO MAEZTU Transforming and performing in the new world of retail One year into our transformation to create a new IKEA in three years, we’re performing better than ever across IKEA Retail, Ingka Centres and Ingka Investments. W ith a strong focus on cost performance and major Focus on costs and affordability investments, we’ve made great progress with new city As we grow and reach more people, affordability remains a stores, meeting places, digital innovations and fulfilment key priority, and we’re determined to not pass the cost of our services. We’ve also accelerated our investments in innovative, new transformation on to our customers as higher prices. Instead, we’re companies and renewable energy – all to reach more customers challenging ourselves to find new ways to both transform and in more ways to become even more affordable, accessible and perform. Through better underlying business performance, and by sustainable. working hard to lower our operational costs, we were able to offset As we’re going through the biggest transformation in IKEA the cost of our business transformation and the lower gross profit, history, we’ve seen strong performance across our group. In to a great extent. Our FY19 performance is in line with our plans, and challenging times for many retailers, we continue to grow both we’re proud of all the great efforts to manage operational costs and IKEA Retail sales and total Ingka Group revenue. Customer visits to achieve higher sales at the same time. our IKEA stores remain strong, and I’m very proud of our growth in a fast execution of our big city expansion, we also started to review comparable stores. Online sales growth was close to 50%, with the Strength to invest for generations to come opportunities for real estate investments in prioritised cities. In FY19, we accelerated our venture online share of total IKEA Retail sales now surpassing 10%. To us, Our founder Ingvar Kamprad used to say that you should earn investments in innovative companies that these are signs that our transformation is working. the money before you spend it and not rely on external funding. It’s good business to be a good business can help us move quicker and speed up our With 75 years of strong growth and investments, we’ve built up a IKEA has always been about resourcefulness. We want to be a part of unique ownership structure and financial position that allows us to creating solutions for the challenges our planet is facing, and we’re business transformation in strategic areas like take a long-term approach, thinking in “generations rather than taking bold steps to secure the IKEA ambition to become climate retail services, logistics, digital and circularity. “quarters. The owner of of Ingka Group, Stichting Ingka Foundation, positive by 2030. Helping to meet the challenges our planet is facing can only use its resources in two ways: either by re-investing in the also means huge business opportunities for us. We believe there is a True commitment, great results business of Ingka Group or for charitable purposes by donations via solid business case for sustainability and that financial performance It’s amazing to see the results that the organisation has delivered Stichting IKEA Foundation. and sustainability go hand in hand. It’s the way we grow, stay this year. I’m impressed and proud of the level of entrepreneurship relevant and remain profitable. and commitment of our many colleagues around the world – how As we grow and reach more people, we keep trying harder and continue to try new things. At times we’ll In the short term, we’re meeting the increasing consumer demand fail, and that’s ok. That’s part of how we constantly develop and affordability remains a key priority, for sustainable products and services. And our investments in improve our business to better meet the needs of our customers, for and we’re determined to not pass the wind and solar power reduce our structural operational costs. In many years to come. cost of our transformation on to our the long term, sustainability is about securing our supply chain, Now, we’ll continue to invest and accelerate growth through keeping costs down and protecting the health and well-being of online, stores and centres, supported by a growing fulfilment customers as higher prices. our customers and co-workers. With our size and reach, we have network and with a specific focus on increasing our presence in big a unique opportunity to do good – and to make it affordable for cities. Our transformation keeps creating new opportunities to grow In FY19, we accelerated our venture investments in innovative many people to do good. If we, for example, can make solar panels and reach our sustainability goals. We’ve never been more inspired companies that can help us move quicker and speed up our accessible and affordable to more people than ever before, it’s good to help create a better everyday life for the many people. I’m happy business transformation in strategic areas like retail services, for the climate – but it’s also good for business. We’re also exploring for what we’ve achieved and excited to keep going. logistics, digital and circularity. For example, we made exciting circular business models, like furniture leasing, that can extend Juvencio Maeztu, investments in kitchen installation services, mattress recycling, the life of our products while becoming even more accessible and Chief Financial Officer and Deputy CEO, Ingka Group reverse logistics and robotics furniture, to name a few. To support affordable for our customers at the same time. Back to table of contents 98 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR / 99 FY19 – IKEA Retail sales per region 71 % Our financial year FY19 18 % 11 % In FY191, Ingka Group revenue increased by 5.3% (to EUR 39.1 billion total), and our total IKEA Retail sales increased by 5.0% at constant currency rate. Europe Americas Asia I n 2019, we completed the first year of a three-year transformation and we further strengthened our equity to EUR 42.8 billion (EUR program to build the future IKEA and to become more affordable, 40.8 billion in 2018). Our operating cash flow increased from EUR 2.6 FY19 – Top IKEA Retail accessible and sustainable. We’re adapting the business model, billion (FY18) to EUR 3.9 billion. selling countries the organisation, governance and processes to the challenges of fast-changing consumer behaviour, of digitalisation and automation IKEA Retail trends and of a new competitive business environment. IKEA Retail grew sales by 5.0% at constant currency and by 5.6% when 15 % During the year, we have invested in existing and new markets, including currency effects. The main contributors to our total IKEA 13 % moved into cities and tested new store formats resulting in capital Retail sales growth are Germany, Russia, France, the UK and Poland. expenditures of EUR 2.6 billion in 2019. We have invested in our The fastest-growing countries are Hungary, Russia and Romania. digital development and provided better solutions for our coDuring the year, the positive sales growth from existing and new workers to improve customer meetings. We have developed flexible stores was complemented with strong online sales growth of more 8% and affordable services to shorten delivery times and improved onthan 46%. The share of online in total IKEA Retail sales reached 11% in 7% 6% time delivery for our customers. 2019. Kitchen and Bedroom furniture showed the strongest growth. Summarising 2019, we have performed and transformed at the same time, showing continued growth of total IKEA Retail sales, The positive sales growth from existing and based on growth of store sales complemented with strong online sales growth. new stores was complemented with strong Germany the USA France the UK China online sales growth of more than 46%. Ingka Group financial performance Total Ingka Group revenue for 2019 amounts to EUR 39.1 billion and Customer visits to IKEA stores remained at a strong level of 839 increased by 5.3% compared to 2018. The revenue development was million. In addition, visits to IKEA.com increased by 10% to nearly impacted by a positive 0.5% points currency effect. 2.6 billion. Over the year we’ve opened 7 traditional stores, 11 Ingka Investments warehouse and shopping centre rooftops. With these investments, Our better underlying business performance in all three smaller IKEA stores and IKEA planning studios in major cities like Ingka Investments invests, develops and manages financial and we’re on track to achieve and exceed our goal to produce as much businesses, coupled with a strong focus on lowering our operational London, Moscow, New York and Paris. We also launched a new IKEA other assets to support the business growth of IKEA Retail and energy from renewable sources as we consume by 2020. As part cost, means we have been able to offset the cost of business app, making it easier for customers to search, find and buy IKEA to safeguard the long-term financial strength of Ingka Group. It of the Forestland portfolio, we own 210,000 hectares of forestland transformation and lower gross profit to a great extent. The products, whenever and wherever they choose. consists of six portfolios: Business Development Investments, located in five countries. During 2019, we invested in over 26,000 decrease in operating income from EUR 2,251 million to EUR 2,027 Prioritised City Real Estate, Venture & Growth Capital, Renewable hectares, mostly in the USA and Lithuania. million came mainly from lower gross profit due to increased cost of Ingka Centres Energy, Forestland, and Financial Market Investments. purchased goods and services. Our FY19 performance is in line with Ingka Centres develops and operates 45 experience-oriented In FY19, we acquired 49% of the shares in the kitchen installation Looking forward to 2020 our plans, and we feel very satisfied by the great efforts to manage shopping centres, called meeting places, in 15 countries in Europe, company Traemand, and we also launched the Prioritised City Real In 2020, we project continued growth in all sales channels costs and achieve higher sales at the same time. This performance China and Russia. Ingka Centres is on a journey to create the Estate portfolio during the year and started to review opportunities and through expansion. As we are accelerating our business in FY19, together with a very positive financial net, contributed to a meeting places of tomorrow that will have a positive impact on local for the IKEA Retail expansion in cities. The Venture & Growth Capital transformation, we plan for significant capital expenditures while net profit for Ingka Group of EUR 1.8 billion (FY18: EUR 1.5 billion). communities. Visitation to our meeting places was stable, compared portfolio transactions in 2019 consist of minority shareholding also selling certain assets. In total, we are planning for investments to prior year. Ingka Centres rental income was supported by strong investments in six new companies in the areas of retail, circularity, significantly above last year’s level. Based on available liquidity, A significantly higher result on financial market investments uplift in rents in the Chinese meeting places, higher turnover rents digital development and innovation. significant increase of external financing is not expected in the resulted in a financial net result of EUR 0.5 billion, compared to and decreasing vacancy. coming years. negative EUR 0.1 billion in 2018. Income before income tax amounts Ingka Centres is developing three new meeting places in China: We’re on track to exceed our goal to The principles of Ingka Group to secure long-term sustainable to EUR 2.5 billion (EUR 2.1 billion in 2018). The effective tax rate of Shanghai (planned opening 2023), Changsha (planned opening growth – earning money before we spend it as well as being 27.2% (2018: 30.0%) corresponds to an amount of EUR 0.7 billion 2021) and Xi’an (planned opening 2024). Major investments are done produce as much energy from renewable innovative, cost-conscious and customer focused – remain incurred corporate income taxes. We have a strong balance sheet, in new Ingka Centres developments in China, focusing on mixedsources as we consume by 2020. unchanged. Our business transformation continues to be guided by and we further increased our solvency and liquidity during the year. use development that combines an IKEA store, retailing and other principles of having the right speed and conscious risk taking while Total assets amount to EUR 54.9 billion (EUR 52.4 billion in 2018), components like offices, apartments, hotels, etc. Within the Renewable Energy portfolio, our ownership and safeguarding our business and having a culture of performance and commitments include 534 wind turbines in 14 countries and 2 solar accountability. Above all and always, we are guided and inspired by energy farms with 715,000 solar panels under construction in the our culture and values. 1 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2019. USA. In addition, there are 920,000 solar modules on our store, Back to table of contents 100 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR / 101 Consolidated income statement 1 September–31 August (in millions of euros) Taxes 2019 2018 Revenue 39,065 37,093 * Cost of sales and services 26,634 24,947 * We’re strongly committed to managing our operations in a responsible way and to making a positive contribution to the societies in which we operate. Gross profit 12,431 12,146 W 6.9 e want to create long-term value through growth, a great Operating expenses 10,787 10,212 * customer experience and a positive impact on people and the planet. The taxes we pay are an important part of our wider economic and social impact. Ingka Group pays taxes in EUR billion Other income 383 317 accordance with laws and regulations, wherever we are present, as a in corporate income tax and other Operating income 2,027 2,251 retailer or in any other role. taxes over the last 5 years In FY19, corporate income tax amounted to EUR 682 million Total financial income and expense 483 -138 globally (EUR 634 million in FY18), which equals an effective corporate tax rate of 27.2% (30.0% in FY18). In FY19, our total Effective corporate tax rate (ETR) Income before minority interests and taxes 2,510 2,113 tax bill, including other taxes and duties such as property FY15–FY19 taxes, environmental taxes and customs duties, amounted to Tax 682 634 approximately EUR 1,140 million. 30.0 % Income before minority interests 1,828 1,479 27.2 % The taxes we pay are an important part 24.9 % 21.6 % Minority interests 11 11 of our wider economic and social impact. 18.9 % Net income 1,817 1,468 Over the past five years (FY15–FY19), corporate income tax and other taxes and duties amounted to approximately EUR 6,888 * These comparative numbers are reclassified for comparability purposes. million. In addition, we collected substantial tax amounts on behalf The included abbreviated financial information is derived from the consolidated financial statements of Ingka Holding of governments, such as value added tax and employee taxes. B.V. This information is prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. An unqualified auditor’s Over these 5 years, we’ve also created tens of thousands of report dated 18 November­2019 was issued on these financial statements. Ingka Holding’s Annual Report for financial jobs, directly in our stores and warehouses, and indirectly with our year 2019 is available through the Dutch Chamber of Commerce. Ingka Group total revenue includes sales of goods, external suppliers, which in turn generate taxable income. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 service income and rental income. FÄRLÖV 3-seat sofa € 699 Back to table of contents 102 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/OUR FINANCIAL YEAR / 103 Consolidated balance sheet August 31 Assets (in millions of euros) Consolidated balance sheet August 31 Equity & liabilities (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Intangible fixed assets 2,240 2,124 Group equity 42,828 40,822 Tangible fixed assets 24,451 23,565 Provisions 2,275 1,810 Financial fixed assets 1,166 846 Non-current liabilities 529 774 Total fixed assets 27,857 26,535 Total non-current liabilities 2,804 2,584 Inventories 2,273 2,027 Short term loans 2,711 2,727 Receivables 2,165 2,544 Other current liabilities 6,546 6,217 Securities 21,228 19,697 Total current liabilities 9,257 8,944 Cash and short-term deposits 1,366 1,547 Total equity and liabilities 54,889 52,350 Total current assets 27,032 25,815 Total assets 54,889 52,350 FY19 Total equity and liabilities – EUR 54,889 million FY19 Total assets – EUR 54,889 million 78% 1% 4% 5% 12% 45% 6% 4% 4% 41% Group equity Non-current Provisions Short term loans Other current liabilities liabilities Tangible fixed Intangible and Inventories Receivables Cash and short-term assets financial fixed assets deposits and securities INGEFÄRA Plant pot with saucer 12 cm € 2.99 Back to table of contents 104 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE / 105 Ingka Group Board of We operate IKEA stores and other sales channels Supervisory Directors under franchise agreements ► The Supervisory Board of Ingka Holding B.V. is responsible for supervising, monitoring ► Ingka Holding B.V. is one of 12 franchisees, operating IKEA All IKEA franchisees pay a 3% franchise fee to Inter IKEA Systems and advising the work of the Management stores under franchise agreements with Inter IKEA Systems B.V., B.V. The franchise fee gives us, as an IKEA retailer, the right to Board. Based on recommendations from the the owner of the IKEA Concept and worldwide IKEA franchisor. operate stores and other sales channels under the IKEA Concept Management Board, the Supervisory Board Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is based in the Netherlands and part of and IKEA Brand. It grants access to systems, methods and proven approves, among other things, the strategic Inter IKEA Group. Inter IKEA Group and Ingka Group have the solutions as well as staff trainings, manuals and updates of the plan, the main directions and the budget of same founder, as well as a common history and heritage, but are IKEA Concept such as store layouts, fittings and display concepts. Ingka Group. The Supervisory Board is always two separate groups of companies with different management guided by the interests of Ingka Group and to and different owners. ensure the continuity of our business. As per 31 August 2019, the Supervisory Board of Ingka Holding B.V. consists of eight members. From top left to bottom right: Lars-Johan Jarnheimer (Chairman of Ingka Group Supervisory Board, also chairs the Remuneration Committee), Tore Bertilsson (also chairs Stichting IKEA Foundation the Audit Committee), Lone Fønss Schrøder (also member of the Audit Committee), Luisa Delgado (also Charity member of the Remuneration Committee), Ian Worling Ownership structure Stichting Ingka (also member of the TaskRabbit board), Stina Bergfors, Mark Newton-Jones and Jonas Kamprad. ► Ingka Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled Foundation entities) has an ownership structure that ensures Owner of Ingka Group independence and a long-term approach. Ingka Group is Stichting IMAS Foundation owned by a Dutch foundation, Stichting Ingka Foundation, Management of own with a charitable purpose that is achieved by making funds financial assets Ingka Group Board of Managing Directors available to Stichting IKEA Foundation. As its owner, Stichting Ingka Foundation can reinvest funds into Ingka Group. and Ingka Group Management ► The Management Board is the ultimate decision-making body and is responsible for the formal conduct and the strategic, structural and financial approvals as well as critical risks for Ingka Group. Ingka Holding ► Ingka Holding B.V. is the parent company of Ingka Group, centres under different trademarks, always anchored by an IKEA The Ingka Group Management Board has two members: Jesper Group Management focuses on the strategic direction and located in Leiden, the Netherlands. Ingka Group operates three store. Ingka Investments makes purposeful investments to support Brodin, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Juvencio performance of Ingka Group and is the strategic leadership businesses; IKEA Retail, Ingka Centres and Ingka Investments. IKEA the long-term growth of Ingka Group, to secure its financial strength Maeztu, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Executive team for Ingka Group. Group Management takes part in Retail is the core business, where we operate IKEA stores and other and to support its sustainability goals. Officer. Kurt-Jörgen Olsson, General Counsel, is Permanent the decision-making in relation to strategies, business sales channels in 30 countries. Ingka Centres operates shopping Invitee and Corporate Secretary to the Management Board. transformation, leadership and performance. Ingka Group Governance Supervisory Board Committees Group functions Management Board Committees Group Management Councils INGKA CENTRES IKEA RETAIL INGKA INVESTMENTS Centres Board Retail Board Investments Board Centres Management Retail Management Investments Management Ingka Group Management, from left to right: Jesper Brodin, President and CEO, (Chairperson), Laia Andreu Lopez, CEO Assistant Retail Country Boards & Councils (Permanent Invitee & Organiser), Juvencio Maeztu, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy CEO (Deputy Chairperson), Barbara Martin Local Boards & Management Local Boards & Management Retail Country Management Coppola, Group Digital Manager, Gerard Groener, Ingka Centres Manager, Ulrika Biesèrt, Group People & Culture Manager, Krister Mattsson, Ingka Investments Manager, Olivia Ross Wilson, Group Communication Manager, Kurt-Jörgen Olsson, General Counsel, Davide Urani, Strategy, Development & Innovation Manager and Tolga Öncu, Retail Operations Manager Back to table of contents 106 / GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/BUSINESS ETHICS GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GOVERNANCE/BUSINESS ETHICS / 107 Towards data ethics principles Societies are transforming as they become more dataand technologydriven. And this fact creates opportunities for us to do better Business ethics business – opportunities such as being more relevant and offering a more meaningful experience for every individual customer, through data. Our Code of Conduct The way we run our business and interact with each other, our or locations, with sessions held in China, India, Russia and Southeast ► Similarly, data is a key enabler of our customers, visitors, suppliers and the world around us, will always Europe so far. This programme will be rolled out to further countries business and operations, as well as for determine who we are and how the world perceives Ingka Group and functions during FY20. Our Code of Conduct training for all coour employees, who also benefit from the and the IKEA Brand. workers also includes elements on anti-bribery and corruption. innovations and developments it enables. In Ingka Group, we act based on our values, supported by a But being the trustworthy partner that strong IKEA culture and our vision to create a better everyday life We stand together against our customers, co-workers and partners for the many people. Our expectations on co-workers and partners are set-out in our Code of Conduct, Ingka Group Policies and Rules, bribery and corruption. expect, demands ethical standards and a strong commitment – not just to compliance, including policies on Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and Human Rights but to excellence and transparency in the and Equality. Business ethics is also incorporated into our IWAY Investigating misconduct and raising concerns fields of data use, artificial intelligence, and supplier Code of Conduct. We offer clear guidance on how to manage situations of misconduct how new technologies are employed. and undertake regular risk assessments, both nationally and within In today’s digital world, we need to do We updated our Code of Conduct during FY19, to create a more our functions and three business areas (IKEA Retail, Ingka Centres our part to make our customers feel the user-friendly document with more examples of how to apply our and Ingka Investments). We take every case of potential unethical way they do in their home: valued, secure values and resolve common dilemmas that co-workers may come behaviour very seriously. If a policy breach does occur, we investigate and in control. So, we’re committed to full across at work. All co-workers receive training on our Code of and respond quickly and carefully, using our Rule of Investigation to transparency around how we use their data, Conduct, and a new online refresher training will be available from ensure confidentiality, consistency and accountability. We take the and to explaining how sharing it benefits early FY20. same approach when investigating a potential breach of our human them. This means they’ll always be able to resources policies. control their data easily – and that choosing Anti-bribery and corruption and changing their preferences regarding it, Ingka Group is committed to doing business in an honest way, We promote an open culture of trust, fairness and honest is as straightforward as choosing the colour and we have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in any form. communication. If our co-workers have a concern at work, we of their sofa. Corruption is bad for business, could harm our customers and encourage them to raise this with the person involved in the co-workers and would damage our reputation and brand. Anyone first instance, where this is appropriate. When this isn’t possible, This is a first step towards putting people acting on behalf of Ingka Group must not engage in corrupt concerns should be raised with their line manager, local risk first in all our data-driven processes – practices, which includes accepting or offering bribes, kickbacks or manager or human resources representative. If these options are towards respecting human rights, inclusion loans. We support efforts by regulators and enforcement agencies not possible or appropriate, they can report concerns through and diversity, and towards using personal to tackle bribery and corruption. our Trust line. This is free of charge and accessible 24 hours a day, data in a human-centric way that pays To strengthen our approach and promote our zero tolerance enabling co-workers to raise concerns online or by phone, in their particular attention to potentially vulnerable STOCKHOLM 2017 message, we’ve developed our Anti-Bribery and Corruption local language. To ensure confidentiality and anonymity, Trust line groups, such as minorities, women, people Tealight holder/vase 4.99 Framework. This includes internal controls, periodic risk is operated by People Intouch, a third party. Trust line is available in with disabilities, LGBT+, children, and others assessments and due diligence processes, as well as updated all countries where we are present, except for Austria and the USA. at risk of exclusion. € policies and processes covering conflicts of interest, gifts and In Austria, we are in discussion with our social partners on the best We will ensure that our data-driven entertainment, sanction screening and anti-money laundering. way to implement Trust line. In the USA, we provide a similar service decisions always follow our company values, It governs our interactions with co-workers, business partners, called iSpeak. and that we take responsible and ethicallycustomers and public officials. When an issue is raised, it is evaluated by Trust line managers sound decisions around data. To do this to make sure it’s handled appropriately. Where an investigation is as we move forward on our digital journey The Risk & Compliance Committee provides oversight of our required, this is carried out by a designated manager within the and expand the role that data and artificial approach and is chaired by our Chief Financial Officer and Deputy People & Culture or Business Risk & Compliance functions. In FY19, intelligence play in our business, we’ll be CEO who is a member of our Management Board. Trust line received 212 reported concerns. The majority of concerns guided by our Data Ethics Principles, which We have developed an intensive, face-to-face training programme related to potential breaches of our human resources policies and we’re developing across functions and with for co-workers in sensitive roles (such as procurement or real estate) were raised by retail co-workers. our partners in civil society. Back to table of contents 108 / ikea foundation ikea foundation / 109 THE IKEA FOUNDATION One vision, 10 years, a billion euros Ten years ago, the IKEA Foundation set out on its mission to create a better everyday life for the many people. Since then, it has given more than 1 billion euros in grants to organisations across the planet to make this vision a reality. A s the philanthropic arm of Stichting Ingka Foundation, owner of the Ingka Group of companies, the IKEA Foundation (Stichting IKEA Foundation) was set up as a “The IKEA Foundation’s grantmaking is guided by two commitments: helping families living ©David Brazier/IWMI Engaging co-workers completely independent charitable foundation with a very clear in poverty afford a better everyday life and mission – provide a better life for the many people without pursuing profit for IKEA. protecting the planet. Committed to bold climate action The IKEA Foundation goes about this mission by making funds available in the form of a grant to partners and organisations that Per Heggenes, CEO, IKEA Foundation ► Corporations everywhere are increasingly realising the role they can play in fighting coalition’s Take Action campaign, over 1,000 leading companies have committed to bold through IWitness work with communities and people, often in the poorest parts of Focus on systems change climate change. They are recognising that climate action. When companies choose lowthe world. Dedicated programme managers identify and work with The IKEA Foundation supports a number of long-term programmes those who live in poverty are especially carbon ways to manufacture, package and partners to create a brighter future on a liveable planet. and emergency relief efforts around the world. It focuses on vulnerable to resource exploitation, pollution transport goods, it benefits people today and In 2019, the IKEA Foundation provided EUR 194 million1 in grants programmes that create systems change – where youth, women and and extreme weather. increases the chances that children will have ► In 2012, the IWitness programme to organisations working to tackle climate change, increase the use refugees have equal chances to develop skills, find sustainable jobs, The IKEA Foundation supports and better lives tomorrow. was launched to engage IKEA co-workers of renewable energy, support the livelihood of farmers and help start businesses and turn agriculture into a source of growth and provides grants to We Mean Business, In 2018, the IKEA Foundation announced and customers in projects funded by the provide employment and entrepreneurship opportunities to those innovation. Other examples are programmes that power vulnerable a coalition of organisations that advises the extension of their commitment to climateIKEA Foundation. The programme lets who need it most. The IKEA Foundation also invested EUR 10 million communities with renewable energy resources, giving access to companies on ways they can become more related projects, planning to give EUR 700 co-workers from different IKEA countries in better prevention and preparedness of communities in the face of green energy in order to create a sustainable livelihood. Recognising sustainable and responsible. Through the million in total until 2023. visit projects run by partners of the IKEA emergencies and disasters. the urgency of climate action, the IKEA Foundation also supports Foundation, in order to experience how programmes that encourage businesses, financial institutions and these projects help some of the world’s A brighter future for families and the planet governments to drastically reduce carbon emissions. Improving the lives of vulnerable most vulnerable children and families. Then “The IKEA Foundation’s grantmaking is guided by two commitments: “We need to act now and work together to tackle climate change. they share that experience with the many helping families living in poverty afford a better everyday life and When people join together and unleash their creative power, they children has been at the heart of what the IKEA co-workers and customers back home protecting the planet. Together with strong strategic partners, we work to transform global systems to benefit the many rather than can create a brighter future. That’s why we support programmes that promote new collaboration between businesses, civil society, IKEA Foundation does since 2009. to help drive change in their communities. It’s an opportunity to see what’s possible to the few, while protecting the planet for future generations, says Per governments and the many people, concludes Per. do, thanks to the profits generated by their Heggenes, CEO, IKEA Foundation. daily work – which is the reason the IKEA Read more about the work of the IKEA Foundation: www.ikeafoundation.org Better everyday Foundation can make the impact it does. So far, more than 700 co-workers from lives for refugees 37 IKEA countries have had the chance to become advocates for the work carried out ► The IKEA Foundation is committed to by the IKEA Foundation and its partners helping people forced to flee their homes, around the world. and the communities who host them, improve 194 their incomes so they can become more selfreliant. In the area around the Dollo Ado refugee camps in Ethiopia, for example, the IKEA Foundation has worked with UNHCR to build EUR Million canals that irrigate 1,000 hectares of land. Local families and families who fled Somalia granted in 2019 are now farming the land together. Since ► In 2019, the IKEA Foundation granted families are earning a better income, more EUR 194 million. To celebrate its 10th children – especially girls – are staying in anniversary, the IKEA Foundation published school. a report highlighting some of its partners’ The IKEA Foundation believes that refugees achievements over the past decade. must have the means to earn a living so they Read more in the 10th anniversary ©Inga Urbonaviciute can afford a better everyday life and become review at: www.ikeafoundation.org/annual©UNHCR/Diana Diaz 1 Preliminary numbers from 2019 pending final audit part of the communities in which they live. review/2018 Back to table of contents INDICES AND APPENDIX / UN GLOBAL COMPACT / 111 Our compliance with the UN Global Compact We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact reference table shows where the report discusses our policies and progress regarding these principles. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) PRINCIPLES LOCATION IN FY19 REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 1 Respecting human rights, page 83 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human Respecting human rights, page 83 Principle 2 rights abuses. Supporting decent work in our supply chain, page 84 LABOUR DJUNGELSKOG Book Businesses should uphold the freedom of association € 3 .99 Principle 3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective Building strong social relations, page 54 bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and Respecting human rights, page 83 Principle 4 compulsory labour; Supporting decent work in our supply chain, page 84 Respecting and supporting children’s rights, page 83 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Fairer lives for young and migrant workers, page 83 the elimination of discrimination in respect of Going all in on equality, page 52 Principle 6 employment and occupation. IKEA employment standards (IES), page 54 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach Principle 7 Circular and climate positive, page 68 to environmental challenges; Indices and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Healthy and sustainable living, page 62 Principle 8 responsibility; and Circular and climate positive, page 68 appendix encourage the development and diffusion of Healthy and sustainable living, page 62 Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. Circular and climate positive, page 68 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all Principle 10 Business ethics, page 106 Our compliance with the UN Appendix, Circular and its forms, including extortion and bribery. Global Compact  111 climate positive  114 Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Assurance report of the Development Goals  112 independent auditor  118 Back to table of contents 112 / INDICES AND APPENDIX / UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INDICES AND APPENDIX / UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / 113 Our contribution to the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS HOW INGKA GROUP CONTRIBUTES UN Sustainable Development Goals • Making significant investments in renewable electricity generation, pages 39 and 75 Build resilient infrastructure, • Investing in renewable heating and cooling in our buildings, page 75 promote inclusive and • Investigating foods for the future, including plant-based proteins, and trialling lower sustainable industrialisation carbon techniques to grow nutritious fresh produce, pages 66 and 67 and foster innovation We support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their ambition to achieve • Tackling emissions from travel and deliveries, page 78 a better world for all. As a global business, we have a role to play in contributing to achieving the SDGs. Find out how we contribute to each goal in the table below, and where to read more in this report. • Promoting a fair and inclusive society and respecting human rights, pages 83 and 84 Reduce inequality within and • Respecting and supporting children’s rights, page 83 among countries • Supporting fairer lives for young and migrant workers, page 83 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS HOW INGKA GROUP CONTRIBUTES • Supporting refugees to develop skills for employment, pages 37 and 87 • Providing and supporting decent and meaningful work in our business and supply chain, pages 48, 82-85, and 87 • Striving for zero waste and using resources in a circular way, page 79 End poverty in all its • Supporting refugees to develop skills for employment, pages 37 and 87 forms everywhere Make cities and human • Inspiring and enabling customers to live more sustainably, pages 62-63 • Partnering with social enterprises to support those facing poverty and other barriers, page 88 settlements inclusive, safe, • Making residential solar affordable and accessible for the many people, page 32 • Partnering to create positive change in local communities, page 88 resilient and sustainable • Contributing to thriving communities, page 87 • Tackling emissions from travel and deliveries, page 78 • Offering healthier and more sustainable food for customers and co-workers, page 67 End hunger, achieve food security • Investigating foods for the future, including offering more meat-free options, page 67 and improved nutrition and • Trialling lower carbon techniques to grow more nutritious fresh produce, page 66 • Offering and trialling products and services that promote circular promote sustainable agriculture • Minimising food waste in our operations, page 80 Ensure sustainable consumption consumption, pages 33 and 66 and production patterns • Striving for zero waste and using resources in a circular way, page 79 • Responsible sourcing of goods and services that help to run our business, page 81 • Offering products for more healthy and sustainable living, page 62 • Inspiring and enabling healthy and sustainable living, page 63 Ensure healthy lives and promote • Offering healthier food to customers and co-workers, page 67 well-being for all at all ages • Contributing to the IKEA ambition to become circular and climate positive, page 68 • Supporting children’s well-being by promoting the power of play, page 86 • Tracking our climate footprint against our science-based targets, pages 70-71 • Health and well-being in the workplace, page 55 • Understanding the impact of climate change on our business, page 72 Take urgent action to combat • Inspiring customers to make more climate friendly choices through campaigns and other climate change and its impacts customer communication, pages 17 and 63 Ensure inclusive and equitable • Supporting children’s right to play, page 86 • Collaborating with partners to accelerate progress on climate action, pages 70 and 91 quality education and promote life• Supporting refugees to develop skills for employment, pages 37 and 87 • Making residential solar affordable and accessible for the many people, page 32 long learning opportunities for all • Offering our co-workers opportunities for training and development, page 49 Conserve and sustainably use the • Working to phase out single-use plastic from our • Working to ensure gender equality across Ingka Group, page 52 oceans, seas and marine resources Achieve gender equality and IKEA Restaurants, Cafés and Bistros, page 80 • Partnering with social enterprises that employ people – mostly women – and for sustainable development empower all women and girls empower them to develop sustainable incomes, page 88 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Ensure availability and sustainable ecosystems, sustainably manage • Responsible sourcing of goods and services that help to run our business, page 81 • Managing water resources, page 81 management of water and forests, combat desertification, • Investing in responsibly managed forests, page 39 • Inspiring and enabling customers to save water at home, page 63 sanitation for all halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive • Respecting human rights, page 83 Ensure access to affordable, • Making significant investments in wind and solar energy, pages 39 and 75 societies for sustainable reliable, sustainable and • Aiming to become an inclusive and people-centred company and employer, pages 52 and 82 • Making residential solar affordable and accessible for the many people, page 32 development, provide access modern energy for all • Contributing to thriving communities, page 87 to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institu• Ensuring an ethical approach to the way we do business, through our tions at all levels Code of Conduct, page 106 • Being an inclusive employer and investing in our co-workers development, page 48 • Providing and supporting decent and meaningful work, page 82 Promote sustained, inclusive and • Improving standards in our supply chain through IWAY, the IKEA supplier code sustainable economic growth, full Strengthen the means of of conduct, page 84 and productive employment and implementation and revitalise • Partnering with others to extend our impact beyond our own business and taking • Supporting refugees to develop skills for employment, pages 37 and 86 decent work for all the global partnership for a stand on the issues we believe in, pages 53, 60, 86, 88, 89 and 91 • Partnering with social enterprises to create opportunities for people experiencing sustainable development poverty and other barriers, page 88 Back to table of contents 114 / INDICES AND APPENDIX / APPENDIX INDICES AND APPENDIX / APPENDIX / 115 Appendix, Circular and climate positive This appendix contains complete and restated data as described in the section Circular and climate positive, page 68-81. Climate footprint (tonnes CO2e) Location-based/market-based emissions from consumed electricity 1 Restatements and previous years 1 Restatements and previous years 2 FY19 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 SHARE % FY17 FY18 FY19 Scope 1 (Previous years assured) 127,033 134,464 142,098 Consumed electricity (MWh) (Previous years assured) 2,089,644 2,112,256 Scope 2 (Previous years assured) 492,617 488,761 495,006 Consumed electricity (MWh) NEW 1,897,940 1,963,998 1,996,526 Scope 3 (Previous years assured) 22,676,691 23,523,641 23,958,027 Location-based emissions (tonnes CO2e) (Previous years assured) 800,677 813,160 Total (Previous years assured) 23,296,341 24,146,865 24,595,131 Location-based emissions (tonnes CO2e) NEW 800,856 860,930 877,012* Scope 1 NEW 98,879 115,504 124,038 129,233* 0.54% Market-based emissions (tonnes CO2e) (Previous years assured) 453,326 456,051 Scope 2 NEW 414,290 420,130 462,688 474,922* 1.98% Market-based emissions (tonnes CO2e) NEW 420,130 462,688 474,922* Scope 3 NEW 23,494,220 23,202,317 24,118,580 23,430,677 97.49% Reduction due to market-based emission factors (%) (Previous years assured) -43.4 -43.9 Total NEW 24,007,389 23,737,951 24,705,306 24,034,832 Reduction due to market-based emission factors (%) NEW -47.5 -46.3 -45.8 Energy-related greenhouse gas emissions from our buildings (tonnes CO2e) Restatements and previous years 2,3 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19* IKEA Retail 282,062 295,866 342,930 341,085 Distribution Centres 23,482 33,016 36,170 36,614 Ingka Centres (common areas) (Previous years assured) 296,923 281,292 267,067 Ingka Centres (common areas) NEW 206,497 202,365 204,369 219,717 Offices (Previous years assured) 8,272 9,197 10,962 Offices NEW 1,128 2,048 777 3,415 Other units (Wind farms) (Previous years assured) 1,519 2,804 878 Other units (Wind farms) NEW n/a 2,339 2,480 3,324 Total (Previous years assured) 612,258 622,175 658,007 Total NEW 513,169 535,634 586,726 604,155 * Data included in the external assurance scope 1 Carbon footprint FY16-FY18 restated, following improved reporting process for Ingka Centres and update of Scope 3 models (historical data error and review of methodology). 2 Carbon footprint FY16-FY18 restated, following improved reporting approach for Ingka Centres and historical data error correction. * Data included in the external assurance scope 3 Emissions from company cars, onsite vehicles and refrigerants have been excluded for FY16-FY19, and a more consistent reporting approach 1 From FY18, we’re applying IEA 2018 emission factors for carbon emission calculations. In previous years, we used DEFRA 2015 emission factors. will be introduced in FY20. 2 Scope 2 FY16-FY18 restated, following improved reporting approach for Ingka Centres and historical data error correction. Back to table of contents 116 / INDICES AND APPENDIX / APPENDIX INDICES AND APPENDIX / APPENDIX / 117 Total waste produced (tonnes) Detailed scope 3 (indirect) climate footprint across the value chain (tonnes CO2e) Restatements and previous years 1 Restatements and previous years assured 1 Scope 3 data is not externally assured in FY19. FY17 FY18 FY19 Scope 3 GHG Protocol category number and name FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 IKEA Retail 462,564 504,274 475,966 1. Purchased goods and services (Previous years assured) 11,669,035 11,921,564 12,752,967 Distribution Centres 55,641 69,626 68,412 1. Purchased goods and services NEW 11,353,156 11,684,306 12,386,743 12,432,641 Ingka Centres (common areas) 71,902 89,829 2. Capital goods (Previous years assured) 140,940 162,623 140,940 Ingka Centres (common areas) NEW 54,569 91,220 85,040 2. Capital goods NEW 184,306 195,148 260,197 292,722 Offices 151 n/a 3. Fueland energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2) 238,214 237,097 305,213 217,683 Offices NEW n/a n/a 182 4. Upstream transportation and distribution (Previous years assured) 944,086 879,376 957,356 Total 590,107 663,729 4. Upstream transportation and distribution NEW 1,003,741 1,040,075 1,085,839 1,019,830 Total NEW 572,774 665,119 629,600 5. Waste generated in operations 2 42,235 49,007 49,610 71,172 6. Business travel 42,910 39,265 39,001 28,471 Water use by business unit (m3) Restatements and previous years 2 7. Employee commuting 111,915 120,583 123,703 127,807 8. Upstream leased assets FY17 FY18 FY19 9. Downstream transportation and distribution (Previous years assured) 3,563,086 3,615,095 3,754,328 IKEA Retail 5,346,839 6,009,125 5,862,693 9. Downstream transportation and distribution NEW 3,530,611 3,380,716 3,643,317 3,698,881 Distribution Centres 264,567 380,132 270,729 10. Processing of sold products Distribution Centres NEW 270,602 11. Use of sold products (Previous years assured) 4,982,167 5,506,868 5,259,304 Ingka Centres (common areas) 3,577,280 3,812,010 11. Use of sold products NEW 5,896,892 5,376,241 5,152,069 4,492,640 Ingka Centres (common areas) NEW 2,463,212 2,480,484 2,539,254 12. End of life treatment of sold products (Previous years assured) 786,233 803,707 847,873 Offices 42,109 69,029 48,628 12. End of life treatment of sold products NEW 832,423 832,723 829,592 810,570 Total 9,230,796 10,270,296 13. Downstream leased assets (Previous years assured) 155,869 188,456 161,707 Total NEW 8,116,728 8,829,240 8,721,304 13. Downstream leased assets NEW 257,817 247,157 243,296 238,260 14. Franchises 15. Investments Total scope 3 (Previous years assured) 22,676,691 23,523,641 24,392,003 Total scope 3 NEW 23,494,220 23,202,317 24,118,580 23,430,677 1 Carbon footprint FY16-FY18 restated, following improved reporting process for Ingka Centres and update of scope 3 models 1 Waste volume FY17-FY18 restated, following improved reporting process for Ingka Centres. (following historical data errors and review of methodology). 2 Water use FY17-FY18 restated, following improved reporting process for Ingka Centres and correction of historical reporting 2 From FY19, Waste generated in operations includes data from Ingka Centres (common areas) that was not included in FY16-FY18. error for Distribution Centres in FY18. Back to table of contents 118 119 Assurance report of the independent auditor Management is also responsible for such internal control as Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting, including To: the Board and shareholders of Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities of the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting that is free obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. to our review; Our conclusion We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is We have reviewed the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our responsibilities for the review of the • Identifying areas of the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting in the Ingka Group Annual Summary & Sustainability scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting reporting with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced Report FY19 for the year ended 31 August 2019 of Ingka Holding Reporting criteria Our objective is to plan and perform the review in a manner information or material misstatements, whether due to B.V. and its controlled entities (hereafter: ‘Ingka Group’) based in The scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting needs to be read that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance fraud or error. Designing and performing further assurance Leiden, the Netherlands. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited and understood together with the reporting criteria. Ingka Group evidence for our conclusion. procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the level of assurance. is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting responsive to this Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations are aimed to determining the plausibility of information and risk analysis. These procedures included among others: our attention that causes us to believe that the scope 1 and related to reporting. vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the 2 carbon emissions reporting is not prepared, in all material The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the scope a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance information for, carrying out internal control procedures respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting are the Greenhouse Gas obtained in review engagements with a limited level of on, and consolidating the data in the scope 1 and 2 the section ‘About our sustainability reporting’ on page 93. Protocol (published by the World Resources Institute (WRI) assurance is therefore substantially less than the assurance carbon emissions reporting; The scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting is included and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development obtained in audit engagements. Determining the nature and extent of the review in the Circular and Climate Positive section on page 68, the (WBCSD)) and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are procedures for the group components and locations. appendix on page 114 and the explanatory notes on page 93 in explained on page 93 of the Report. considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they For this, the nature, extent and risk profile of these the section ‘About our sustainability reporting’ of the Ingka Group could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of components are decisive. Based thereon we selected Annual Summary & Sustainability Report FY19 (hereafter: the Scope of the review of the group users taken on the basis of the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions the components and locations to visit. The visits to sites Report). The data for the indicators included in the scope of our Ingka Holding B.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. reporting. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent in Germany, Russia and China are aimed at, on a local engagement are marked in these sections with an asterisk (*). The scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting incorporates the of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of level, validating source data and evaluating the design of consolidated information of this group of entities to the extent identified misstatements on our conclusion. internal controls and validation procedures; Basis for our conclusion as specified in the section ‘About our sustainability reporting’ in We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ Obtaining assurance information that the scope 1 and 2 We have performed our review of the scope 1 and 2 carbon the Report. (NVKS, Regulations on quality management systems) and carbon emissions reporting reconciles with underlying emissions reporting in accordance with Dutch law, including Our group review procedures consisted of both review accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control records of Ingka Group; Dutch Standard 3000A ’Assurance-opdrachten anders dan procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level. including documented policies and procedures regarding Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and opdrachten tot controle of beoordeling van historische financiële Our selection of sites in scope of our review procedures is compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards external documentation; informatie (attest-opdrachten)’ (Assurance engagements primarily based on the site’s individual contribution to the and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Performing an analytical review of the data and trends. other than audits or reviews of historical financial information consolidated information. Furthermore, our selection of sites We have exercised professional judgement and have (attestation engagements)) and including Standard 3410 considered relevant reporting risks and geographical spread. maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in • Evaluating the consistency of the scope 1 and 2 carbon ‘Assurance engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’. By performing our review procedures at site level, together accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000A, Standard 3410, emissions reporting with the other information in the Report Our responsibilities under this standard are further described with additional review procedures at corporate level, we have ethical requirements and independence requirements. which is not included in the scope of our review. in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the scope 1 been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance Our review included amongst others, the following and 2 carbon emissions reporting’ of our report. evidence about the group’s scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions procedures: We communicate with Management, among other matters, the We are independent of Ingka Holding B.V. in accordance with reporting to provide a conclusion about the carbon emissions planned scope and timing of the review and significant findings the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants reporting. • Performing an analysis of the external environment and that we identify during our review. bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and Responsibilities of Management for the issues, and the characteristics of Ingka Group; Amstelveen, 28 January 2020 other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting KPMG Sustainability, This includes that we do not perform any activities that could Management of Ingka Group is responsible for the preparation • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance of the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting in accordance their consistent application and related disclosures in the engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the with criteria of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (published by the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting. This includes the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, WRI/WBCSD) and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and Dutch Code of Ethics). explained on page 93 of the Report. the reasonableness of estimates made by management; W.J. Bartels RA, Partner KPMG Advisory N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263682, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member KPMG Advisory N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263682, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. © Ingka Holding B.V. 2020. Some images by courtesy of Inter IKEA Systems B.V.
