T h e G R I S G RO U P c o m m i t m e n t the Global Compact GRIS GROUP, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components, engineered washers and die-cut engineered parts. GRIS GROUP signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS GROUP had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. For this new Communication on Progress, the two companies constituting GRIS GROUP, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE (France) and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH (Germany) are joining forces to make this joint communication about their 2020 actions. GRIS GROUP is part of the process of continuous improvement undertaken for many years, in industrial , quality and management fields, confirmed by the ISO 9001, IATF 16949 and ISO 14001 certifications. GRIS GROUP is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2020. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Céline GRIS CEO GRIS GROUP Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2020 For 2020, the GRIS GROUP chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Progress update from Global Compact participant 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2020  Human rights/Working conditions This year, much of our Communication on Progress is dedicated to the measures taken within the two entities making up the GRIS GROUP (GRIS DÉCOUPAGE and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH) with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, they relate to the sanitary protocol set up, the Business Continuity Plan but also the different Communications sent to our employees and external partners (customers, suppliers, various providers, etc.). As with every year, investments have been made in the workshops of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE and GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH. Some of these investments have been dedicated to improving working conditions and safety. GRIS GROUP gives great importance to the motivation and well-being of its staff. Due to the health crisis, all our events/promotions have been suspended. However, the management of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE did want to pay tribute (remotely) to the employees to be rewarded this year (KAIZEN prizes, diplomas, length-of-service trophies). At GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK, the partnership with a fitness centre was renewed for 2020 but is currently suspended owing to the closure of gyms due to COVID-19. Various human resources and staff training actions have also been launched. Within the framework of the COVID-19 crisis and the decrease in business, a furlough scheme was introduced at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. Moreover, an exceptional Purchasing Power Bonus was paid to all employees in April to compensate for the loss of salary linked to the furlough. Finally, a gender equality and Quality of Life at Work agreement was signed for 3 years at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. No fewer than 76 GRIS GROUP employees received training in 2020. At GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, 43% of staff was trained through the FNE system within the furlough scheme. In addition, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK, before the end of the year, will launch in-house training to make its staff aware of its Code of Conduct and Ethics as well as the fight against corruption.  Environment In 2020, the Quality/Environment monitoring audit 2, according to IATF 16949, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, was successfully completed at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. For the “Environment” part, a grinding waste compactor was also installed this year at the French production site. The transformation of this waste sludge into discs avoids having to send this waste to a landfill site and allows re-use of the cutting fluid extracted during the compacting operation. Finally, an effort has also been made to reduce the number of disposable plastic cups used at water coolers and coffee machines with the distribution of re-usable flasks by management but also the supply of Thermos mugs by the social and economic committee to all staff.  Fight against corruption As part the IATF 16 949 certification process, a “ code of conduct and ethics anti-corruption policy” has been introduced at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE since 2019. GRIS UMFORTECHNIK GmbH has also been working on its own code of conduct which should be ready in 2021. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR COVID-19: Measures taken by GRIS GROUP during this health crisis GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  Introduction of a health protocol To cope with the complicated context caused by COVID-19 in 2020 and to maintain our business in good conditions, health instructions have been drafted and validated by members of the health and safety committee and the social and economic committee. Each update is circulated to all staff. They review all the prevention measures listed in the “National protocol to ensure the health and safety of employees during the COVID-19 epidemic”. These measures include: the introduction of a daily attendance sheet completed by employees certifying that they do not have a temperature and have taken into account our health instructions, compulsory wearing of face masks by administrative staff (except in individual offices) and by workshop staff, restricted access to cafeterias and meeting rooms to respect social distancing, instructions regarding the use of a company vehicle, the development of video-conferencing meetings with tools such as Microsoft Teams and Zoom, the introduction of work from home for all employees whose job allows it, while maintaining social interaction for these employees with their line manager and on-site teams, a flowchart showing how to behave in the event of a suspected case of COVID-19 has also been included in these instructions.  Plan Business Continuity Plan A Business Continuity Plan (Plan de Continuité d’Activité in French) has been drafted and communicated to the Executive Board. This document contains the major action to be taken in the event of a pandemic as well as its follow-up and the organisations to contact. The Business Continuity Plan supports business recovery after a forced shut-down (the case of COVID-19 and the lockdown).  External communications on the company’s situation Following the critical developments of the health context in March 2020 and the questions raised by many of our partners (customers, suppliers, etc.) on our maintained activity and shipments, a letter was sent to inform them of the current situation and maintained activity at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. To protect its employees, but also deal with the successive closure of its customers’ and subcontractors’ plants, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE decided to temporarily close its French plant in Lesménils as of Friday 20 March. In addition, several email exchanges and telephone conversations were had and various communications were circulated to our partners, customers, suppliers and other target groups. In particular, we sent a new letter to our customers, posted information on our website and LinkedIn page and also on our voice mail and absence messages on our inboxes. A press release was also circulated to our main contacts in the regional and trade press.  Internal communication from the executive management Since the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis in France, the company’s executive management has regularly kept its employees informed of the situation in a series of emails: reduced activity, furlough, economic situation, information from the automotive platform, government information, etc.  Internal communication with GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH In order to notify our German subsidiary about the temporary closure of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, Céline Gris, CEO of GRIS GROUP, informed all employees by email. This exchange was also the opportunity to show our support during this crisis period to all our German employees.  Supportive communication: Our employees say THANK YOU 41 GRIS DÉCOUPAGE employees met up (remotely) for Giving Tuesday Now, in response to the unprecedented needs caused by COVID-19, which took place on 5 May. From home or at their workstation, they sent their thanks to front line professionals/ volunteers fighting this epidemic. This communication was shown on our digital media (website and LinkedIn page) but also displayed in the premises of our Lesménils site.  Collective action “Stronger after the crisis” As part of feedback regarding management of the health crisis, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE and 8 other companies in the Region were contacted by Club Metz Technopôle*. This collective action called “Stronger after the crisis!” aims to analyse what companies have experienced in their different sectors after the first lockdown. Management and employees from the different administrative departments (Sales Administration, Logistics, Purchasing, Quality, IT, New projects) but also production and members of the social and economic committee volunteered to be interviewed about their experiences during this period. This feedback, which will continue with workshops moderated by experts, raises issues linked to remote management, social dialogue or the health strategy. The aim was to draw conclusions and communicate them in order to help businesses in the economic recovery phase and to be prepared for any future crises. *Professional network bringing together economic players in the metropole of Metz and of the Grand-Est region. GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH  Measures taken to protect employees and people outside the company The Management of GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH took different measures to protect its employees and any visitors from the very start of the COVID-19 crisis in Germany. The company decided to introduce flexitime for workshop staff to reduce the number of people in the premises at the same time. Face masks were distributed to all employees. Partitions were also installed between each workstation to protect employees working in the same area. Infection protection guidance (obligation to wear a face mask, distancing rules, hand disinfection) was given to all staff and displayed on posters in offices and in the workshop. External visitors to the site have their temperature taken on arrival. They are also asked to fill in a form to track all people present at a given moment in time in the company if a COVID-19 case were to arise. Cleaning of the premises is reinforced. Hand sanitiser is available to staff throughout the company premises so that they may disinfect their hands at all times and whenever required. All employees are also strongly recommended to be vaccinated against seasonal influenza to avoid a flu epidemic adding to the COVID-19 pandemic.  External communications on the company’s situation Like all companies in Germany, Gris UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH has been affected by the effects of the epidemic spread of COVID-19. Automotive manufacturers, in particular, temporarily closed their factories in the spring. For these reasons, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH was forced to take appropriate measures. The company notified all its raw material suppliers by email of the drastic reduction in production as of 19 March 2020 and therefore of the stoppage of material receptions. With the constantly changing situation, suppliers were then informed that it was once more possible to make deliveries to our German production site. Investments in safety and working conditions GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  Reorganisation of raw material stocks In 2020, storage of raw materials was reviewed to secure it better. New racks were therefore set up. These offer the advantage of movable separation posts to adjust the space between packets of reels and make it easier to grasp them with the overhead crane. Furthermore, the width of the aisles was changed so that employees could move more securely through the storage area. Finally, the reels are currently being reorganised according to their diameter.  Marking out of pedestrian aisles in the North building (deburring sector) Pedestrian aisles have been marked out in the North building. These changes make pedestrian traffic safer and improve space-sharing with forklifts in the workshops.  New offices New, more spacious, quieter and better insulated offices were built in 2019/2020. To anticipate the administrative staff’s move to new offices by the end of 2020, the occupational risk assessment document has been reviewed to identify if risks have disappeared or are reduced by the change of premises. This update was presented to the members of the health and safety committee, which did not make any specific comments to make regarding it. Most risks identified in the old offices will be removed or reduced (problem of concentration linked to noise in the offices, glare on screens, lack of space between workstations, discomfort due to poor insulation of the building). GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH  Safety at the workstation: new steel reel unwinder system Since 1980, security standards in the workplace have considerably evolved to the benefit of employees. At GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK, this is particularly the case of reel unwinders in the press sector. Before (image1), there were practically no safety functions to protect operators on the unwinder (no pressure lever, fingers could get caught in the straightening unit or in the rolls of the reel, a major risk of cutting for employees). Moreover, operators could use their hands to move the band towards the straightening unit then from the straightening unit to the machine (high potential risk 1– old unwinder system of accident). Since 2020, a modern state-of-the-art system compliant with all safety and working standards, has been introduced at GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH (image 2). The whole installation is secured by fencing to protect the operator and other people. The system is also monitored by sensors. For improved safety, the whole operation is automatic so that the operator simply needs to pick up the band. In addition, physical effort has been reduced. High safety requirements make safety at work a priority. 2– new unwinder system This installation has considerably improved the health of operators but also helped reduce accidents and potential hazards. This has had a positive impact on productivity and sick leave (reduction of occupational accidents). Motivation and team cohesion GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  Tribute paid to an employee for successfully completing his training To officially congratulate one of her employees, Céline Gris, Chair of GRIS GROUP, awarded him, in the presence of the members of the Executive Board, the diploma he obtained for the validation of his CQPM* as an Industrialisation Technician and Improvement of Processes as well as validation of Lean Six Sigma certification (Operational Excellence). Nb: this event was held in February, before the arrival of the pandemic in France *Certificat de Qualification Paritaire de la Métallurgie  Unique awarding of KAIZEN prizes and Trophies for 25 years’ length of service A rather different heads up to our KAIZEN prizewinners and employees with 25 years of service took place this year due to the cancellation of our personnel meeting due to Covid19.The Management, which holds this event to heart, nevertheless wanted to award these different prizes in an original way, complying with the health protocol set up. The KAIZEN prizewinners therefore received their awards at their workstation from our health and safety officer. Two members of the Executive Board were honoured by our Chair, Céline Gris, for their 25 years’ length of service in the company.  Social commitment: GRIS DÉCOUPAGE’s local undertakings As part of the definition of its CSR policy and to supplement its help provided over the years to various associations and charities, our company has supported Metz Mécènes Solidaires since 2018. A local collective patronage scheme, Metz Mécènes Solidaires is a territorial fund that supports innovative, effective and sustainable projects of general interest in 3 areas:solidarity, sustainable development and digital. The priorities of MMS are: fighting food waste, reducing digital inequality, guaranteeing a healthy, quality diet for all, learning to repair in order to consume less, fighting fragilities, developing new solidarities, etc. In addition to its financial support to this organisation, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is working with its employees at this, the end of 2020, to help the most deprived. Metz Mécènes Solidaires is launching a collection operation for the homeless with Secours Catholique Meuse Moselle and Fondation Abbé Pierre Grand Est. The concept: fill boxes with sweet little surprises and gifts to support and comfort the homeless. As we are putting the finishing touches to our Communication on Progress, we have not yet received full feedback on this operation as it is still in progress. GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH  Partnership with a fitness centre To promote health and fitness to its employees, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH has signed a partnership with the Herscheid fitness centre. With the company’s financial support, 15 employees regularly attend the centre to work out. Another aim of this action is to reinforce team spirit. Unfortunately, it has been put on standby due to the closure of fitness centres by COVID-19. Update on Human Resources GRIS DÉCOUPAGE  Introduction of a furlough scheme Due to reduced activity caused by the COVID-19 crisis and to avoid having to lay off a number of its employees, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE introduced a furlough scheme for its 154 employees from 18 March, effective through to 31 December 2020.  Exceptional Purchasing Power Bonus An Exceptional Purchasing Power Bonus (Prime Exceptionnelle de Pouvoir d’Achat in French) agreement was decided on 16 March 2020. Through it, all employees received a bonus of €400 to improve their purchasing power during the crisis. In May, an incentive bonus to promote economic recovery after the first lockdown was given to all volunteer employees from 9 April to 30 April 2020.  Agreement on gender equality and quality of life at work In December 2020, an agreement on gender equality and quality of life at work was signed for 3 years. Its aim is to allow employees to balance professional and personal life in the best way possible. This agreement takes into account the following issues: agreement on working from home, principle of gender equality (reducing wage differences), access to training and jobs, diversity of employment and work conditions, Improved quality of life at work: right to disconnect, work from home, awareness of well-being, prevention of psycho-social risks, harassment, discrimination, flexible work conditions for employees linked to the disability of their child. Employee training: GRIS DÉCOUPAGE At GRIS DECOUPAGE, 62 employees, or 43% of the staff, (up 25.5% on 2019) received training in 2020 worth €90,075. With the Covid-19 crisis and the introduction of the furlough scheme, the training plan has been optimised. The aim being to allow employees to take advantage of this period to take time out (which they do not usually have under normal circumstances) for training. Most training run this year covers management, production, communication, finance and logistics but also safety. Employees also took other training courses such as programmes relating to personal development or desktop tools. Breakdown of training Breakdown by Breakdown by theme by gender socio-professional category GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH In 2020, at GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH, the amount of training granted to 14 employees totalled €9,972. A quarter of this training was related to company management (accounting and commercial trainings). Part of these costs is also dedicated to training apprentices but also on the “Safety” theme (first aid training, site safety, safety officer). Breakdown of training Breakdown by Breakdown by theme by gender socio-professional category  Employee awareness of the company Quality policy By the end of 2020, GRIS UMFORMECHNIK GmbH employees will be invited by the site’s Quality Manager to take part in an awareness session on company policy on the following points: the Code of Conduct and Ethics, the anti-corruption and non-discrimination policy The aim of this action is to ensure that each employee is informed and may intervene if they are a victim or witness of a hazardous situation. Considering that displaying these different subjects at the company Communication point was not enough for everyone’s proper understanding, this training is designed to make staff aware and give them the possibility of asking questions if not everything is understood. Moreover, as some employees do not speak fluent German, it is easier to explain these different subjects verbally rather than displaying information in posters. At the end of the session, a recap document will be handed over to staff then attendees will be questioned to check that they have properly understood the content. Due to the COVID-19 crisis, this training will be staggered over several different sessions in order to comply with the health protocol (especially in terms of the number of attendees and distancing in the room).  Welcome of new apprentices Before the health crisis, a certain number of apprentices, for various reasons, had lost their position. To give them the possibility of continuing their training, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH decided to welcome many of them in its establishment. 2. ENVIRONMENT GRIS DÉCOUPAGE Quality/Environment monitoring audit 2 In the very specific Coronavirus context, the Quality/Environment monitoring audit 2, according to IATF 16949, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, was performed at the initially scheduled dates (from 8 to 11/06/20). The results obtained are good as only 2 minor non-compliances were identified in Quality and none in Environment. Grinding waste compactor A grinding waste compactor was set up in August 2020. After a few tweaks, this machine is now operational. Since it has been installed, the compactor has produced more than 17 tonnes of discs which have been sold to steel plants for re-use. The transformation of this waste sludge into discs avoids having to send this waste to a landfill site and allows re-use of the cutting fluid extracted during the compacting operation. “Responsible kit” to distribute water and hot drinks Management has observed that too many disposable cups were used between the water cooler and the coffee machine in the company. That is why, to extend its efforts for the environment and as part of its CSR approach, it decided to provide its employees with a flask to be refilled at the water cooler. At the same time, the social and economic committee gave all employees a Thermos mug to replace coffee machine cups. Everyone now has a “responsible kit” to drink water and hot drinks in the company. To make everyone aware of the importance of using these containers, an information note was enclosed with the flasks. 3. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION GRIS DÉCOUPAGE & GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK GmbH Code of conduct and ethics anti-corruption policy As part of the GRIS DÉCOUPAGE IATF 16 949 certification process, a code of conduct and ethics anti-corruption policy has been implemented since 2019. This document, distributed to all employees, is also available in a documentary area on our network. GRIS UMFORTECHNIK GmbH has also been working on its own code of conduct which should be ready in 2021. Through this communication, GRIS GROUP intends to formally declare its values and its business practices, that it now wishes to extend to its suppliers and subcontractors. Every manager and every employee must be exemplary in all situations and is responsible for behaving in accordance with this Responsibility Policy.
