Responsible investment Government Pension Fund Global 2019 No. 06 b Our mission is to safeguard and build financial 1 wealth for future generations 2019 at a glance 11,518 shareholder meetings 97.8 percent of shareholder 3,412 company voted at ­meetings voted at meetings 625 written communication 79.4 environmental investments. 35.8 return on environmental with companies Billion kroner ­investments in the equity portfolio. Percent 3,941 assessments of 107,569 equity portfolio carbon 5 new exclusions company reporting footprint. Thousand ­tonnes CO2 equivalents 42 new divestments 16 consultation 2 academic projects responses How we work Establishing principles We aim to contribute to well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. We recognise a set of international standards and contribute to their further development. Our expectation documents and voting guidelines make clear our priorities as a long-term investor. Exercising ownership We aim to promote long-term value creation at the companies in our portfolio. We use our voting rights to support effective boards. In our dialogue with companies, we discuss the board’s responsibilities and shareholders’ rights. We work with companies to increase the information available to the market and encourage good business practices. 3 Investing sustainably We aim to identify long-term investment opportunities and reduce our exposure to unacceptable risks. We assess how companies impact on the environment and society. We see opportunities in companies that enable more environmentally friendly economic activity. There are also companies we choose not to invest in for ethical or sustainability reasons. Contents 1 2 4 Introduction Establishing principles Preface __________________________________ 6 Standards ______________________________ 20 Overview ________________________________10 Expectations ___________________________ 26 Research _______________________________ 28 3 4 Exercising Investing 5 ownership sustainably Voting __________________________________ 32 Risk assessments _______________________ 72 Dialogue _______________________________ 42 Investments ____________________________ 80 Follow-up ______________________________ 54 Divestments ____________________________ 86 6 Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Preface A great responsibility When Norges Bank Investment Management was formed in 1998, nobody anticipated that, 20 years on, we would be the single largest owner in the world’s stock markets. We were early to develop a principles-based sustainability, and we have followed up those approach to ownership. One key element of this with weak reporting. From 2012, we have has been to have clear expectations of invested in dedicated environmental mandates companies and their boards. As far back as and divested from companies with business 2008 and 2009, we published expectations on models that we consider unsustainable. From children’s rights, climate change and water 2014, we have published an annual report on our management. These have been followed by responsible investment. We have worked for expectations on human rights (2016), tax almost a decade on common standards for transparency (2017), anti-corruption (2018) and reporting relevant, comparable and reliable data ocean sustainability (2018). We expect the on sustainability. We are delighted to see other board to take overall responsibility and address investors now also paying attention to this area. environmental and social challenges. The board 7 should integrate material risks into its strategy, Being the world’s largest shareholder on behalf risk management and reporting. Ten years on, of the Norwegian people brings great we are seeing more and more investors and responsibility. We have clear principles and companies recognise a broader range of risks expectations as an owner, and we have built up and responsibilities. expertise and an awareness in our organisation of our ownership role. I step down now as CEO We aim to contribute to well-functioning in complete confidence that the fund will markets and good governance of companies. continue to play a leading role among global Since 2015, we have set out our views on good investors as a long-term and responsible corporate governance. We support the investor. companies we invest in. We use our vote to support effective boards and responsible business practices. We aim to be open about how we use our ownership rights, and we publish all our voting no later than the day after a shareholder meeting. Going forward, we plan to publish all our voting intentions Oslo, 3 March 2020 ahead of shareholder meetings. As a long-term and global investor, we have an interest in a sustainable global economy. In 2011, Yngve Slyngstad we began to measure how companies report on CEO, Norges Bank Investment Management 8 Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Preface Better corporate disclosure 2019 was a busy year where we raised a range of key issues for long-term value creation with companies in the portfolio. All in all, we engaged with 1,826 companies. Availability of relevant information is crucial for our work. As a shareholder in over 9,000 companies, we supply chain and encourage them to improve must be strategic and focused in our dialogue. their reporting. We also contacted five large For this, we need good corporate disclosure. plastics and packaging producers to learn what Our starting point is public expectations on steps they are taking to reduce negative sustainability and governance. We analyse effects on the environment. We followed up on companies’ risks and opportunities, assess their additional business aspects of climate change in strategies, identify challenges and engage in 2019, for example by talking to cement dialogue. To support this work, it is important to producers about the transition to a low-carbon have data on companies’ sustainability economy and sustainable water use. performance, and we expanded our evaluation of reporting during the year. We encourage We take our responsibility as a shareholder in companies to improve disclosure, and we have over 9,000 companies seriously. We work to 9 seen progress over time. In 2019, we contacted a ensure that the companies have the good further 134 companies with poor reporting. corporate governance and effective boards. Each year, we use our voting rights to elect thousands We also work with standard setters in our efforts of boards. We have established a Corporate to promote good disclosure. We benefit from Governance Advisory Board where three international standards based on financial external members with extensive board materiality. Standard setters in many markets experience help us assess company boards and turned the spotlight onto sustainability reporting prioritise our work. in 2019. We stressed the need for better and more consistent information on companies’ Our work on responsible investment over the exposures, activities and performance metrics in past 15 years has given us a strong foundation. areas such as climate risk, human rights and tax. The awareness of responsible investment We also joined the Sustainability Accounting among companies, investors and society alike is Standards Board (SASB) Investor Advisory Group increasing. As we head into a new decade, we to collaborate with other leading investors on are working more systematically, we are the further standards. prioritising more effectively, and we are asking better questions. As part of our continued focus on deforestation, we brought together a group of banks, Oslo, 3 March 2020 investment managers and food producers in Singapore to discuss business risks. We entered into dialogue with nine companies that sell cocoa or produce chocolate to discuss Carine Smith Ihenacho deforestation risks and children’s rights in their Chief Corporate ­Governance Officer 10 The fund’s future value is dependent on the value created by the about 9,000 companies we invest in. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Overview Overview Our mission is to safeguard and build financial wealth for future generations. In delivering a long-term return, we are dependent on sustainable growth, well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. The objective for the management of the fund is The fund invests globally. It has holdings in the highest possible return with moderate risk. companies in 71 countries to spread risk and Responsible investment supports this objective capture global growth. We benefit from open in two ways. First, we seek to improve the longmarkets that enable global value creation and term economic performance of our investments. efficient allocation of capital from investors to Second, we seek to reduce the financial risks companies. We have a clear interest in regulation associated with the environmental and social that results in better information on markets and practices of companies in our portfolio. We do companies, and makes markets more stable. this by considering environmental, social and Markets that are less prone to shocks and 11 governance issues that could have an impact on facilitate sustainable development are important the fund’s performance over time. We integrate for the fund’s long-term return. these issues into our work on standards, our active ownership and our investing. This report The fund invests widely. It has holdings in more looks at responsible management of the fund’s than 9,000 companies spanning every sector. equity and fixed-income investments. However, the fund’s percentage holdings in Responsible investment in real estate is covered these companies are small, so we must delegate by other publications. most decisions to their boards and management. This requires boards to discharge Our motivation their duties effectively, and management to have The fund invests for the long term. It exists to the right incentives. Good corporate governance help finance the Norwegian welfare state for protects our rights as an investor and breeds future generations and must therefore have a confidence in the market. The future value of the long investment horizon. We have an interest in fund is dependent on the value created by the companies being able to meet the needs of the companies we invest in. present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Sustainable development can make the companies in our portfolio more robust and contribute to the fund’s long-term return. 12 Internationally agreed standards on corporate governance promote long-term value-creation. We recognise a set of international ­principles and standards from the UN and the OECD. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Overview Establishing principles Standards promote consistency across markets We see good corporate governance as a premise and can raise the bar for all companies. In for responsible business practices. We expect Section 2 of the report, we explain how we boards to understand the broader environmental participate in the development of international and social consequences of their companies’ standards and use them, together with our own activities, take them into account when setting expectations and positions, to guide companies. strategy, analyse risks and report on outcomes. Our goal is well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. It is important in our work to understand global trends that could affect the fund’s ability to As a global fund, we benefit from internationally create long-term financial value. Economic agreed standards that apply to all companies activity in one industry can impose substantial and promote long-term value creation and indirect costs on other industries and on society 13 responsible business practices. We recognise a as a whole. We support and initiate research set of international principles and standards projects in order to understand better such from the UN and the OECD which provide a relationships. framework for our work with companies and other stakeholders. We contribute actively to the development of international standards. We participate in consultations and engage regularly with international organisations, regulators and other standard setters, industry partners and academics. We draw on our experience as an investor in 71 countries and our knowledge of the companies in our portfolio. Within this framework of internationally agreed standards, we set our own priorities as an investor on the basis of our mandate. We formulate expectations of companies, positions on governance issues and guidelines for our voting. These public documents communicate our priorities to the wider market and ensure predictability for the companies we invest in. 14 The fund has a small stake in more than 9,000 companies around the globe. We manage our responsibilities and exercise our rights as an owner to promote long-term value creation at companies. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Overview Exercising ownership The fund has a small stake in more than 9,000 We work with companies, investors and other companies around the globe. In Section 3 of the stakeholders to advance standards, increase the report, we explain how we manage our information available to the market, and responsibilities and exercise our rights as an promote responsible practices. This is owner. Our aim is to promote long-term value particularly important when many companies in creation at companies. an industry or value chain face the same challenges. We assess the risks and Voting is the most important tool we have for opportunities associated with environmental active ownership. Our default is to support the and social issues. We have clear expectations for companies we invest in. We expect the board to how companies should address climate change, set company strategy, supervise management water management, children’s rights, human and be accountable to shareholders. If we rights, tax transparency, anti-corruption and 15 believe that the board is not acting in our longocean sustainability. We assess how companies term interests as an investor, we may vote report on their work in these areas. We monitor against it. To protect our interests consistently selected companies to understand better how across all companies, our voting is principlesthey are dealing with relevant risks, and based. We are open about the guidelines that encourage them to improve their reporting. guide our voting so that companies can understand how we will vote. Our voting is published the day after each shareholder meeting on our website: www.nbim.no. In our dialogue with companies, we raise environmental, social and governance issues that may be relevant to the fund’s long-term return. We prioritise our largest investments, where we know the companies best. We have a regular dialogue with these nearly 1,000 companies, which make up around two-thirds of the total value of the equity portfolio. In addition, we publish expectations and positions which are relevant to all of the companies in our portfolio. 16 Environmental, social and governance issues can have an impact on companies’ performance. We work to identify, measure and manage risks and opportunities that could affect the fund’s ability to generate a long-term return. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Overview Investing sustainably Investing sustainably is an integral part of the exclusion of companies from the fund. The fund fund’s investment strategy. In Section 4 of the must not be invested in companies that produce report, we explain how environmental and social certain types of weapon, base their operations data can inform our investment decisions. Our on coal, or produce tobacco. Nor may the fund aim is to identify long-term investment be invested in companies whose conduct opportunities and reduce the fund’s exposure to contributes to violations of fundamental ethical unacceptable risks. norms. The Ministry of Finance has set up an independent Council on Ethics to make ethical We encourage companies to move from words assessments of companies. Finally, the fund to numbers, so that we can better understand itself may decide to divest from companies that financial risks and opportunities. To perform impose substantial costs on other companies such analyses , we need relevant, comparable and on society as a whole, and so will probably 17 and reliable data on environmental, social and not be profitable in the longer term. governance topics. We analyse carbon emissions from companies in our portfolio and various climate scenarios for the fund. We see opportunities in investing in companies with solutions that enable more environmentally friendly economic activity. These investments can have positive effects on other companies and society in general. These positive externalities can include reduced emissions, lower energy costs and more efficient use of resources. Companies producing these technologies may profit in turn from changes in demand and regulation. We invest in such companies partly through dedicated environmental mandates. There are some industries and companies in which the fund should not be invested. By not investing in such companies, we reduce the fund’s exposure to unacceptable risks. The Ministry of Finance has issued ethically motivated guidelines for observation and 18 Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global 2 Establishing principles Standards ______________________________ 20 Expectations ___________________________ 26 19 Research _______________________________ 28 Standards We benefit from international The OECD Guidelines for Multinational standards that promote long-term Enterprises are a set of government-endorsed recommendations for companies that operate value creation. We contribute to internationally. The aim is to support sustainable the development of such standards development through responsible business and publish expectations of the conduct, trade and investment. The voluntary companies we invest in. nature of the guidelines means that compliance cannot be legally enforced, but there is an expectation that companies will apply the guidelines to the extent that they are applicable Standards provide greater consistency across to their business. Companies themselves are to markets and can raise the bar for all companies. assess how this can best be achieved. We aim to contribute to well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. We UN participate in the development of international The UN Global Compact is a broad coalition standards by engaging with regulators and other between the UN and the business world that 20 standard setters. promotes corporate social responsibility. The initiative is based on ten general principles that International standards require companies to respect human rights, We recognise a set of key international uphold the freedom of association and the right standards. Our management mandate from the to collective bargaining, and eliminate all forms Ministry of Finance specifies three standards of forced labour, child labour and discrimination from the OECD and the UN as the framework for in the workplace. The Global Compact also responsible investment management at Norges encourages companies to support the UN Bank. These standards from the OECD and the Sustainable Development Goals. We are a UN are voluntary, non-statutory participant in the Global Compact and take part recommendations. They express expectations in the UN’s work on developing international for companies’ handling of environmental, social standards that are relevant and important to the and governance issues. We expect the fund. companies in our portfolio to strive to observe these standards. Norges Bank refers to two further UN standards in its own principles for responsible investment. OECD The UN Guiding Principles on Business and The G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Human Rights were unanimously endorsed by Governance mainly concern effective the UN Human Rights Council in 2011. The governance, such as shareholder rights, principles encompass three pillars outlining roles equitable treatment of shareholders, disclosure and responsibilities for states and businesses and transparency, and the responsibilities of the with regard to human rights: the state duty to board. The principles form a natural starting protect human rights, the corporate point for our own positions and our interaction responsibility to respect human rights, and with companies. access to remedy for victims of adverse impacts. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles The UN Conference on Trade and Development European Commission and the International (UNCTAD) has also published Principles on Accounting Standards Board as well as national Promoting Responsible Sovereign Lending and standard setters in France, Germany, Japan, Borrowing. These aim to prevent unsustainable Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland debt and stress the responsibilities of both and the UK. lender and borrower. The principles are advisory and are still under development. We support initiatives to strengthen financial markets in developing countries. In 2019, we As a long-term and global investor, the fund has renewed our backing for an initiative to develop an inherent interest in sustainable development. guidelines for corporate governance in Africa. Joint solutions to global challenges such as The initiative is linked to the African Union and is climate change and environmental degradation supported by the World Bank, among others. may increase the resilience of our portfolio. The Through our support for the African Corporate UN Sustainable Development Goals provide a Governance Network, we aim to help open up common framework for addressing key global more African nations to international challenges. National authorities are responsible investment. for achieving the goals by 2030. How they 21 choose to mobilise knowledge, technology and We responded to 16 public consultations relating capital to realise the goals will impact on the to responsible investment during the year. These global economy and the fund’s long-term concerned issues that we consider important, performance. such as common standards for sustainability reporting, appropriate management incentives, Development of international standards and tax transparency. We publish all of our We contribute actively to the development of consultation responses on our website: www. relevant international standards. We participate nbim.no. in consultations and engage regularly with international organisations and regulators in our Common standards for sustainability most important markets. We can draw on our reporting experience as an investor in 71 countries and an As an investor, we are reliant on relevant, timely in-depth knowledge of the companies in our and accurate information on the companies we portfolio. invest in. We want to understand the environmental and social issues that could affect When we meet standard setters, we are companies’ long-term profitability, and how they interested to learn about their strategic priorities address relevant risks and opportunities. We are and specific initiatives to promote wellincreasingly seeing companies reporting on functioning markets and good corporate environmental and social issues, but this governance. At the same time, we can information is still difficult to compare across communicate our own priorities, which in 2019 companies and markets. included board composition, good voting processes, executive remuneration, We stand to benefit from internationally agreed sustainability reporting and tax transparency. reporting standards based on financial During the course of the year, we had meetings materiality, and we support the development of with the OECD, the UN Global Compact, the such standards at both national and The independent Japan Responsible Supply international level. In 2019, we joined the Chains Committee presented guidelines during Sustainability Accounting Standards Board the year for companies’ work on human rights (SASB) Investor Advisory Group to work with and asked for input from investors and other other leading investors and managers on stakeholders. We considered these guidelines to providing input for the further development of be valuable and comprehensive, and our SASB’s standards. response called on the committee also to encourage companies to report publicly on their We responded to three consultations from the work on human rights. European Commission on sustainability reporting during the year. We expressed our It is problematic both for companies and for support for its work to ensure increased, more investors that there are so many different precise and more comparable disclosure of nonstandards for sustainability reporting. This financial data. We particularly welcomed the reporting often requires considerable resources European Commission’s work on climate from companies, and different approaches and reporting and the proposal that companies definitions mean that investors cannot yet use it 22 should publish quantitative metrics in addition in the same way as accounting data. We to qualitative information. We also expressed therefore lent our support to the Corporate support for the European Commission’s Reporting Dialogue, which is working on technical expert group working on the taxonomy mapping and comparing different frameworks for sustainable activities, noting that the with a particular emphasis on climate disclosure. taxonomy should build on existing standards Our consultation response called for where appropriate and be flexible enough to consolidation of reporting standards. accommodate technological advances. Several stock exchanges have introduced The US Securities and Exchange Commission requirements or guidelines for the disclosure of (SEC) published proposals in 2019 to expand the sustainability data in recent years. In 2019, the requirements for corporate disclosure on Hong Kong exchange proposed extending its intangible assets, with a particular focus on requirements for reporting on environmental, human capital. Our consultation response social and governance topics. The proposals expressed support for the principles-based include making more of this reporting approach proposed, and reiterated our compulsory, requiring companies to disclose expectation that companies should report on all their process for selecting material issues, and material risks and opportunities. introducing more quantitative metrics. Our consultation response welcomed the proposed Responding to a consultation by Canada’s Expert changes to improve reporting. Panel on Sustainable Finance, we reaffirmed our support for the framework developed by the Appropriate management incentives Task Force on Climate-related Financial A number of major markets require shareholders Disclosures (TCFD). We urged the panel also to to vote on executive remuneration and other take account of other relevant issues, beyond management incentives, whether in the form of climate change, such as water risks, a forward-looking remuneration plan or a deforestation and anti-corruption. retrospective remuneration report. In Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles discussions with standard-setters responsible payments to governments. We supported the for national corporate governance codes, we proposal for companies to publish their policies have emphasised the importance of a long time on paying taxes. We noted that, as an investor, horizon for share-based incentives, we would benefit from knowing how much tax simplification of incentive structures, and companies have paid in different countries. transparent reporting on remuneration. We Global standards for this reporting are under reiterated this position in a response to the development, and it is important that proposed Australian Prudential Regulation Authority’s new standards do not place an unnecessary consultation on the proposed simplification of burden on companies. incentive structures. Country-by-country reporting was also a topic in As part of its work on standardising companies’ our response to a public consultation on remuneration reporting, the European corporate tax disclosure from the Financial Commission requested feedback on draft Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the body guidelines. We expressed our support for that issues accounting standards for US companies being required to publish a clear and companies. We expressed support for proposed understandable remuneration report, and changes to the disclosure of income taxes in 23 stressed that shareholders are reliant on greater companies’ annual reports. We noted that, as an transparency on pay in order to understand how investor, we would benefit from companies CEOs are incentivised. reporting how much tax they pay in each country in which they operate. We stressed that Tax transparency this type of reporting should form part of a As a long-term investor, we stand to benefit company’s annual report. We also called for from corporate tax practices that are more stringent requirements for corporate appropriate, well-considered and transparent. disclosure on the effects of any changes in tax Several standard setters are currently discussing legislation. how companies should report publicly on the taxes they pay. In 2019, the OECD worked on proposals for the taxation of the digital economy. It noted, for example, that value is often now created in jurisdictions other than those where companies have a physical presence or activities. As a global investor, we emphasised the need for solutions that bring predictability and a level playing field for companies across markets. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards are among the most widely used globally for reporting sustainability information. GRI presented proposals during the year for a new standard on public disclosure of taxes and Submissions Recipient Topic Submitted Canada Expert Panel on Sustainable Interim report on sustainable finance 14/01/2019 Finance European Commission ­Technical Report on climate-related disclosures 01/02/2019 Expert Group on Sustainable Finance OECD Tax challenges of the digitalisation of the economy 06/03/2019 European Commission ­Technical Report on the taxonomy 08/03/2019 Expert Group on Sustainable Finance Global Sustainability Standards Tax and Payments to Governments 11/03/2019 24 Board European Commission Update of the guidelines on non-financial reporting 20/03/2019 European Commission Guidelines on the presentation of the remuneration 21/03/2019 report PRI Association Reporting Framework Review 30/04/2019 Corporate Reporting Dialogue Better Alignment Project 30/04/2019 Financial Accounting Standards Update on Income Taxes Disclosure Framework 28/05/2019 Board Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Review of the ESG Reporting Guide and Related Listing 18/07/2019 Limited Rules European Financial Reporting European Lab Future Projects Agenda 30/09/2019 ­Advisory Group PRI Association Signatory survey 11/10/2019 Australian Prudential Regulation Remuneration requirements 16/10/2019 Authority Japan Responsible Supply Chains Guidelines for responsible business conduct and supply 16/10/2019 Committee chains Securities and Exchange Modernisation of company reporting (regulation S-K) 22/10/2019 ­Commission Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles Membership of organisations and initiatives Topic Organisation Description Corporate African Corporate Governance Network Network of director membership organi­governance (ACGN) sations Asian Corporate Governance Association Membership organisation for investors and (ACGA) companies Council of Institutional Investors (CII) Association of investors European Corporate Governance Institute Academia-practitioner research network (ECGI) Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Academia-practitioner research network Governance International Corporate Governance International association of investors 25 Network (ICGN) Sustainability CDP Climate; CDP Forest; CDP Water Environmental reporting initiatives Institutional Investor Group on Climate Investor initiative (Europe) Change (IIGCC) Norsif Norwegian sustainable investment forum Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative International organisation for transparency (EITI) in extractive industries Task Force on Climate-related Financial International principles Disclosure (TCFD) Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) International principles Sustainability Accounting Standards Board International standard for sustainability (SASB) reporting Transition Pathway Initiative Investor initiative on climate risk United Nations Environment Programme Multi-stakeholder initiative for sustainable Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) finance UN Global Compact International principles UN Global Compact Action Platform on Multi-stakeholder initiative for ocean Sustainable Ocean Business sustainability Expectations We publish expectations of companies and guidelines for our voting. These documents communicate our priorities to the market and provide predictability around our long-term ownership. We see good corporate governance as a premise documents to reflect developments in principles for responsible business practices. We expect and practices. We also analysed how companies boards to understand the broader environmental report on their work on the challenges presented and social consequences of business operations in the expectation documents. and manage relevant risks and opportunities. Our expectations are primarily directed at We believe that some global trends are company boards. The board should take overall particularly relevant to us as a long-term responsibility for company strategy and address 26 investor. Economic activity can impose challenges presented by environmental and substantial indirect costs on other companies social issues. The board should integrate and on society as a whole. The inability of material risks in these areas into strategy, risk companies to internalise such costs is a market management and reporting. To analyse the risks failure. In many cases, negative externalities are and opportunities associated with our not yet priced into companies’ market value. investments, we need high-quality, standardised Typical examples include climate change and company reporting. environmental degradation. Child labour and other forms of social exploitation violate Our expectations of companies are based on the fundamental human rights. Tax evasion and UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines corruption also have negative impacts on society for Multinational Enterprises. They also largely and the economy. coincide with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Expectation documents Since 2008, we have published clear Updated expectations expectations of the companies we invest in. In the document on anti-corruption, we clarified Their purpose is to set out how we expect that companies exposed to the risk of money companies to address relevant global challenges laundering should have internal policies and in their business. procedures to mitigate such risk. This applies particularly to those in the financial sector. We have issued expectation documents on Money laundering may involve money derived children’s rights (2008), climate change (2009), from corruption and thus facilitate it. water management (2010), human rights (2016), tax transparency (2017), anti-corruption (2018) In the document on children’s rights, we and ocean sustainability (2018). All were emphasised our expectation that companies updated in 2019. Their structure was simplified, should conduct ongoing due diligence, as set and minor changes were made to some of the out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles Human Rights. We also expanded our Corporate Governance Advisory Board expectations for responsible marketing and use Åse Aulie Michelet, Harald Norvik and Svein of goods and services, and highlighted the Rennemo continued as external members of the importance of decent work opportunities for fund’s Corporate Governance Advisory Board in young workers, parents and carers for children’s 2019. The board meets six times a year and rights. serves as an advisory forum for the Chief Corporate Governance Officer, who chairs it. The In the document on water management, we three external members bring extensive board highlighted the importance of detailed reporting and management experience from listed on tailings dams. The failure of dams can cause companies both in Norway and abroad. major loss of human life and serious environmental harm. We therefore ask The board is to advise on corporate governance companies that own or operate these facilities strategy, exercise of ownership rights, and to provide key attributes and processes for principles and practices relevant to listed maintenance and monitoring. companies in the equity portfolio. As a longterm investor, we are particularly keen to Position papers strengthen our understanding of the board’s role 27 To support our ownership activities, we publish and working processes in order to target our position papers that clarify our stance on ownership work more effectively. selected corporate governance issues. Our point of departure is that the board is responsible for The advisory board held six meetings in 2019 setting company strategy, supervising and considered matters such as the fund’s management’s execution of that strategy, and stance on board composition and shareholder providing accountability to shareholders. Each resolutions on environmental and social issues. year, we vote on more than 45,000 board It also discussed the fund’s public voting candidates. We consider what is needed for guidelines with a particular emphasis on boards to be effective, and how we can effective boards and protection of shareholders. contribute to better governance. Corporate Governance Advisory Board. From left: Svein Rennemo, Carine Smith Ihenacho, Harald Norvik, Åse Aulie Michelet Research We are keen to develop our understanding of good corporate governance and sustainability, and how they impact on financial risks and returns. We fund research and collaborate with academic institutions to inform our investment strategy. We prioritise global trends and topics that may weather events influenced participants’ be particularly important for long-term financial perception of global climate risk. One study value creation. Academic research can help found that real estate prices were not greatly improve market standards, provide access to affected by projections showing rising sea levels. important data and strengthen our own Another found that different views on climate responsible investment priorities. change had an impact on real estate prices: homes exposed to extreme weather sold for Academic research projects more in areas where inhabitants rejected the 28 Norges Bank’s Norwegian Finance Initiative (NFI) notion of anthropogenic climate change than in is one channel for supporting academic areas where inhabitants did not. research. We also initiate and fund research projects outside the NFI. Taken together, these findings suggest that capital markets do not fully price climate risk. Financial climate risk Our goal has been to promote more research on As a long-term investor, we want to understand climate and finance. The project was completed how global trends could impact on the fund’s on schedule in December 2019, and the Review risk and ability to generate returns in the longer of Financial Studies is preparing a special issue term. As part of this, we are keen to know how on the research. climate change could affect the companies we are invested in, and the portfolio as a whole. Another key question is how climate change affects the pricing of assets and how Key questions are whether capital markets price environmental risks can be managed in an climate risk and whether market participants investment portfolio. To bring greater clarity on make rational assumptions about climate effects. this, we extended a research project led by Since 2017, the NFI has been supporting a Nobel laureate Robert Engle at New York research project led by professor Harrison Hong University Stern Volatility and Risk Institute by at Columbia University. A total of 27 researchers two years. During this period, the project will have participated in two academic conferences build on previous research on hedging portfolios and produced 12 research papers on climate risk. against climate change and calculating the longterm discount rate for climate-friendly The project has produced new insights investments. Among other things, the project suggesting that market participants do not will explore how private investors adjust their always make rational assumptions about the portfolios when they perceive changes in effects of climate change. Two of the studies climate risk, and how social media networks found that personal experience of extreme shape climate risk expectations. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles Effective ownership We also hosted an academic seminar in Oslo on As a shareholder in more than 9,000 companies, the concept of joint ownership with professor we want to understand how active ownership Katherine Lewellen from Dartmouth University can support our financial objective. With funding and professor Alex Edmans from the London from the NFI, researchers under professor Julian Business School. The debate concerned whether Franks at the London Business School looked at competition in product markets is undermined the extent, organisation and value of ownership by competing companies having some of the activities at Standard Life Investments. same asset managers as shareholders. The researchers found that its portfolio We supported a seminar at the London Business managers secured an informational advantage School on the allocation of decision-making by systematically monitoring companies and rights at companies. The point of departure was meeting them regularly. This edge was exploited a research project on shareholder approval of in investment decisions and contributed to equity issuances led by professor Clifford excess returns. The research also gives the Holderness at Boston College. public an unusually detailed insight into the interaction between portfolio management and 29 active ownership at an investment firm. The project was completed in line with the revised schedule in June 2019. Research conferences Norges Bank organises the annual Norwegian Financial Research Conference, which had companies’ purpose as its theme in 2019. The conference formed part of the ongoing debate on the interests of shareholders and expectations of companies from a broader set of stakeholders. Professor Colin Mayer from the University of Oxford argued that companies need a purpose beyond profitability in order to motivate employees, attract younger customer groups and secure legitimacy in a broader sense. Professor Luigi Zingales from the University of Chicago argued that shareholders’ interests vary: for some long-term investors, it might be rational for companies to internalise indirect costs that would otherwise be borne by society. 30 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global 3 Exercising ownership Voting __________________________________ 32 Dialogue _______________________________ 42 Follow-up ______________________________ 54 Voting We voted at 11,518 shareholder shareholders to be afforded the opportunity to meetings in 2019. Voting is one of approve fundamental changes at the company, to be given full, accurate and timely information, the most important tools we have as and to be treated equitably in decisions on a shareholder for safeguarding the capital structure. A vote against the board sends fund’s assets. a clear signal to the company and the market. Voting principles We own a small share of more than 9,000 We aim to be consistent and predictable in our companies. As a minority shareholder, we are voting at companies’ shareholder meetings. one of many contributors of equity capital to a company. For stock companies to function Consistency means that the voting decisions we effectively, most decision-making power is take can be explained by our principles. When delegated to the board. Shareholders have the we apply our principles, we take account of a right to choose who sits on the board and act in company’s circumstances and best practices in their best interest. Shareholders also have the the local market. It does not mean that we vote 32 right to approve fundamental changes at the the same way every year or on every issue and at company that could affect their investments. every company. Our default when voting is to support the board. Predictability means that companies can We take part in the election of the board, which understand why we vote the way we do. Our in turn is entrusted with running the company. voting guidelines are anchored in the G20/OECD As an investor in thousands of companies, we Principles of Corporate Governance and are rely on the boards to ensure that they are well publicly available on our website: www.nbim.no. run. In addition, sound legal frameworks and We also create predictability by being open well-functioning markets play an important role about how we have voted. Our voting decisions in ensuring that investors can have confidence in are published on our website the day after the the boards. shareholder meeting. We will nevertheless vote against the board if we Voting process consider that it is not able to function effectively Given the high number of shareholder meetings, or if our rights as shareholder are not adequately we are dependent on a reliable voting process. protected. This might also lead us to vote in We strive constantly to improve this process. favour of shareholder resolutions that are not supported by the board. In addition to voting, Shareholder meetings we also use dialogue to communicate our We aim to vote at all shareholder meetings at expectations to companies. companies in our portfolio. The global securities market ensures that capital is allocated We expect board members to act independently efficiently across national borders, but and without conflicts of interest, to have an shareholders’ voting rights are still subject to appropriate balance of competences and local regimes. Furthermore, voting is often backgrounds to operate effectively , and to be manual, with little use of digital solutions to accountable for their decisions. We also expect make the process more efficient. For our votes Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership to reach each shareholder meeting and be can measure trends in corporate governance and counted, we rely on a number of intermediaries, market practices over time. making the process slow and uncertain. In the vast majority of markets, we do not receive any In some cases, the guidelines are less relevant confirmation that our votes have been received. due to the nature of the resolution. We identify We are working with regulators and service such cases, analyse them individually and vote providers to improve the voting process and according to our principled position on good ensure that our votes are registered. corporate governance. Executive remuneration, mergers and acquisitions, and shareholder We voted at 97.8 percent of shareholder resolutions on sustainability are examples of meetings in 2019, which is in line with previous resolutions where we must often exercise years. When we do not vote at a shareholder judgement in the application of our principles. meeting, this is generally because voting would lead to share blocking, thereby restricting our Where our portfolio managers have an in-depth ability to trade, or because other rules make it knowledge of the company, we use this in the difficult to exercise our voting rights. Of the voting process. Information from portfolio resolutions we voted on in 2019, 97.8 percent managers helps us apply our principles more 33 were proposed by the companies and 2.2 accurately at the individual company. Portfolio percent by shareholders. managers participated in voting decisions at 627 companies in 2019. These companies included Voting by proxy our largest investments and together made up Most companies permit shareholders to vote at around 50 percent of the equity portfolio’s shareholder meetings without attending in market value. Portfolio managers can also use person. This system enables us to vote at their ongoing dialogue with companies to back companies all around the world. up our voting. We use an online platform where an external Voting intentions agent brings together all necessary information Shareholders can communicate their support or about upcoming shareholder meetings. The opposition by announcing publicly ahead of the platform includes all of the resolutions to be meeting how they intend to vote. We published voted on, the board’s position on these our voting intentions at three companies in resolutions, and the relevant deadlines. 2019. Consideration of resolutions We expressed our support for a shareholder The majority of the resolutions we are to vote on resolution requiring all directors at Kellogg Co to fall within the scope of our published voting be elected annually. For the board to be guidelines. Extensive data on companies and accountable for its actions, shareholders must detailed guidelines put us in a position to be able to participate in regular director automate most voting decisions. This is elections, ideally every year. We urged Grupo necessary in order to handle a vast number of Mexico SAB de CV to publish the names of its resolutions in a short period with reasonable board candidates. As a shareholder, we need to resources. Automation also means that we can know who the candidates are so that we can ensure a high degree of consistency and that we assess their suitability and the board’s 34 The future value of the fund is dependent on the value created by the companies we invest in. Voting is the most important tool we have for active ownership. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership composition. Finally, we expressed our support The board and its committees must be for a shareholder resolution on reducing water sufficiently independent of management and pollution at Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. The resolution large shareholders, and have no other conflicts called for reporting that is in line with our of interest. We have observed a gradual increase expectation document on water management. in independent board members in a number of markets, including Germany and Japan. A lack of Our aim in publishing our intentions is to be independence on the board or its committees even more transparent about our voting was the main reason for us to vote against decisions and communicate our principled candidates, accounting for 1,116 votes against position to the wider market. the board in 2019. Voting at shareholder meetings The chairperson plays a key role in a company. In Once we have decided how we wish to vote, we our position paper, we call for a clear separation use the digital platform to send instructions to of roles and responsibilities between chairperson our agent, which then forwards them to the and CEO. This is necessary for the board to shareholder meeting. supervise management. Combination of the role of chairperson and CEO was the second most 35 Voting in 2019 important reason for voting against candidates, We voted on 116,777 resolutions at 11,518 contributing 659 votes against the board in 2019. shareholder meetings in 2019. We voted in line Combined roles are particularly common in the with the board’s recommendation in 94.8 US but have decreased from 44 percent of percent of cases and at 70.9 17 Oppdatert: percent of(BEN) Jan 2020 meetings. companies in the Russell 3000 index in 2012 to This was on a par with our voting in 2018. 34 percent in 2019. Effective boards Chart 1 Share of votes against management by topic. Percent Chart 1 Share of votes against management by topic. Director elections account for nearly half of the Percent resolutions we vote on. For us as an investor in more than 9,000 companies, these are the most 16 16 important votes we cast. We expect the board to 14 14 set strategy, supervise management and act in 12 12 shareholders’ best interests. 10 10 We voted in line with the board’s 8 8 recommendation in 94.1 percent of director 6 6 elections, compared with 94.6 percent in 2018 and 92.5 percent in 2017. In markets where 4 4 companies publish the results of shareholder 2 2 meetings, we observed that the board’s own candidate attracted an average of 95.6 percent 0 0 of the vote in 2019, almost unchanged from 95.8 percent in 2018. Table 1 Voting at shareholder meetings. Per region 2019 2018 Shareholder Shareholder Region ­meetings Percent ­meetings Percent Africa 304 47.4 298 50.7 Asia 5,117 99.3 5,256 99.1 Europe 2,543 98.3 2,519 98.4 Latin America 915 98.1 529 96.6 Middle East 272 97.8 268 95.9 North America 2,244 99.9 2,281 100.0 Oceania 388 99.2 402 99.5 Total 11,783 97.8 11,553 97.7 36 Table 2 Votes against board recommendations among the fund’s top 50 holdings in 2019 Portfolio Resolutions Company rank Country voted against Subject of resolution(s) Apple Inc 1 USA 1 Proxy Access Alphabet Inc 3 USA 8 Remuneration, overboarding, enhanced reporting, shareholder rights Nestlé SA 4 Switzerland 2 Overboarding Amazon.com, Inc 5 USA 4 Overboarding, combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder rights, enhanced reporting Roche Holding AG 6 Switzerland 1 Shareholder protection Facebook Inc 9 USA 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder protection, enhanced reporting Novartis AG 10 Switzerland 1 Shareholder protection Samsung Electronics Co 13 South Korea 2 Board accountability Ltd Johnson & Johnson 14 USA 2 Remuneration, combined CEO/Chairperson Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Table 2 continued Votes against board recommendations among the fund’s top 50 holdings in 2019 Portfolio Resolutions Company rank Country voted against Subject of resolution(s) Tencent Holdings Ltd 15 China 1 Remuneration JPMorgan Chase & Co 16 USA 3 Remuneration, combined CEO/Chairperson, enhanced reporting Bank of America Corp 18 USA 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson The Procter & Gamble Co 19 USA 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson Exxon Mobil Corp 24 USA 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder protection, enhanced reporting Intel Corp 27 USA 2 Remuneration, shareholder protection Linde PLC 28 Ireland 1 Overboarding LVMH Moët Hennessy 30 France 6 Shareholder protection Louis Vuitton SE 37 AT&T Inc 31 USA 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson Verizon Communications 34 USA 3 Combined CEO/Chairperson, enhanced Inc reporting Mastercard Inc 35 USA 1 Overboarding Chevron Corp 40 USA 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder protection, overboarding The Walt Disney Co 41 USA 3 Combined CEO/Chairperson, remuneration, enhanced reporting The Home Depot Inc 42 USA 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder protection, enhanced reporting Merck & Co Inc 43 USA 3 Combined CEO/Chairperson, overboarding Bayer AG 46 Germany 2 Board accountability Pfizer Inc 48 USA 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson, enhanced reporting Cisco Systems Inc 50 USA 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson 38 As a minority shareholder, we are one of many contributors of equity capital to a company. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership In our position paper on the time commitment plans should be long-term and include a of board members, we argue that they should be substantial equity component with a lengthy well prepared for meetings and participate lock-in period. Remuneration plans should also actively in discussions. This requires time and be easy to understand and clear about how availability, which is why there will always be a much the CEO is paid each year. limit to how many board roles one person can handle. Directors having excessive We voted on 4,645 resolutions on CEO commitments or not attending enough remuneration in 2019. We voted against 9.5 meetings led to us voting against 593 board percent of them, compared with 11.3 percent in candidates in 2019. 2018 and 12.2 percent in 2017. The decrease can be explained by a number of countries We also vote against individual directors to hold introducing voting on executive remuneration them to account for the board’s conduct. This and by only a small proportion of these resulted in 327 votes against the board in 2019. resolutions being controversial. Altogether, we For example, we voted against members of voted on 12,198 resolutions on the remuneration remuneration committees where there was a of directors, executives and other employees. history of problematic executive remuneration, 39 members of board committees where We noted growing shareholder interest in shareholders did not have the right to propose executive remuneration in 2019. In markets binding resolutions, and members of audit where shareholders get to vote on executive committees where the external auditor found pay, these resolutions attracted an average of problems with the annual financial statements. 90.2 percent support, down from 90.6 percent in In all of these cases, our conclusion was that the 2018. More markets, especially in Europe, have board had not acted in shareholders’ interests. given shareholders greater opportunities to vote on executive remuneration, and because Appropriate management incentives shareholders have become more critical of Remuneration plays an important role in complex pay packages and unpredictable attracting talented executives and motivating payouts. them to do their best for the company. The board is responsible for recruiting the CEO and Protection of shareholders deciding on appropriate incentives. “Say on pay” Protection of shareholder rights is a fundamental arrangements give shareholders in some requirement at listed companies. Shareholders countries a right or a duty to consider executive must have the right to approve fundamental pay and express their views by voting. In some changes that could affect their investments. We markets, such as the UK, France and Switzerland, expect shareholders to receive accurate, relevant shareholders vote on both a forward-looking and timely information, new share issuances to remuneration plan and a retrospective treat all shareholders equitably, and strategic remuneration report. transactions to contribute to value creation. We voted on 44,682 resolutions concerning In our position paper, we argue that shareholder rights in 2019. We voted against the remuneration should provide an incentive for the board’s recommendation in 4.4 percent of these CEO to create long-term value for the company. cases, compared with 4.6 percent in 2018 and We support the principle that remuneration 5.2 percent in 2017. We also voted against 248 amendments of cases amounted to 13.5 percent of the total, companies’ governing documents where we compared with 10.4 percent in 2018. considered the changes not to be in shareholders’ interests. In some cases, we voted Shareholder resolutions against the resolution because we did not have Resolutions submitted by shareholders made up enough information to assess it. These cases 2.2 percent of the resolutions we voted on in amounted to 6.8 percent of the total in 2019, 2019. Corporate governance matters accounted compared with 7.8 percent in 2018. for 89.6 percent of these, and sustainability issues for the remaining 10.4 percent. To ensure good reporting, most markets require a company’s annual report to be approved by an Governance resolutions external auditor appointed by shareholders. We Our point of departure is that shareholders have voted against the appointment of an auditor in delegated most decisions to the board. For this 233 cases in 2019. These cases amounted to 3.9 delegation to function effectively, boards must percent of the total, compared with 3.8 percent be accountable for their decisions and ensure in 2018. The main reason for voting against an that shareholders’ interests are protected. We 40 auditor was that we had not received sufficient support shareholder resolutions on governance information to assess the auditor’s matters where they are well-founded and independence. aligned with our principles. We voted in favour of 59.7 percent of governance-related shareholder New shares should be offered proportionally to resolutions in the US in 2019, compared with existing shareholders. Where a board proposes 65.9 percent in 2018. waiving shareholders’ pre-emption rights, this needs to be in the common interest of the Shareholders propose resolutions on company and its shareholders. We voted against governance matters to protect their rights. the board on 472 share issuances in 2019, mainly These resolutions typically concern the right to where the board proposed an authorisation to call extraordinary meetings, the right to propose issue more shares without pre-emption rights competing board candidates, or calls for an than we find acceptable. In total, these cases independent chairperson. In many markets, it is amounted to 5.3 percent of the total, compared an established practice for shareholders to with 6.2 percent in 2018. submit their own board candidates, but it is more common in the US for shareholders to put We expect strategic transactions such as forward these resolutions as a way of expressing mergers and acquisitions to contribute to value their views on the company’s governance creation and treat all shareholders equitably. We structure. believe that the market for corporate control helps discipline management. Anti-takeover We have seen a continued decline in the number measures are generally not in shareholders’ of governance-related shareholder resolutions in interest, and the introduction of such measures the US. We voted on 290 in 2019, compared to should at the very least be subject to 302 in 2018. Shareholder support for these shareholder approval. We voted against 92 resolutions has increased over time, with 20.7 resolutions on anti-takeover in 2019. These percent gaining majority support in 2019. We backed 76.7 percent of these. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership We supported 54 shareholder resolutions calling We voted on 265 shareholder resolutions on for an independent chairperson, including at sustainability issues in 2019, compared with 228 some of our largest holdings, such as Amazon. in 2018. Most were tabled in the US. According com Inc, Facebook Inc and AT&T Inc. None to consulting firm ISS, 46 percent were received enough votes to be passed. Our voting withdrawn ahead of the shareholder meeting, in favour of an independent chairperson at such often after the company amended its practices companies reflects our principled position that in line with the proposer’s wishes. the roles of chairperson and CEO should not be combined. We have seen continued growth in support for shareholder resolutions on environmental and We also supported all five shareholder social issues. According to ISS, support for these resolutions calling for proxy access – the right resolutions averaged 26.8 percent in 2019, for shareholders to propose competing board compared with 25.1 percent in 2018 and 21.9 candidates. This is in line with our long-term percent in 2017. This is a continuation of a trend support for proxy access in the US. In 2019, since 2012, when support averaged 16.3 majorities at Owens & Minor Inc, Old Republic percent. This may indicate that the quality of the International Corp and Masimo Corp voted to resolutions has increased, and that they are 41 grant shareholders proxy access. generally seen as more relevant. Sustainability resolutions However, only a small proportion of these We have seen an increase in the number of resolutions gain majority support. In 2019, only shareholder resolutions addressing 12 such resolutions were passed at companies in environmental and social issues. Some of these which the fund had holdings. These included resolutions have helped improve risk climate-related resolutions at Standard Bank management at companies, while others have Group Ltd and FirstRand Ltd, and resolutions diverted attention away from core business. The calling for greater transparency on lobbying and proponents of these resolutions may be longpolitically motivated donations at Mallinckrodt term investors such as the fund, or activists with PLC and Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp, special interests. as well as a resolution at Microchip Technology Inc asking management to report on the risk of Our point of departure is again that shareholders human rights violations in the company’s have delegated most decisions to the board, operations and value chain. We voted in favour which is to act in their interests. We support of all 12. well-founded resolutions that are aligned with our own priorities, especially in areas covered by Recent years have seen increased interest in our expectation documents. The resolutions how Internet companies manages user should not seek to micromanage the company. information. We voted in favour of resolutions at Any additional reporting requirements should be Twitter Inc, Alphabet Inc and Facebook Inc to materially relevant and not place an undue increase transparency on how they are burden on the company. We voted in favour of addressing these challenges. These resolutions 39.9 percent of sustainability-related shareholder won 37.4, 6.8 and 5.7 percent of the vote resolutions in 2019, compared with 52.0 percent respectively. in 2018 and 27.0 per cent in 2017. Dialogue As a long-term investor, we engage in regular dialogue with our largest companies. The aim is to promote good corporate governance and responsible business practices. We engaged in dialogue with 1,826 companies in communication with 625 companies in the 2019, or 18.2 percent of the companies in our portfolio in 2019. portfolio. These are often the largest companies in which we are invested, and together they Thematic dialogues made up 71.2 percent of the value of the equity In our dialogue with companies, we prioritise a portfolio. This dialogue consisted of either number of strategic themes that we follow up meetings or written communication. Climate over a number of years. In 2019, we focused on change, board composition and executive effective boards, executive remuneration, remuneration were the responsible investment climate and environment, human rights, anti42 topics that we raised most often with corruption and tax. companies. We held a total of 3,412 meetings with 1,474 Table 3 Company meetings by sector in 2019. companies during the year. The size of our FTSE Russell classification investments gives us access to board members, senior management and specialists at Share of equity companies. We are interested in understanding Company portfolio Sector meetings Percent how companies are governed and how they address key sustainability issues. Basic materials 268 3.2 Consumer 469 9.0 We generally meet company representatives at goods one of our four offices outside Norway. We also Consumer 260 6.5 visit some companies, especially where we are services interested in learning more about their operations. In addition, we participate in investor Financials 973 16.2 conferences where we can meet companies. Health care 303 8.0 Besides meetings, we communicate with Industrials 431 6.5 companies in writing. We distribute our Oil and gas 110 3.1 expectation documents and position papers to Technology 277 10.5 selected companies to inform them of our priorities. We also respond to enquiries from Telecommuni159 2.3 companies requesting further information, cations especially on our position on board elections Utilities 162 2.1 and executive pay. We had written Total 3,412 67.5 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Corporate governance context of the company’s strategy, risk We held 1,390 meetings with 760 companies in management and capital allocation. 2019 where we discussed the role and composition of the board and appropriate Effective boards management incentives. We also had written We engage in regular dialogue with the boards communication with 304 companies presenting of the largest companies in our portfolio. We our priorities and answering questions about our held a total of 167 meetings with boards in 2019. ownership activities. Our three priorities were board independence, members’ time commitment and the nomination It is important in our dialogue with companies to process. have an in-depth understanding of their operations and their industry. Dialogue on Listed companies are best served by a clear corporate governance is an integral part of the separation of roles and responsibilities between fund’s management. Our portfolio managers board and management. In our position paper, attended 97.1 percent of these meetings in 2019. we argue that the board must exercise objective This helps us view the board’s efforts in the judgement on corporate affairs and take 43 Table 4 Company meetings in 2019 Share of equity portfolio Category Topic Number of meetings Percent Environment Climate change 422 18.7 Water management 108 5.3 Ocean sustainability 42 3.0 Other environmental topics 410 17.0 Social issues Human rights 99 9.8 Children's rights 56 4.1 Tax and transparency 75 8.4 Anti-corruption 77 6.7 Other social topics 380 23.3 Governance Effective boards 402 28.1 Remuneration 260 20.0 Protection of shareholders 116 8.2 Other governance topics 1,078 38.9 decisions independently of management. We Boliden AB, Electrolux AB, Essity AB, Volvo therefore consider it most appropriate for the Group AB and Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCA). Our board to be chaired by a person who is not also priority is a good nomination process to identify the CEO. In some markets, including the US and candidates who can meet the company’s needs, France, combining the two roles is common. rather than proposing specific individuals. When we meet companies with a combined Appropriate management incentives chairperson and CEO, we explain our Executive remuneration is subject to some form expectations in terms of independence and of shareholder approval in many advanced separation of roles. We also wrote to five markets and in 2019 was once again the most companies during the year where we voted common topic that companies raised with us. against the election of the chairperson. Dell We discussed executive pay with 206 companies Technologies Inc, Danone SA and General Mills and responded to 138 written enquiries Inc are examples of companies in our portfolio concerning our expectations in this area at where the CEO also chairs the board. In our specific companies. letters, we explained that the decision to vote 44 against the chairperson reflected not a lack of Our dialogue with companies attached confidence, but our principled view on board importance to the board’s forward-looking plans independence. for executive pay. In our position paper, we argue that remuneration plans should be simple and In our position paper on board members’ time transparent, and should consist primarily of cash commitment, we argue that there is a limit to and shares to be held for a period of five to ten how many board roles one person can handle. years even where the executive leaves the Virtually all directors aim to do their best for a company voluntarily by resigning or retiring. We company, but some overcommit and so do not believe that shareholding is important in have enough time to prepare or participate motivating long-term value creation and actively in board discussions. encouraging the CEO to take account of shareholders’ interests. In 2019, we engaged with the largest companies in our portfolio where we had voted against At our meetings with companies, we board candidates due to excessive encouraged them to prioritise long-term commitments. We observed that some directors shareholding, straightforward structures and the at Saab AB, Alphabet Inc and Nestlé SA had greatest possible transparency. We also engaged numerous roles at other listed companies. We with a number of companies that faced strong raised board members’ time commitment at shareholder opposition to their remuneration meetings with these companies and sent letters plans in 2018. to the chair of the nomination committee at 63 companies to explain our voting. Sustainability Our long-term investment horizon means that In Sweden, we participate in the nomination we have an interest in sustainable development. process for the boards of some of our largest We take our public expectation documents as investments. In 2019, we continued our work on our point of departure and raise issues that are the nomination committees at Alfa Laval AB, relevant to companies’ value creation. We held Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 983 meetings with 568 companies on gases in the period 2007-2016. We urged the environmental and social issues in 2019. We also banks to strengthen their due diligence and to had written communication with 429 companies report on climate and deforestation risks. During on our priorities. the year, we convened a group of banks, investment managers and food producers in Climate and environment Singapore to discuss deforestation risks. CIMB We continued our dialogue with banks in Latin Group Holdings Bhd and RHB Bank Bhd are America and Southeast Asia on their policies for examples of banks that have taken further lending to companies that contribute to account of the environment in their strategies deforestation. According to the latest report and policies. We also continued our dialogue from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate with companies that buy and sell soya and meat Change (IPCC) on climate change and land, in Brazil. emissions from agriculture, forestry and land use changes accounted for around 23 percent of We contacted 12 cement producers to total anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse understand how they are approaching the 45 In 2019 we urged banks to strengthen their due diligence and to report on climate and deforestation risks. 46 We contacted plastics and packaging producers to learn how the current focus on plastic waste is impacting their business, and what steps they are taking to reduce negative effects on the environment. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership transition to a low-carbon economy. According reducing the cobalt content of batteries and to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the ensuring better recycling of metals. For example, cement industry accounts for around 7 percent Renault SA is looking into re-using batteries that of global carbon emissions. We also raised the can no longer be used in vehicles for other sustainable use of water and sand in the energy storage. Daimler AG is performing production of cement and concrete products. human rights risk assessments and has LafargeHolcim Ltd is an example of a company published a list of smelters and refiners in its that has committed to cutting its emissions in cobalt supply chain. line with the climate targets in the Paris Agreement in order to manage the transition to We initiated dialogue with 12 companies in the a lower-carbon economy. apparel industry on sustainable business models and measures to reduce emissions and water We also initiated dialogue with ten shipping pollution. The UN has calculated that the apparel companies on the energy transition. New rules industry will account for around 25 percent of from the International Maritime Organization global carbon emissions in 2050, up from around (IMO) on sulphur and ballast water, as well as 10 percent today. This value chain also accounts ambitions for lower carbon emissions, are for 2 percent of the world’s water consumption 47 affecting shipping companies’ strategy. We and a high proportion of micro-plastics in the encouraged the companies to report on climate oceans. Some of these companies, including risks and opportunities, and on how they ensure Kering SA, Industria de DiseñoTextil SA and responsible recycling of ships. AP Moller – Hennes & Mauritz AB, have signed the UN Maersk A/S has set itself the goal of being Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action and carbon-neutral by 2050 and is reporting on committed to cutting their emissions by 30 progress towards this goal. The company is also percent by 2030. reporting on its work on improving social and environmental performance at ship recycling We contacted five large plastics and packaging yards in Alang, India. producers to learn how the current focus on plastic waste is impacting their business, and We continued our dialogue with companies in what steps they are taking to reduce the the automotive industry on how they can utilise negative effects that their products can have on opportunities in the energy transition by selling the environment. The companies contacted low-emission vehicles while also addressing included LyondellBasell Industries NV and Berry risks in the supply chain. Human rights violations Global Group Inc. The companies are generally are a particular challenge in the cobalt supply well aware of the issue and are working on chain. According to Bloomberg, batteries for use developing new recycling technologies and in electric vehicles and electronics account for better systems for handling and measuring 48 percent of cobalt demand. Bayerische plastic waste from production. Motoren Werke AG (BMW), for example, has launched a pilot project with various partners We continued our dialogue with companies on with the aim of improving living and working agricultural runoff. According to the UN, algal conditions for workers at informal cobalt mines blooms are set to increase in many ocean areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. unless there is a reduction in the runoff of Companies are also exploring the possibility of nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus. We contacted six large food and meat producers to education in countries where there is a high risk understand the extent of runoff in their value of child labour. At the same time, the companies chains and how they are managing this issue. stress that local factors, such as weak regulatory We also wanted to draw attention to an area enforcement, and consumers’ reluctance to pay where corporate disclosure is currently limited. more are placing some limitations on this work. The companies contacted included Tyson Foods Inc and General Mills Inc. The latter has We began a dialogue with 14 electronics incorporated water quality into its assessments companies on the potential risk of forced labour of risks in its supply chain and is working actively in own operations and supply chains. The with farmers to improve fertiliser use and International Labour Organization (ILO) provide training in regenerative agriculture. estimated in 2016 that 24.9 million people are victims of forced labour, including 16 million in Human rights the private sector. Labour-intensive processes, We had dialogue with nine companies that sell poor legislative compliance and a high share of cocoa or produce chocolate. Two thirds of the migrant workers contribute to an increased risk world’s cocoa comes from West Africa, and of forced labour in the production of electronics. 48 cocoa production has been an important There are also challenges when it comes to contributor to deforestation in the region. working conditions in the extraction of minerals. According to the Tropical Forest Alliance, Ivory The aim of this dialogue is to gain a better Coast and Ghana lost 17 and 13 percent of their picture of the companies’ due diligence and forests respectively between 2001 and 2017. The management of the risk of forced labour, and to World Cocoa Foundation also reports extensive encourage better reporting. The companies use of child labour in cocoa production in these contacted include Intel Corp, Compal Electronics countries. The aim of the dialogue is to learn Inc and Micron Technology Inc. how the companies are addressing deforestation risks and children’s rights in the supply chain, We continued our dialogue on responsible and how this is affecting their purchasing marketing of breast-milk substitutes. processes. We also encouraged them to improve Breastfeeding is closely associated with child reporting on their supply chains. health and survival. Misleading marketing of breast-milk substitutes can pose a risk to Leading companies such as Barry Callebaut AG, children’s fundamental rights. We are continuing Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Spruengli AG and to encourage companies to draw up policies on Nestlé SA have published action plans and timeresponsible marketing of breast-milk substitutes bound deforestation targets for their supply and to be more open about how they implement chains. Some companies pay more for certified these policies and monitor compliance. Health & products or provide farmers training and access Happiness International Holdings Ltd published to solutions for more climate-friendly a policy on responsible marketing of breast-milk agriculture. When it comes to child labour risk, substitutes in 2019, while Reckitt Benckiser companies such as Nestlé SA and Mondelez Group PLC published more information on how International Inc have systems for monitoring it monitors compliance with its policy, including and remediating child labour in the supply chain. external assurance statements. A number of companies also support organisations that promote children’s rights and Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Anti-corruption and tax Our evaluation of companies’ reporting on tax in We continued our dialogue with seven 2019 revealed considerable differences between companies on anti-corruption disclosure. The companies in terms of their tax management aim was to encourage the companies to improve policies. We therefore initiated dialogue with a their reporting on how they manage corruption further 15 companies to encourage them to risks, and on the results of internal and external develop and publish policies for how they handle evaluations of their anti-corruption efforts. taxes in line with our expectation document on tax transparency. We initiated dialogue with 14 banks who through their products and services could be exposed to Incident based dialogue the risk of abuse for money laundering purposes. On an ongoing basis, we follow up on unwanted Compliance with anti-money laundering incidents indicating poor governance or regulations is a key challenge for financial inadequate management of environmental and institutions. Absence of systems to prevent social risk, as well as corporate governance. In money laundering can lead to fines and 2019, incidents included alleged money laundering reputational damage for companies in the in Swedbank, insufficient reporting of tax risk in industry. The aim of the dialogue is to learn how Sports Direct International PLC and corruption risk 49 banks assess the risk of money laundering and in Credit Suisse Group AG. We also followed up on what steps they have taken to mitigate against it. how Alicorp SAA managed deforestation and human rights risk in supply chains. We contacted ten companies that supply equipment, services and distribution to the oil Dialogue on ethical criteria industry to discuss the use of agency The ethical guidelines for the fund state that, agreements. These companies often use such before making a decision on observation or agreements and other intermediaries to win exclusion, Norges Bank should consider whether contracts. This can lead to an increased risk of other measures, including the exercise of corruption. The aim of this dialogue is to ownership rights, may be more suited to reduce encourage robust due diligence when using the risk of continued norm violations, or agents and intermediaries. whether such alternative measures may be more appropriate for other reasons. We continued our dialogue with six companies that are required by UK law to publish a tax Serious violations of human rights strategy setting out their attitude to tax In April 2018, the Executive Board asked Norges planning, how they manage tax risks, and the Bank Investment Management to raise the risk of board’s involvement in tax matters. The aim of child labour with UPL Ltd as part of our active the dialogue is to discuss our expectations on ownership work. The goal of our dialogue with tax transparency, encourage companies to UPL is to reduce the use of child labour at its develop their own strategies, and learn from subsidiary Advanta Seeds Pty Ltd, which produces good examples of such reporting. Anglo various varieties of seed in India. We had regular American PLC expanded its reporting on the contact with UPL in 2019, including two meetings. management of tax risks during the year, while Royal Dutch Shell PLC published its first countryIn the course of the year, the company laid out a by-country report. new policy on the prevention of child labour. A prohibition against child labour was included in a period of five to ten years. In 2018, Norges contracts with farmers and suppliers. The board Bank decided to continue to engage with mining stated that management regularly informed company AngloGold Ashanti Ltd for a further about policy compliance and measures to avoid three years. child labour, including training of employees. UPL Ltd also considered further measures to The aim of our dialogue with Eni SpA and Royal monitor compliance. In our dialogue with the Dutch Shell PLC is to contribute to a reduction in company we have discussed the use of the number and volume of oil spills and ensure indicators for monitoring and reporting. immediate and effective remediation of spills. We have addressed these issues in four Severe environmental damage meetings with the companies in 2019. In October 2013, the Ministry of Finance asked Norges Bank to include oil spills and During the year, spills from pipelines operated by environmental conditions in the Niger Delta in Eni SpA increased. This was linked to an increase our ownership work with the oil and gas in theft and sabotage around the Nigerian companies Eni SpA and Royal Dutch Shell PLC for general election early in 2019, according to the 50 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership company. In the last few years, the company has We held ten meetings with these companies worked to improve the dialogue with the local between 2017 and 2019 to obtain information on community and improved monitoring and how they are working to prevent corruption. Our response time for spills. Spills resulting from view following these meetings is that the operations were small in 2019. companies have made a number of improvements to their anti-corruption Spills from pipelines operated by Royal Dutch programmes and have generally taken action in Shell PLC also increased in 2019. The company the areas highlighted by the Council on Ethics in experienced an increase in theft and sabotage in its recommendations. the beginning of the year as well as several larger spills resulting from sabotage throughout 2019. Assessment of corruption risk is now integrated The company has introduced more measures, in risk management at Eni SpA and is including maintenance, better protection of coordinated by the company’s new antiwellheads and increased co-operation with local corruption department which reports to communities. Royal Dutch Shell PLC has reduced management. The company has introduced spills from operations to five percent of the policies, procedures and other measures to volume released in 2018. The company works prevent and mitigate corruption risk. This 51 with Nigerian authorities to clean up legacy includes new training measures for employees. pollution in Ogoniland and is paying its required share of the clean-up costs on an ongoing basis. Saipem SpA has changed its approach to This work is in an early phase. corruption risk assessments and strengthened its focus on risk assessments in subsidiaries. The aim of our dialogue with AngloGold Ashanti Corruption prevention systems are monitored by Ltd is to encourage the company to clean up a new unit for risk management and business previous pollution and operate the Obuasi mine integrity as well as the internal audit in Ghana in accordance with internationally department. The board sets anti-corruption recognised standards. We had two meetings policies, ethical guidelines and guidelines for with the company on this topic in 2019, and also anti-corruption. The board has also established a raised the issue of forced relocations. The subcommittee with responsibility for company reports good progress in both its anti-corruption. modernisation programme and the restoration of polluted areas around the Obuasi mine. Given the steps taken by the companies, it appears that there is a reduced risk of future Gross corruption norm violations. Norges Bank has therefore The Executive Board decided in May 2017 to ask decided to discontinue this particular dialogue Norges Bank Investment Management to raise on corruption risk with Eni SpA and Saipem SpA the risk of gross corruption with Eni SpA and under the Guidelines for observation and Saipem SpA as part of our active ownership exclusion of companies. We will, however, work. The objective of our dialogue is to continue to raise relevant topics with the ascertain that the companies’ boards provide companies as part of our ordinary ownership oversight of anti-corruption efforts and that dialogue. effective anti-corruption systems are being implemented. Selected company dialogue on strategic topics Category Expectation Company Details Start EnvironClimate change Toyota Motor Corp Low carbon transition and cobalt 2018 ment sourcing Volkswagen AG Low carbon transition and cobalt 2018 sourcing Bank Polska Kasa Opieki SA Climate change disclosure 2019 Euronav NV Climate change risks and ship 2019 recycling Marfrig Global Foods SA Deforestation in meat supply chain 2017 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co Deforestation in soy and palm oil 2017 supply chain Water Zalando SE Environmental impacts of business 2019 ­management CRH PLC Water use and climate transition risk 2019 Tyson Foods Inc Nutrient run-offs 2018 52 Ocean Hapag-Lloyd AG Climate change risks and ship 2019 ­sustainability recycling Amcor PLC Plastic waste management 2019 Braskem SA Plastic waste management 2019 Social Children's The Hershey Co Child labour and deforestation in the 2019 issues rights cocoa supply chain Meiji Holdings Co Ltd Child labour and deforestation in the 2019 cocoa supply chain Reckitt Benckiser Group Infant formula marketing 2018 PLC Human rights Amazon.com Inc Human rights reporting 2019 Intel Corp Supply chain forced labour risks 2019 Hon Hai Precision Industry Supply chain forced labour risks 2019 Co Ltd Tax and Royal Dutch Shell Plc Tax transparency leadership 2019 ­transparency BNP Paribas SA Tax policy 2019 Mondelez International Inc Tax policy 2019 Anti-corruption Novartis AG Reporting in exposed sectors 2018 Credit Suisse Group AG Reporting in exposed sectors 2018 Citigroup Inc Anti-money laundering systems 2019 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Category Expectation Company Details Start GoverEffective Samsung Electronics Co Board composition and nomination 2019 nance boards Ltd process Honda Motor Co Ltd Board independence 2019 PepsiCo Inc Combined CEO and chairperson roles 2019 CEO remuneGeneral Electric Co Long-term and transparent 2019 ration ­remuneration Mondelez International Inc Long-term and transparent 2019 ­remuneration Microsoft Corp Long-term and transparent 2019 ­remuneration Shareholder Peugeot SA Anti-takeover measures 2019 rights AXA Equitable Holdings Proxy access 2019 Inc Right to call extraordinary shareholder meeting 53 Paramount Group Inc Right to amend bylaws 2019 Follow-up We work with companies, investors Our assessments uncover practices and trends and other stakeholders to improve that are useful when following up our expectations of companies, and can provide the information made available to information that we can use in our voting, the market and promote responsible strategic dialogue and follow-up of risk business practices. This is particularly incidents. Due to companies’ limited disclosure relevant where many companies in the of performance indicators, these assessments will not always reflect the actual results of their same industry or value chain face the work on environmental and social issues. We same challenges. contact companies with weak or limited disclosure and encourage them to improve it, for An important element of our work is to example by reporting in accordance with understand global trends that could affect the established reporting initiatives. We sent letters fund’s ability to generate a long-term return. to 134 companies in 2019 about their reporting Economic activity in one industry can impose on topics covered by our expectation substantial indirect costs on other industries and documents. 54 on society as a whole. We want to learn whether companies in high-risk industries are equipped We saw only limited improvements in 2019 at to manage risks and take advantage of business the companies we contacted about weak opportunities. Understanding of how reporting on climate and deforestation risks in environmental and social issues can impact on 2018, while 52 percent of companies contacted company performance and fund returns is about water management and 31 percent constantly evolving. contacted about children’s rights showed improved reporting. Due to changes in both the To analyse sustainability, we need companies to methodology and the sample, it is not report adequately on their exposures, appropriate to draw direct comparisons with the management and results. We assess companies’ results for 2018. disclosure on governance structure, strategies, risk management and targets. We support initiatives that bring companies together to find common standards for In 2019, we conducted a total of 3,941 sustainable business conduct. These initiatives assessments of companies’ reporting against are most relevant when companies in a our published expectations. We assessed the particular industry or value chain face similar reporting of 1,500 companies on climate challenges. The starting point for our change, 500 on children’s rights and human expectations of companies is that boards should rights respectively, 493 on water management, establish suitable strategies, control functions 250 on anti-corruption, 249 on deforestation and reporting procedures. At the same time, and ocean sustainability respectively, and 200 many companies face practical challenges in on tax. The companies assessed accounted for doing so. The need for standardisation and more 76.2 percent of the equity portfolio’s market universal approaches is considerable. Our value at the end of the year. We have been initiatives cover topics such as supply chain assessing companies’ reporting on management and disclosure. environmental and social issues since 2008. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Good results on sustainability disclosure. Examples from various sectors Children’s rights Climate change Water management Unilever NV Kellogg Co Coca-Cola HBC AG Nestlé SA Verbund AG Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV The Coca-Cola Co Orsted A/S BASF SE Adidas AG L'Oreal SA Danone SA The Hershey Co Owens Corning Iberdrola SA 55 Ocean sustainability Human rights Tax and transparency Kering SA Microsoft Corp Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA Aeon Co Ltd Burberry Group PLC BHP Group PLC PepsiCo Inc Diageo PLC Vodafone Group PLC Marks & Spencer Group PLC Anglo American PLC Pearson PLC Amcor Ltd/Australia HP Inc Telefonica SA Anti-corruption Newmont Goldcorp Corp Naturgy Energy Group SA Alstom SA Engie SA Medtronic PLC 56 Children are the key to future prosperity but also the most vulnerable members of society. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Children’s rights There were considerable differences between We have been assessing how companies industries. Overall, companies in the food and address children’s rights since 2008. We look beverage and personal and household goods particularly at companies that have operations industries provided the most information on or supply chains in sectors with a high risk of their approach to children’s rights. European child labour, or otherwise impact on children’s companies generally reported in more detail rights through their operations, products or than those elsewhere. services. In 2019, we assessed a total of 500 companies in the basic materials, chemicals, Children’s rights in global supply chains automobiles and parts, food and beverage, In 2017, we established a network for children’s media, retail, travel and leisure, personal and rights in the apparel and footwear industry household goods, pharmaceutical, industrial together with UNICEF. Child labour is a challenge goods and services, construction and materials, in the industry’s supply chain, but it can also technology and telecommunication industries. impact children’s rights in other ways. Over a two-year period, leading companies have met The assessments were based on a broader regularly to discuss how children are affected by approach to children’s rights than in previous working conditions in the supply chain. The 57 years. Besides policies and systems for companies have also discussed steps they can addressing child labour, they looked at take in their supply chains to help safeguard transparency on governance structure, due children’s rights. diligence, stakeholder dialogue and grievance mechanisms. In 2019, the network drafted a practical manual for companies which also contains suggested There were major variations in companies’ indicators that they can use in their reporting reporting. In 2019, we identified 11 companies and when evaluating how children’s rights are with very good reporting and 48 with good affected by both their own and their suppliers’ reporting, while 49 percent of the companies processes. A group of companies including had very weak reporting on how they address Hennes & Mauritz AB, Kering SA and VF Corp children’s rights. We found that 49 percent of the discussed experiences from their work on companies had policies that referred to children’s responsible supply chain management, such as rights, including the prohibition of child labour. including children’s rights in policies and risk 80 percent of the companies described support assessments. The aim is for companies to try for organisations or projects to promote out the actions and indicators in the manual to children’s rights. 51 percent shared information improve their practices. on their dialogue with stakeholders, and 28 percent described their grievance mechanisms. 58 In 2019 we saw a continued improvement in both the quantity and quality of companies’ reporting on water management. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Water management companies assessed published some relevant We have been assessing companies exposed to information on water management. water risks since 2010. In 2019, we assessed 493 companies in the basic materials, chemicals, Water risk in agricultural value chains food and beverage, retail, pharmaceutical, While water consumption can be measured in industrial goods and services, oil and gas, and litres, it is difficult for companies to measure and utilities industries. Areas covered included the report on pollution from their own operations scope of the companies’ policies, whether water and agricultural value chains. In September 2019, risk assessments included relevant agricultural we organised a workshop with CDP’s water value chains, and whether quantitative targets programme, inviting a number of companies to have been set for water consumption. discuss how they can best report on this topic. As in previous years, there was considerable Agriculture accounts for around 70 percent of variation in the level of reporting. In 2019, we freshwater consumption worldwide and is an identified 96 companies with very good results important source of pollution of groundwater, and 129 with good results. We saw the best rivers and lakes. Companies that are dependent reporting on governance, and somewhat weaker on agricultural produce – primarily food and 59 reporting on strategies, risk management and beverage producers – may be exposed to risks targets. More than 70 percent of the companies from overconsumption and pollution of water in reported that the board was involved in water their value chains. They could face having management and published policy documents reduced access to water, having penalties on the topic. Almost as many reported the imposed by the authorities, or coming into actions they had taken to reduce water-related conflict with local communities. risks in their operations. Companies in Europe reported better than those elsewhere. The Companies such as Anheuser-Busch InBev SA, industries with the best reporting were oil and Bunge Ltd and The Hain Celestial Group Inc took gas and pharmaceuticals. Basic materials part in the workshop and discussed relevant companies also reported extensively on metrics parameters for water quality and how water such as water consumption and quantitative pollution can best be reported to investors. We targets. participate in CDP’s Water Advisory Council to contribute to the further development of CDP’s We saw a continued improvement in both the water questionnaire and water programme. quantity and quality of companies’ reporting on water management. All in all, 92 percent of the 60 In 2019, we assessed the reporting on climate risk by 1,500 companies. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Climate change household goods, retail, forestry and paper, We have been assessing how companies restaurants, industrial goods and services, address climate risks since 2010. In 2019, we construction and materials, and tire assessed the reporting of 1,500 companies in manufacturers. The indicators included policies the automobiles and parts, basic materials, on deforestation, risk indicators, metrics for chemicals, construction and materials, banks, consumption of forest materials, supplier financial services, insurance, real estate, food collaboration and reporting, and use of and beverage, technology, retail, industrial certifications. We found that 22 percent of the goods and services, oil and gas, electricity, and companies had very weak reporting on travel and leisure industries. The indicators we deforestation. Companies in the industrial goods looked at included the role of the board, and services, restaurants and forestry and paper reporting on physical and transition risks, use of industries had better reporting than those in the scenario planning, policies on lobbying, metrics other industries. Generally speaking, European such as carbon emissions and reduction targets, companies’ reporting was better than that of and whether reporting complied with the companies elsewhere. recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Climate information for the financial sector 61 In 2018, we took part in a pilot project alongside We saw some improvement in companies’ 20 global institutional investors under the UN reporting on climate change in all of the Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative industries. In 2019, 28 percent of the companies (UNEP FI) to develop models for reporting in line had very good reporting, and 26 percent good with the TCFD recommendations. A report was reporting. In general, we saw better reporting on published in May 2019 with an overview of risk management processes than on governance different methods for scenario analyses and a and strategy. There was variation in the level of review of leading analysis providers. climate reporting between both companies and industries. Electricity, retailers and technology The project produced insights into various companies had the best overall reporting. methods for analysing physical and transition The reporting of companies in the construction risks from climate change at both company and and building materials, insurance, financial portfolio level, climate scenarios and the services and industrial goods and services expectations underlying them, as well as into industries was generally weaker. the challenges associated with scenario analyses in different asset classes and how these Around 9 percent of the companies reported analyses can be translated into financial information in line with the TCFD framework. 35 information. The findings provide further percent of the companies stated that they confirmation of the need for adequate, perform scenario analyses, which is an consistent and comparable reporting of improvement on 2018. Around 20 percent used financially material climate data by companies, internal carbon pricing in investment decisions. including asset-specific information. In 2019, we expanded our deforestation assessments to cover 249 companies in eight industries: food and beverage, personal and Human rights companies’ work on preventing and managing In 2019, we assessed 500 companies’ reporting violations of human rights, including the on their policies and systems for assessing and development of more accurate assessment managing the risk of negative human rights methods and performance indicators. In 2019, impacts. We looked at companies in the basic Shift published studies on the challenges around materials, chemicals, automobiles and parts, the use of human rights indicators in food and beverage, personal and household sustainability reporting. goods, retail, travel and leisure, industrial goods and services, construction and materials, oil and The UN Guiding Principles set out companies’ gas, technology, telecommunications, financials responsibility to respect human rights. Since the and pharmaceutical industries. principles were adopted in 2011, companies have put considerable resources into ensuring Companies’ reporting was assessed against a respect for human rights in their operations and number of indicators, including governance supply chains. However, there is a need for more structure, policies, information on due diligence, knowledge about the results of their efforts. grievance mechanisms and stakeholder 62 dialogue. Shift’s studies show that 70 percent of the data reported on social issues concern resources, The assessments revealed considerable variation activities and time spent, while there is less in reporting between the companies on how reporting on outcomes and impacts. Shift has they respect human rights. We identified 78 also developed draft indicators and methods to companies with good reporting and 11 with very improve solutions in six focus areas, including good reporting. 53 percent of the companies human rights risks in business models and had weak or very weak reporting. There were corporate management and culture. Shift also also variations between industries. Generally explored the possibilities for better reflecting the speaking, we found that companies in the value of respect for human rights in financial mining, food and beverage and personal and accounting. household goods industries reported in most detail on their policies and processes for The global apparel supply chain respecting human rights. We have supported the Sustainable Apparel Coalition with contributions to the Social & All in all, 57 percent of the companies had Labor Convergence Program (SLCP) since 2017. policies referring to international principles and SLCP is industry-led and has been working with standards, and 44 percent were open about a broad group of stakeholders to develop their dialogue with stakeholders. 13 percent standardised processes and a common method published information on the indicators they for assessing working conditions in the apparel used to monitor and follow up on actions taken. industry’s supply chains. Business and human rights Good working conditions are essential for a In 2017, we entered into an agreement with sustainable apparel industry. However, there is Shift, a non-profit organisation working with the no universal standard for assessing and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human monitoring working conditions in its supply Rights, on finding better ways of evaluating chain. Companies perform assessments of this Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership kind as part of their own processes for finished assessment in relevant markets. By the supervising and auditing suppliers. This leads to end of 2019, it was available for assessing extensive duplication of the same work, conditions in supply chains in 12 markets. resulting in higher costs for the industry as a Companies such as PVH Corp and NIKE Inc have whole. It can also make it hard for companies to been involved in this work and are using the be transparent about their work, and for SLCP assessments. outsiders to compare companies. In 2019, SLCP was established as an independent programme with a new governance structure. After testing the assessment method in China and Sri Lanka in 2018, SLCP has launched the 63 Tax transparency we organised a meeting where we invited 18 In 2019, we assessed the reporting of 200 other investors to discuss their expectations of companies in the technology, pharmaceuticals, companies when it comes to tax. The meeting consumer goods and services, financials, oil and also allowed participants to exchange gas, and mining industries. The companies’ experiences in engaging with companies on tax reporting was assessed against a number of topics. We also participated in a working group indicators, such as tax management policies, on responsible tax practices led by The B Team. attitude to tax planning, management of tax There are around 20 companies in the group. risks, the board’s involvement in tax matters, and country-by-country reporting. In 2018, we launched an initiative on tax disclosure policies at companies supplying Our analysis revealed considerable variation in consumer goods and services. The aim of the the level of tax disclosure both between initiative is to increase companies’ transparency companies and between industries. 69 percent on tax, share experience and challenges with tax of the companies had weak or very weak policies, and encourage companies to publish reporting on tax. European companies were the board’s strategies and policies on tax. In 64 most transparent about their tax management 2019, the companies participating in this policies. Fewer than 10 percent of companies initiative discussed policies on tax management had published a country-by-country report and the challenges associated with country-byshowing the amount paid to the tax authorities country reporting. in each of the countries in which they operate. Basic materials and oil and gas companies were Anti-corruption generally more open about tax. In 2019, we assessed the reporting of 250 companies in the oil and gas, basic materials, Greater interest in tax disclosure heavy construction, industrial goods and We contributed to several initiatives in 2019 that services, telecommunications, financials and aim to draw attention to how companies handle pharmaceutical industries. The companies’ tax. Together with the Dutch pension fund ABP, Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership reporting was assessed against 14 indicators, exchange further information on which antiincluding transparency on governance structure, corruption indicators they base their internal policies for combating corruption, risk reporting on, and to look together at indicators assessments, reporting on corruption-related that lend themselves to public reporting. incidents, external evaluation of anti-corruption programmes, and dialogue with stakeholders. We also renewed our support for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which aims to We found that 31 percent of the companies had prevent corruption in the oil and gas and mining weak or very weak reporting on anti-corruption. industries. Together with the Council on Ethics Most were relatively open about how the board of the AP Funds in Sweden, we held a meeting and management address corruption risks. We with investors and non-profit organisations to also found that many companies make their antiincrease understanding of investors’ work on corruption policies and strategies public. Some anti-corruption. reported in more detail on measures to prevent and detect corruption, such as staff training and internal whistleblowing systems. 65 The companies provided less information on the follow-up of anti-corruption actions and the results of internal and external evaluations of the efficacy of these actions. There were also variations between industries, with telecommunications, oil and gas and basic materials companies generally being more open about their anti-corruption work. Generally speaking, European companies’ reporting was better than that of companies elsewhere. Anti-corruption indicators and reporting In 2019, we continued our dialogue with a number of pharmaceutical companies on corruption risks in the industry. The aim is to promote broad discussion of the efficacy of anticorruption programmes, develop methods and indicators for company reporting the results of such programmes, and share experiences of internal and external evaluation. The companies taking part in this dialogue have expressed a wish for more standardised and comparable reporting, as this can help identify leading practices and build trust between companies, investors and other stakeholders. We therefore invited the companies to join an initiative to 66 How companies manage ocean-related risks and opportunities could affect our long-term return as an investor. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership Ocean sustainability Action Platform on Sustainable Ocean How companies manage ocean-related risks and Business opportunities could affect our long-term return In 2018, the fund joined the UN Global as an investor. Compact’s Action Platform on Sustainable Ocean Business. The aim of the platform is to In 2019, we assessed reporting on ocean use by develop an international framework for business 249 companies in the mining, chemicals, tire leadership on sustainable management of manufacturers, food and beverage, retail, travel marine resources. Other participants include and leisure, containers and packaging, marine companies from sectors with activities transportation, waste and disposal services, and connected with the ocean, UN institutions, nonoil and gas industries. Their reporting was profit organisations and research bodies. The assessed against a number of indicators, such as platform is due to complete its work and publish strategy for avoiding illegal, unreported and the overall results in June 2020. unregulated fishing, use of relevant certifications, and reporting on consumption of As part of the platform, we have led a working plastics. To varying degrees, these companies group developing international principles for base their operations on the ocean, rely on ocean sustainability. These principles were 67 marine resources, or may have a negative impact launched in New York in September 2019 and on the ocean through pollution of water systems look at companies’ role in helping maintain or the production of plastic packaging. ocean health and productivity, engaging with regulators and promoting standards, and Only 26 percent of the companies assessed had providing relevant data and transparency. Our good or very good reporting on relevant oceancontribution to the working group built on our related topics. Ocean sustainability is an area expectations of companies on managing risks with very little standardised reporting, and we and opportunities related to sustainable uses of expect both disclosure and metrics to improve in the ocean. We endorsed the new principles the years ahead. ahead of their launch. The indicators on which most companies reported were governance structure and risk management. The industries with the best reporting were containers and packaging, marine transportation and beverage production. Almost all of the beverage producers had set quantitative targets for reducing packaging, and all container and packaging companies had incorporated relevant trends into their business strategies. Oil and gas companies generally had the worst reporting, only 33 percent having published a policy document on protecting the ocean. (CER) Oppdatert: 07/01 EFL Chart 4 Results for companies we assessed on children’s rights in Chart 5 Results for companies we assessed on water management 2019. Number of companies in 2019. Number of companies Chart 2 Results for companies we assessed on chilChart 3 Results for companies we assessed on water dren’s rights in 2019. Number of companies management in 2019. Number of companies 250 250 150 150 125 125 200 200 100 100 150 150 75 75 100 100 50 50 50 50 25 25 0 0 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 68 UPDATED: 07/01/2020 (CER) Chart 6 Results for companies we assessed on climate change in Chart 7 Results for companies we assessed on human rights in 2019. Number of companies 2019. Number of companies Chart 4 Results for companies we assessed on cliChart 5 Results for companies we assessed on human mate change in 2019. Number of companies rights in 2019. Number of companies 500 500 150 150 125 125 400 400 100 100 300 300 75 75 200 200 50 50 100 100 25 25 0 0 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 20 (DRG) Updated: 07.01.2020 (DRG) Chart 8 Results for companies we assessed on human rights in Chart 9 Results for companies we assessed on human rights in 2019. Number of companies 2019. Number of companies Chart 6 Results for companies we assessed on tax and Chart 7 Results for companies we assessed on anti-­ transparency in 2019. Number of companies corruption in 2019. Number of companies 125 125 150 150 125 125 100 100 100 100 75 75 75 75 50 50 50 50 25 25 25 25 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 69 EFL NY: 07/01 EFL Chart 10 Results for companies we assessed on ocean Chart 11 Results for companies we assessed on ocean sustainability in 2019. Number of companies sustainability in 2019. Number of companies Chart 8 Results for companies we assessed on ocean Chart 9 Assessment of company reporting 2015–2019. sustainability in 2019. Number of companies Number of assessments 100 100 4,000 4,000 3,500 3,500 75 75 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 50 50 2,000 2,000 1,500 1,500 25 25 1,000 1,000 500 500 0 0 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 70 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investere ansvarlig 3.3 4 Investing sustainably Risk assessments _______________________ 72 Investments ____________________________ 81 71 Divestments ____________________________ 86 Risk assessments In order to assess companies, we How companies manage natural resources, need them to move from words address human rights and adapt to long-term trends will be important for their capacity to to numbers. This gives us a better create value. We aim to understand the full understanding of the risks and range of risks facing companies and how these opportunities in our investments. can impact fund-level risk and return in the longer term. We monitor our investments and assess sustainability-related risks and opportunities as part of our risk management. We concentrate on issues that we believe could have a material impact on the fund’s financial value. Sustainability data As a long-term investor, we want companies to 72 report on sustainability-related risks and opportunities. In order to analyse risks and opportunities across the portfolio, we need consistent reporting of metrics that are standardised at industry level. We also see a need for simpler reporting. We do not necessarily want more data, but rather more relevant data from all companies. Standard setters should further consolidate their frameworks for the data they collect, and regulators need to set clear requirements for such disclosure. We obtain environmental and social data from companies’ own reports and from external data providers where relevant. Some data are publicly available, while some are accessed by participating in various initiatives. We also commission research from specialists when we need more sophisticated analysis. Academic institutions, the media and non-profit organisations are also important sources of information. We encourage stakeholders to share information that they believe could be relevant for our investments. In 2019, we obtained input in areas such as tax, Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably anti-corruption, marine disposal of mine waste, models, expected technological progress and responsible marketing, and deforestation and potential regulatory changes. They provide an human rights violations in the supply chains for illustration of possible outcomes but are not cobalt, palm oil and cocoa. We value regular predictions of the future. input and contact. There is no standard method for investors’ Climate risk data scenario analyses. Ideally, the scenarios should The portfolio’s climate-related risks can be be based on well-founded assumptions about divided into physical risks and risks related to the future carbon emissions, physical climate transition to a low-carbon economy. These risks changes and macroeconomic conditions. The have different time horizons. Physical risks scenarios must also use reasonable assumptions include exposure to extreme weather events for companies’ future development based on such as floods, droughts or heat waves. their industry and region, regulatory and Transition risks include regulatory changes, technological developments, and their technological innovations and evolving installations and assets. It is essential to have a consumer preferences. The risk we face as an good understanding of the model’s core investor is not the same as the risk faced by assumptions, uncertainties in the data, and 73 individual companies. The price of the assets an interactions between the drivers in the model. investor buys, and the degree to which this price reflects climate risk, affects the financial risk. A We are working on developing different methods broadly diversified and market-weighted and tools for climate scenarios that can give us a portfolio will, in principle, have roughly the same broad and deep understanding of how climate financial climate risk as the underlying markets risk might affect individual companies and the and sectors in which it is invested. portfolio as a whole. For example, we look at future cash flows and carbon emissions at In order to gain a better understanding of this company level, and at how possible future risk, we obtain analyses and participate in regulation in the form of carbon pricing and projects to assess and, where possible, quantify carbon quotas might impact different physical and transition risks at companies. One companies, industries and regions. The aim of general challenge facing analyses of climate risk this work is eventually to be able to understand is the limited availability of high-quality and how climate risks could affect portfolio returns. relevant data. Numerous initiatives are under way to increase corporate disclosure and The data and models used for scenario analyses investor access to data. are currently associated with great uncertainty, making it difficult to ascertain how individual Climate scenarios companies’ operations and earnings will be Scenario analyses are used to illustrate different affected in different scenarios. We are therefore future outcomes for climate risk and better working actively with companies that operate in understand climate risk over long time periods. industries with elevated climate risks to improve These analyses can shed light on both physical their reporting. As we gain access to more and transition risks in the portfolio, but are relevant and detailed data, our analyses of based on factors that are often subject to climate risk both in the portfolio as a whole and considerable uncertainty, such as climate at company level will improve. 74 We are working on developing different methods and tools for climate scenarios that can give us a broad and deep understanding of how climate ??? risk might affect individual companies and the portfolio as a whole. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Carbon footprint information permitting the calculation of We have been analysing the carbon footprint of emissions. For 52 percent of the companies in companies in our portfolio since 2015. This the portfolio, emissions have been estimated analysis provides an insight into the level of using models. This results in greater uncertainty carbon emissions from the companies in which than hard emissions data. For 8 percent of we are invested. It can also shed light on risks companies, emissions have been estimated and opportunities across industries. simply on the basis of the median for their sector. In these cases, uncertainty about actual We follow the recommendations for asset emissions is considerable. managers from the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) when Total emissions and our percentage share calculating the fund’s carbon footprint. We start Based on our percentage holdings in each from the greenhouse gas emissions of each company, the total emissions of the equity individual company in the equity portfolio, portfolio were108 million tonnes of CO2measured as tonnes of CO2-equivalents. These equivalents in 2019. This is around twice emissions data are supplied by analysis firm Norway’s total emissions in 2018 of 52 million Trucost and cover companies’ Scope 1 and Scope tonnes of CO2-equivalents as reported by 75 2 emissions. Scope 3 emissions are not included Statistics Norway. The carbon footprint of the in this analysis. At portfolio level, we calculate companies in our equity portfolio was at about emissions in relation to the fund’s holding, the same level as in 2018. Emissions from the revenue and market value. We report emissions companies in the equity portfolio were about data at sector level for the fund, for the the same as for the benchmark index. benchmark index and for the FTSE Global All Cap index, which is the starting point for the These emissions are driven largely by industries benchmark index defined by the Ministry of with high energy consumption, such as mining Finance. This analysis of carbon emissions and metals, heavy industry, oil and gas, and provides only a snapshot, however, and does not power production. Within these high-emission take account of companies’ strategy, industry industries, there are in turn a number of large structure and other factors. companies that account for the bulk of emissions. Reporting on carbon emissions still varies in frequency and quality. Emissions data are We have also calculated what the carbon footprint generally published in connection with a of the companies in the benchmark index would company’s annual report early the following year. have been without any ethical exclusions under When analysing emissions data for 2019, the the Ministry of Finance’s guidelines for observation most up-to-date numbers will therefore come and exclusion from the Government Pension Fund from companies’ annual reports for 2018 Global. These exclusions have reduced the published in 2019. Where a company has not benchmark index’s carbon footprint by 19 percent, published emissions data for 2018, we will use due mainly to exclusions under the coal criterion. data reported for 2017 or estimates. In this analysis, 20 percent of companies disclosed data Carbon intensity on carbon emissions directly in their reports or The companies in our equity portfolio emitted via CDP. 20 percent provided relevant around 156 tonnes of CO2-equivalents for every million US dollars (USD) of revenue. This is be viewed as emissions per unit of money referred to as the equity portfolio’s carbon invested. The equivalent figure for the intensity. benchmark index was 134 tonnes of CO2equivalents per million USD. The difference can The equity portfolio’s carbon intensity was 3 be explained by our investments in industrials, percent below that of the benchmark index. The basic materials and utilities having lower difference can largely be put down to our emissions in relation to their market value than investments in industrials and utilities having a the companies in the benchmark index. By way lower carbon intensity than the companies in the of comparison, the companies in the FTSE benchmark index. By way of comparison, the Global All Cap emitted 165 tonnes of CO2equity portfolio’s carbon intensity was 20 equivalents per million USD, which is 28 percent percent lower than that of the FTSE Global All more than for our equity portfolio. Cap. We report carbon emissions by market value by The carbon intensity of the companies in the dividing each individual company’s emissions by equity portfolio and the benchmark index its market value. We can then compare different 76 decreased by 16 and 17 percent respectively companies’ and sectors’ emissions for the same from 2018 to 2019. This is mainly because amount invested. This metric can give investors companies’ revenues increased. useful information for comparing the carbon footprint of equity investments across sectors It is worth noting that carbon intensity is and companies. affected by changes in the prices of the products companies sell. For example, an oil company’s Emissions by market value are affected by a carbon intensity will decrease when oil prices company’s share price. This means that external rise, even if its emissions are constant. Similarly, factors unrelated to carbon emissions can result a company that sells luxury cars will have a lower in differences between two otherwise identical carbon intensity than one that sells cheaper companies. For example, a decline in a cars, even if both produce the same number of company’s share price will increase its emissions cars. by market value even if its actual emissions are unchanged. Nor does this metric take account of To calculate the total carbon intensity of the different companies having different capital companies in the portfolio, we weight each structures (ratio between debt and equity). company’s carbon intensity by the value of our investment divided by the value of the entire Emissions in the corporate bond portfolio equity portfolio. This is the metric recommended The corporate bond portfolio’s carbon intensity by the TCFD, because it makes it possible to is 13 percent below that of the benchmark index. compare emissions across companies, sectors This is mainly because our investments in and managers. industrial companies have a lower carbon intensity than the benchmark index. Emissions and market value The companies in the equity portfolio emitted When we invest in bonds, we lend capital to 129 tonnes of CO2-equivalents for every million companies that have operations that may US dollars (USD) of market value. This can also release greenhouse gases. This lending does Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Table 5 Scope 1 and 2 emissions by sector as at 31 December 2019 Equity portfolio Benchmark index FTSE Global All Cap Sector Tonnes CO2 equivalents Tonnes CO2 equivalents Tonnes CO2 equivalents Basic materials 25,520,930 26,564,554 4,064,966,371 Consumer goods 5,019,479 5,034,474 597,237,766 Consumer services 8,613,837 6,489,564 892,749,697 Financials 2,274,429 2,182,262 247,568,541 Health care 907,628 847,754 72,110,587 Industrials 21,255,448 22,989,746 2,457,386,732 Oil and gas 20,019,106 19,941,383 2,016,170,447 Technology 1,985,234 1,918,897 187,861,150 Telecommunications 977,375 1,010,650 115,649,495 77 Utilities 20,994,984 22,157,633 5,661,484,463 Sum 107,568,451 109,136,917 16,313,185,248 Table 6 Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity by sector, weighted by market value of fund holdings. Equity portfolio, benchmark index and FTSE Global All Cap as at 31 December 2019 Equity portfolio Benchmark index FTSE Global All Cap Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Sector million dollars in sales revenue million dollars in sales revenue million dollars in sales revenue Basic materials 762 748 786 Consumer goods 65 64 62 Consumer services 74 68 67 Financials 45 39 39 Health care 32 31 31 Industrials 235 253 235 Oil and gas 424 419 419 Technology 42 40 40 Telecommunications 53 54 54 Utilities 1,194 1,288 2,011 Weighted total 156 161 194 not, however, affect our percentage ownership Given the inherent risk, we pay particular in the company. To measure the carbon footprint attention to our investments in emerging of companies in the bond portfolio, we link the markets. In 2019, we analysed sustainability risks issuer of the bond to the parent company where at around 1,200 companies in emerging markets. the emissions actually occur. We multiply the These analyses are used internally in work on company’s emissions by the value of our lending the portfolio and also serve as a basis for divided by the value of all corporate bonds. We dialogue with external managers, additional risk then add these figures together to produce monitoring and, in some cases, risk-based totals for the fund and the benchmark index. The divestments. result is a measure of the carbon footprint of the corporate bond portfolio. Finally, we disclose the In addition, we assess industries with corporate bond portfolio’s carbon intensity, particularly high sustainability risks. These calculated in an equivalent way to that for industry analyses are often the first step in our equities. We multiply the carbon intensity of work on identifying companies requiring each company by the value of our lending, divide additional investigation and follow-up. In some this by the value of all corporate bonds, and then cases, the analysis can lead to risk-based 78 sum to fund level. divestment from a company. Examples of industries examined in 2019 include agriculture, Sustainability assessments forestry and fisheries, real estate, mining, We constantly monitor environmental, social generation, transmission and distribution of and governance risks in the countries, industries electricity, and construction and materials. and companies in which the fund is invested. We constantly monitor the companies in our Some markets have inherently higher portfolio in order to pick up incidents that might sustainability risks. This is particularly the case in indicate failures in the management of emerging markets, where regulation in areas environmental, social and governance risks. In such as pollution, child labour and corruption 2019, we identified 141 incidents related to may not be as robust as in more developed environmental and social issues of which 42 markets. were analysed in greater depth in incident briefs. We looked particularly at incidents such as When investing in emerging markets, we rely alleged corruption, fraud, pollution, mainly on external managers. Our work on deforestation, health and safety violations, and monitoring sustainability risks covers all negative impacts on local communities. In companies in the portfolio, including those addition, we keep a close eye on our largest managed externally. External managers have a investments and prepare separate reports when local presence and specialise in the markets they our holding in a company exceeds 5 percent. invest in. They have a good knowledge and understanding of these markets. We also require Our analysis may lead us to engage with the external managers to take account of company to understand better how it environmental, social and governance risks in approaches relevant risks and to encourage their investment activities. This is followed up as better reporting. In some cases, we may also part of the fund’s annual assessment of these divest from the company to reduce the fund’s managers. exposure to unacceptable risks. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Table 7 Scope 1 and 2 emissions by market capitalisation, weighted by market value of fund holdings.1 Equity portfolio, benchmark index and FTSE Global All Cap. As at 31 December 2019 Equity portfolio Benchmark index FTSE Global All Cap Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Sector million dollars invested million dollars invested million dollars invested Basic materials 686 747 801 Consumer goods 54 53 51 Consumer services 95 75 75 Financials 12 12 12 Health care 10 9 9 Industrials 195 209 194 Oil and gas 486 453 453 Technology 17 16 16 79 Telecommunications 44 46 46 Utilities 888 968 1,612 Weighted total 129 134 165 1 Does not take into account companies’ different capital structure (debt-to-equity ratio). Table 8 Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the fixed-income corporate portfolio and benchmark index as at 31 December 2019 Average emissions intensity weighted by market value of fund holdings. Tonnes CO2 equivalents per million Tonnes CO2 equivalents dollars in sales revenue Fixed-income corporate portfolio 4,338,734 153 Benchmark index 5,550,128 175 Difference -1,211,394 -22 80 We have environmental investments in three main areas: low-carbon energy and alternative fuels, clean energy and energy efficiency, and natural resource management. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Investments We use sustainability data to identify Low-carbon energy and alternative fuels long-term investment opportunities. Power generation and transport are major contributors to carbon emissions. Technological We see opportunities in companies advances in these areas can significantly reduce that enable more environmentally global emissions. We are increasingly seeing friendly economic activity. national and local authorities publishing plans to be carbon-neutral and reach other climate targets by 2030–2050. There is also considerable Environmental mandates interest from companies in buying renewable At the end of 2019, we had 62.3 billion kroner energy directly from producers on long-term invested in shares in 77 companies and 17.1 contracts. billion kroner invested in green bonds under dedicated environmental mandates. Companies operating in these segments include Engie SA, Eversource Energy and EDP SA. Equity investments under the environmental mandates returned 35.8 percent in 2019, while Clean energy and energy efficiency the green bonds returned 3.0 percent. The Investments in solutions to climate challenges annualised return on the equity investments have traditionally been made mainly in energy 81 since inception in 2010 has been 7.3 percent. production and concentrated on clean and The environmental mandates are now managed renewable energy. More recently, opportunities entirely in-house. on the demand side have begun to attract more attention. We screen our environmental investments against information supplied by specialist The transport industry is making progress, partly external data providers and is integrated into our through more efficient traditional combustion sustainability databases. Our goal is to engines and hybrid technologies. Major determine to the extent to which our advances are also being made in electric investments are exposed to environmentally vehicles. Thanks to technological innovations friendly activities through their revenue or and investment, we are now seeing a strong rise operations. in the number of electric models coming to market. Demand for energy efficiency We invest in three main areas: low-carbon technology in construction and industry has energy and alternative fuels, clean energy and increased. Substantial reductions in energy energy efficiency, and natural resource consumption can be achieved through better management. Companies must have at least 20 insulation, lighting, heating and ventilation percent of their business in one of these areas to systems, as well as automation and solutions be included in our environmental universe. that control these processes. These three categories also largely coincide with the UN Sustainable Development Goals for Companies operating in these segments include climate, clean energy and resource Infineon Technologies AG, Omron Corp and management. Eaton Corp PLC. 82 Companies are increasingly developing capacity for the ??? production of energy from renewable sources such as wind, solar, hydro, geothermal and waste. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Natural resource management energy from waste and making good use of Efficient utilisation of natural resources is organic materials are two ways in which waste important for water management, waste can be a resource. One notable example is the management, recycling, agriculture and forestry. collection of methane gas from landfills. Efficient Meeting the world’s need for high-quality water land management and agricultural production in an efficient manner is a global challenge. The are also needed to ensure availability of food for infrastructure to achieve this requires heavy a growing population while limiting negative investment, particularly as demand for water is environmental impacts. expected to grow substantially. In areas with scarce water resources, it is important to have Companies operating in these segments include solutions that enable recycling of water through West Fraser Timber Co Ltd, Severn Trent PLC and treatment processes and efficient pumping, Tetra Tech Inc. measurement and control solutions. Recovering 83 Table 9 Return on the environment-related equity mandates, funding and other return series. Annualised data, measured in the fund’s currency basket. Percent Since 01.01.2010 Last 5 years Last 3 years 2019 Return on the environment-related equity mandates 7.3 11.5 14.9 35.8 Return on the funding of the environment-related 4.4 7.5 8.7 21.1 equity mandates 1 Return on the FTSE Environmental Technology 50 index 5.6 8.8 12.7 33.0 Return on the FTSE Environmental Opportunities 11.4 11.2 13.5 31.2 All-Share index Return on the MSCI Global Environment index 8.9 9.3 12.1 24.3 Return on the benchmark index for equities 9.6 8.7 10.8 25.7 1 The funding of the environment-related equity mandates includes dedicated allocation to environment-related equity mandates in the reference portfolio. Table 10 Top ten equity holdings in the low-emission energy and alternative fuel segment in the fund’s environmental portfolio as at 31 December 2019 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE sector Millions of kroner Percent Iberdrola SA Spain Utilities 4,496 7.2 Sempra Energy United States Utilities 4,471 7.2 NextEra Energy Inc United States Utilities 4,448 7.1 Linde PLC United States Basic materials 2,359 3.8 National Grid PLC United Kingdom Utilities 1,416 2.3 EDP – Energias de ­Portugal SA Portugal Utilities 1,235 2.0 Enel SpA Italy Utilities 1,186 1.9 Engie SA France Utilities 1,173 1.9 SSE PLC United Kingdom Utilities 990 1.6 Edison International United States Utilities 598 1.0 84 Table 11 Top ten equity holdings in the clean energy and efficiency technology segment in the fund’s environmental portfolio as at 31 December 2019 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE sector Millions of kroner Percent Daikin Industries Ltd Japan Industrials 2,396 3.8 Keyence Corp Japan Industrials 2,118 3.4 Legrand SA France Industrials 2,036 3.3 Thermo Fisher ­Scientific Inc United States Health care 1,971 3.2 Eaton Corp PLC United States Industrials 1,770 2.8 Siemens Gamesa ­Renewable Spain Oil and gas 956 1.5 Energy SA Infineon Technologies AG Germany Technology 873 1.4 Tesla Inc United States Consumer goods 770 1.2 Dassault Systèmes SE France Technology 703 1.1 TE Connectivity Ltd United States Industrials 643 1.0 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Table 12 Top ten equity holdings in the natural resource management segment in the fund’s environmental portfolio as at 31 December 2019 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE sector Millions of kroner Percent Waste Connections Inc Canada Industrials 2,080 3.3 DS Smith PLC United Kingdom Industrials 2,008 3.2 LKQ Corp United States Consumer goods 1,763 2.8 Koninklijke DSM NV Netherlands Basic materials 1,333 2.1 Xylem Inc/NY United States Industrials 1,160 1.9 Tetra Tech Inc United States Industrials 924 1.5 Aqua America Inc United States Utilities 880 1.4 West Fraser Timber Co Ltd Canada Basic materials 786 1.3 Copart Inc United States Consumer services 775 1.2 Advanced Disposal Services Inc United States Industrials 643 1.0 85 Energy from waste and making good use of organic materials are two ways in which waste can be a resource. Divestments There are companies in which we Council on Ethics exchange information regularly choose not to invest. This includes and co-ordinate contact with the companies in which we are invested. Norges Bank excluded those that violate fundamental four companies and revoked the exclusion of ethical norms or impose substantial seven companies in 2019. costs on society through their operations. By not investing in these Product-based exclusions The fund must not invest in companies which companies, we reduce our exposure themselves, or through entities they control, to unacceptable risks. manufacture weapons that violate fundamental humanitarian principles through their normal use, or sell weapons or military materiel to The Ministry of Finance has issued ethically certain countries. Nor may the fund invest in motivated guidelines for observation and companies that produce tobacco. There is also a exclusion of companies from the fund. The fund product-based coal criterion that applies to must not be invested in companies that produce companies in two categories: mining companies 86 certain types of weapon, base their operations that derive 30 percent or more of their revenue on coal, or produce tobacco. Nor may the fund from the production of thermal coal, and power be invested in companies whose conduct companies that derive 30 percent or more of contributes to violations of fundamental ethical their revenue from coal-based power production. norms. The Ministry of Finance has set up an independent Council on Ethics to make ethical In addition, the Ministry of Finance expanded the assessments of companies. The Council on coal criterion in 2019 to include mining and Ethics sends its recommendations to Norges power companies that produce more than 20 Bank, which then makes the final decision on million tonnes of thermal coal per year or have exclusion, observation or active ownership. coal-based power generation capacity of more than 10,000 MW, regardless of total revenue or Finally, Norges Bank itself may decide to divest total power output. from companies that impose substantial costs on other companies and on society as a whole, Two coal companies were excluded in 2019, and so are not long-term sustainable. while two exclusions under the product criteria Companies not considered sustainable often were revoked. A total of 104 companies that have business models that do not conform to produce certain types of weapon, tobacco or prevailing technological, regulatory or coal, or use coal for power production, are environmental trends. currently excluded from the fund. Ethical exclusions Norges Bank makes decisions on the observation and exclusion of companies after receiving a recommendation from the Council on Ethics. The Council on Ethics has five members and a secretariat. Norges Bank and the Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Ethical decisions in 2019 Number Category Criterion Companies in 2019 Total 2012-2019 in 2019 Exclusion Thermal coal mining or coal-ba2 Evergy Inc, Washington 69 sed power production H. Soul Pattinson & Co Ltd Production of specific weapon 0 0 18 types Production of tobacco 0 0 17 Severe environmental damage 1 Halcyon Agri Corp Ltd 15 Contributions to climate change 0 0 0 Human rights violations 2 Texwinca Holdings Co, 5 G4S PLC Gross corruption 0 0 2 Other particularly serious violati0 0 2 ons of fundamental ethical norms Serious violations of the rights 0 0 2 of individuals in situations of war or conflict Severe environmental damage 0 0 4 87 and human rights violations Observation Thermal coal mining or coal-­ 0 0 14 based power production Severe environmental damage 0 0 1 Human rights violations 0 0 3 Gross corruption 0 0 2 Severe environmental damage 0 0 1 and human rights violations Revoked Production of specific weapon 1 General Dynamics Corp 3 exclusions types Production of tobacco 1 Grupo Carso SAB de CV 1 Severe environmental damage 2 Rio Tinto Ltd, Rio Tinto 2 PLC Human rights violations 2 Walmart Inc, Wal-Mart 2 de Mexico SAB de CV Other particularly serious 1 Nutrien Ltd 3 ­violations of fundamental ­ethical norms Observation Gross corruption 1 Petroleo Brasileiro SA 2 ended Conduct-based exclusions some weapons manufacturers is the primary Companies may also be excluded if there is an reason for the reduction in returns, but the unacceptable risk of conduct considered to exclusion of tobacco producers has contributed constitute a particularly serious violation of as well. ethical norms. Norges Bank bases its decisions on an assessment of the probability of future Conduct-based exclusions have increased the norm violations, the severity and extent of the cumulative return on the equity benchmark violations, and the connection between the index by around 0.8 percentage point, or 0.03 violation and the company in which the fund is percentage point annually. invested. Norges Bank may also consider the breadth of the company’s operations Updated: and governance, KEI 16/01/2020 JJO 17/01/2020 including whether the company is doing what Chart 10 Return impact of equity benchmark index can reasonably be expected to reduce Chartthe 12 risk of impact of equity Return benchmark index exclusions relative to an unadjusted index. Measured in exclusions relative to an unadjusted index. dollars. future norm violations within a reasonable time Percentage points Measured in dollars. Percentage points 88 frame. Before Norges Bank takes a decision to exclude a company, it must consider whether 1.5 1.5 other measures, such as active ownership, 1.0 1.0 might be more suited to reduce the risk of continued norm violations, or whether such 0.5 0.5 alternative measures may be more appropriate 0 0 for other reasons. -0.5 -0.5 -1.0 -1.0 In 2019, three companies were excluded on the grounds of conduct considered to constitute -1.5 -1.5 particularly serious violations of ethical norms, -2.0 -2.0 while five exclusions under the conduct criteria -2.5 -2.5 were revoked, and Petroleo Brasileiro SA was -3.0 -3.0 removed from observation for corruption risks. 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Conduct-based exclusions Product-based exclusions A total of 30 companies are currently excluded Total due to their conduct. Impact on the fund’s equity returns When companies are excluded from the fund based on ethics, they are also removed from the benchmark index. Product-based exclusions have reduced the cumulative return on the equity benchmark index by around 2.1 percentage points, or 0.07 percentage point annually. The exclusion of Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Since 2006, the equity benchmark index has We integrate analysis of environmental, social returned 1.3 percentage points less than it would and governance issues into our risk have done without any ethical exclusions. On an management. This may result in divestment annualised basis, the return has been 0.04 from companies where we see particularly high percentage point lower. long-term risks. This might, for example, be where a company could end up paying fines or Risk-based divestments being excluded from markets on account of In 2019, we divested from 42 companies irresponsible business practices, or being following assessments of environmental, social outcompeted by others that manage these risks and governance risks. Altogether, we have better. There may also be indirect risks, with divested from 282 companies since 2012. companies’ operations having negative Table 13 Contribution to return impact of equity benchmark index exclusions by exclusion criterion as at 31 December 2019. Market value in billions of kroner. Contribution measured in dollars. Percentage points Number of Market value in 89 excluded companies benchmark if not 2006–2019 Criterion from benchmark1 excluded 2019 ­annualised Product-based exclusions 104 198 0.06 -0.07 Production of specific weapon 18 81 -0.07 -0.05 types Production of tobacco 17 57 0.04 -0.01 Thermal coal mining or coal-­ 69 60 0.08 0.00 based power production Conduct-based exclusions 30 45 -0.03 0.03 Human rights violations 5 21 -0.01 -0.01 Serious violations of the rights 2 0 0.00 0.00 of individuals in situations of war or conflict Severe environmental damage 15 23 -0.02 0.03 Gross corruption 2 1 -0.01 0.00 Other particularly serious 2 0 0.00 0.00 ­violations of fundamental ethical norms Severe environmental damage 4 0 0.00 0.00 and human rights violations Total 134 243 0.03 -0.04 1 Includes companies that are not in the benchmark universe. externalities for society and undermining may lead to higher operating costs or reduced sustainable economic development in the longer demand. As part of our work on climate risk, we term. also look at business activities that could lead to deforestation, which is a significant contributor We wish to reduce our exposure to such to carbon emissions. companies over time and would rather invest in companies with more sustainable business Coal-based power production and coal mining models. Risk-based divestments are one way of Power producers’ use of thermal coal as a fuel is doing so. an area with particularly high regulatory risks in some markets. More and more countries have We carry out divestments within the overall introduced targets to reduce carbon emissions limits for portfolio deviation from the benchmark from the power industry, especially in the wake index. Where we have substantial investments in of the Paris Agreement. a company, dialogue may be a more suitable approach than divestment. We generally have Like coal-based power producers, mining better analytical coverage of our largest companies that produce thermal coal for power 90 investments, and more contact with their board production will face challenges in the transition and management. to a low-carbon economy. Our diversified portfolio requires us to take a When we assess companies for divestment, we systematic approach to risk-based divestment. look at what share of their operations is based Many of the topics and industries covered by our on coal, be it the production of thermal coal or divestment analyses are also addressed in our the use of this coal in power production. We ongoing work on standard setting and active have chosen to divest from companies where it ownership. Risk-based divestment is often the is difficult to confirm their exposure to coal, but last resort after other possibilities have been where we believe it to be above a certain considered but deemed insufficient. threshold. Our analysis resulted in divestment from 16 power producers and 12 mining We do not publish a list of companies from companies in 2019. which we have divested, but we are transparent about the criteria underpinning our decisions. Carbon intensity We also publish annual holding lists showing all Our analysis of climate risk in the portfolio of the companies in our portfolio, which makes it includes companies’ carbon intensity, i.e. possible to understand changes from one year greenhouse gas emissions in relation to to the next. revenue. Carbon intensity may be a useful factor when analysing multiple companies operating in Climate change the same industry or with similar business We assess the risk associated with carbon models, because it says something about how emissions from companies in the portfolio. energy-efficient their operations are, which in Companies that have operations or value chains turn says something about the costs and risks with particularly high carbon emissions may be associated with that business model. exposed to risks in the event of regulatory changes or other market developments. This Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably In 2019, we looked at a selection of companies in be a threat to the local population’s human and the portfolio with a substantially higher carbon indigenous rights. There is a broad consensus intensity than other companies in the same that the production of palm oil is a significant industry. This was an important element in a contributor to tropical deforestation. review of current investments in, and previous divestments from, companies engaged in When considering companies for divestment, cement production. However, no further we focus on those that operate palm oil divestments were made on the grounds of plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia, and have carbon intensity in 2019. palm oil production as a significant part of their business. We also look at whether companies Palm oil have been certified by the Roundtable on Deforestation has significant environmental and Sustainable Palm Oil, or plan to become social consequences. Forests are an important certified. In 2019, we reviewed current part of the ecosystem and help maintain investments in, and previous divestments from, biodiversity, store carbon and produce oxygen. companies exposed to palm oil production. No In some regions, deforestation is one of the further divestment decisions were made on the main sources of carbon emissions and can also basis of this analysis in 2019. 91 92 The ethical exclusions have reduced the benchmark index’s carbon footprint by 19 percent, due mainly to exclusions under the coal criterion. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably Risk-based divestments in 2019 Expectation Theme Criteria 2019 Climate change Coal-based power Relevant percentage of business mix allocated to production electricity production 16 Coal at relevant percentage of fuel-mix Thermal coal Owns/operates thermal coal mines mining 12 Relevant business mix allocated to thermal coal extraction Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Exposure to high-risk sectors and markets Indications of insufficient risk management 1 related to corruption and corporate governance Human rights Human rights Exposure to high-risk sectors and markets 93 Indications of insufficient risk management 8 related to human rights, labour rights or health, safety and environment Other Other Activities exposed to unacceptably high risk from an environmental, social or governance 5 perspective but not linked to any of our Expectation documents. Anti-corruption question are also removed from the fund’s Failure to address governance risks can lead to equity reference portfolio. We can measure the production stoppages and fines, loss of impact of these divestments on the fund’s contracts and reputational damage for equity returns by comparing the equity companies. In 2019, we continued to assess reference portfolio with and without risk-based significant governance issues in our work on risk divestments. monitoring and risk-based divestments. Since 2012, risk-based divestments have As a result of our analysis in this area, we increased the cumulative return on the equity divested from one company with high exposure reference portfolio by around 0.27 percentage to corruption risks and signs of inadequate point, or 0.02 percentage point annually. management of this exposure. Examples of such signs include documented incidents relating to Over time, risk-based divestments linked to corruption or governance. climate change and human rights have increased the cumulative return on the equity reference Human rights 94 We assess companies’ exposure to social risks in areas such as human rights, labour rights, and health and safety. In some cases, we find that companies with high inherent risk exposure have documented incidents indicating possible violations of human rights or poor management of health and safety. The risk of companies being Updated: KEI 16/01/2020 JJO 17/01/2020 involved in further incidents is deemed excessive Chart 11 Return impact of risk-based divestments on in some cases, and we chose to divest from the reference portfolio for equities, compared eight companies in 2019. Figur Return impact of risk-based divestments on thenot to a portfolio reference adjusted portfolio for equities, compared to a portfolio not for risk-based adjusted for risk-based divestments. Measured divestments.in dollars. Percentage Measured points in dollars. Percentage Other unacceptable risks points In addition to the areas covered by our 0.30 0.30 expectation documents, we monitor other 0.25 0.25 factors that may expose companies in our portfolio to unacceptable risks. This screening 0.20 0.20 has picked up five such companies, and we have 0.15 0.15 therefore chosen to divest from them. 0.10 0.10 Impact on the fund’s equity returns 0.05 0.05 The purpose of our risk-based divestments is to 0.00 0.00 reduce our exposure to companies operating in ways that are not considered sustainable. In -0.05 -0.05 addition to reducing risk, these divestments can -0.10 -0.10 affect returns on both the equity portfolio and 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 the equity reference portfolio. When we perform Climate change Water management Anti-corruption risk-based divestments, the companies in Human rights Other Total Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably portfolio by 0.21 and 0.06 percentage point issues into their strategy, risk management and respectively. Risk-based divestments linked to reporting could contribute positively over time anti-corruption have decreased the cumulative to the fund’s return and to economic return on the equity reference portfolio by 0.04 development in general. percentage point, while divestments linked to water management have had a negligible impact The aim of our exclusions and divestments is to on the return. avoid investing in companies that produce certain types of products or are responsible for There are many factors that influence market violations of ethical principles, and to reduce the developments in general and the share prices of fund’s exposure to other unacceptable risks. This individual companies. The impact of companies’ is the final stage in our responsible investment approaches to environmental, social and management. Our objective is to manage and governance issues is difficult to isolate and build financial wealth for future generations, and measure in the short term. At the same time, we all parts of our responsible investment believe that companies that integrate these management are to further this objective. 95 Table 14 Contribution to return impact of equity reference portfolio risk-based divestments as at 31 December 2019. Market value in billions of kroner. Contribution measured in dollars. Percentage points Market value in the Number of­ reference portfolio if 2012–2019 Expectation companies divested1 not sold 2019 annualised Climate change 170 12 0.02 0.01 Water management 46 5 0.01 0.00 Anti-corruption 23 8 0.01 0.00 Human rights 29 5 0.01 0.00 Other 14 1 0.03 0.00 Total 282 32 0.09 0.02 1 Includes companies that are not in the reference portfolio. Responsible investment in the management mandate Chapter 1. General provisions § 4-2. Responsible management principles § 1-2. The management objective 1 The Bank shall establish principles for the The Bank shall seek to achieve the highest responsible management of the investment possible return after costs measured in the portfolio. The principles shall be presented to the investment portfolio’s currency basket, see Ministry at least three weeks prior to approval. section 3-2, first paragraph, and within the applicable management framework. 2 In designing the principles pursuant to the first paragraph, the Bank shall emphasise the § 1-3. General management framework long-term horizon for the management of the 3 Responsible investment management shall investment portfolio and that the investment be an integral part of the management of the portfolio shall be broadly diversified. investment portfolio, cf. chapter 4. A good longterm return is considered dependent on 3 The principles shall be based on the sustainable development in economical, considerations of good corporate governance environmental and social terms, as well as welland environmental and social conditions in functioning, legitimate and efficient markets. investment management, in accordance with 96 internationally recognised principles and 4 The Fund shall not be invested in standards such as the UN Global Compact, the companies excluded pursuant to the provisions OECD’s Principles of Corporate Governance and in the Guidelines for Observation and Exclusion the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational from the GPFG. Enterprises. § 1-4. Advisory duty and right to express an 4 The principles and the use of instruments to opinion, etc. support them shall be published, cf. section 4-1 5 The Bank shall contribute to research with and section 6-1, fourth paragraph, letter h. the aim of developing greater knowledge of matters relevant to the investment portfolio’s 5 In its management of the unlisted real risk and return in the long term, including estate portfolio, the Bank shall, within the research within responsible investment environmental field, consider, among other management. The Executive Board shall matters, energy efficiency, water consumption establish guidelines for this work. The Ministry and waste management. shall be informed of plans for such research and given an opportunity to comment. § 4-3. Contribution to development of international standards Chapter 4. Responsible investment 1 The Bank shall actively contribute to the management development of relevant international standards § 4-1. Chapter 4. Responsible management in the area of responsible management. activities The Bank shall seek to establish a chain of 2 The Executive Board shall establish measures as part of its responsible management guidelines for the Bank’s work pursuant to the activities. first paragraph, including for membership of, or corresponding affiliation to, organisations or alliances, and for contact with authorities in Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2019 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably other countries. The guidelines shall be including renewable energy, energy efficiency, presented to the Ministry at least three weeks carbon capture and storage, water technology prior to approval. and environment-related services such as waste and pollution management, etc. § 4-4. Environment-related investments 1 The Bank shall establish mandates for § 4-5. Decisions on exclusion and observation environment-related investments. The market The Executive Board shall make decisions on the value of the environment-related investments observation or exclusion of companies, and on shall normally be in the range of NOK 30-120 the revocation of such decisions, in accordance billion. with the Guidelines for Observation and Exclusion from the GPFG. The Bank shall inform 2 The environment-related investment the Ministry about decisions on exclusion of mandates shall be directed towards companies and the revocation of such decisions, environmentally-friendly assets or technology, cf. section 2-1, third paragraph. 97 ISSN 2387-399X Design: Scandinavian Design Group Photos: Shutterstock, Hans Fredrik Asbjørnsen, OffsetComp/ Cultura, GettyImages, AdobeStock. Paper: Galerie Art Silk 300 g / Matt 150 g Production: 07 Media AS | Print run: 350 NORGES BANK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Bankplassen 2, P.O. Box 1179 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo T: +47 24 07 30 00, www.nbim.no
