UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2020 Communication on Progress Submitted on November 30, 2020 I. Statement from President The Law Offices of Marc J. Lane, A Professional Corporation is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are a law firm with a strong focus on corporate governance, respect for the environment, and social justice issues. Our firm engages in a wide range of activities to include extensive writing on corporate governance, active support of numerous nonprofits and social enterprises, and advocacy work in support of client missions. Through this work, we actively encourage investment decisions that directly support the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles. The Law Offices of Marc J. Lane, A Professional Corporation is committed to continuously improve our process. We conduct weekly status meetings to review our progress on the various actions we are undertaking at any given time to identify and recommend additional ways to improve our environmental, social, and governance activities and to document and monitor our results, and, of course, improve our performance. Going forward, we seek to explore the growing opportunities for client advocacy to better address the social and environmental concerns reflected by our clients. We are looking for new ways to partner with others to advance corporate governance issues as they are a key part of our practice as well. The Law Offices of Marc J. Lane, A Professional Corporation, continues to learn and develop as a sustainable and responsible business. We are committed to this process as a long-term and ongoing effort and we pledge to continually strive for improvement in all areas of our operations. Sincerely, MARC J. LANE President November 30, 2020 II. Implementation of the Global Compact and its Principles The Law Offices of Marc J. Lane, A Professional Corporation is committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As a sustainable and responsible law firm, we strive to identify and work with clients whose corporate behavior reflects our firm’s values and we act as advocates to promote our clients’ personal beliefs and values on environmental, social and governance issues. Our President is a prolific writer in these areas and has written over 36 books. III. Measurement of Outcome The Law Offices of Marc J. Lane, A Professional Corporation actively provides education on corporate governance and advocacy online, through webinars, seminar presentations, and public speaking events. We also act as legal counsel to our affiliated investment firm and assist in the voting of our clients’ shareholder proxies in accordance with clients’ wishes or in their absence, under our extensive proxy voting guidelines. Our monthly newsletter, The Lane Report, is another tool that we use to keep a wide audience of clients and other interested parties alike informed about pertinent social issues. To date, this publication reaches over 3783 subscribers. Meeting with clients and prospects, financial advisors, and other members of the legal community, we proactively spread the word on the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles. We have exceeded our targets for presentations, subscriptions, and media opportunities; however, we continue to strive to improve in our efforts to educate and inform.
