ESG Report 2019 Supporting a sustainable society ESG Report 2019 Letter from the CEO The code to a sustainable future At Netcompany we feel deeply state-of-the-art, fair and corrupI seize every opportunity to speak up responsible for contributing to the tion-free society. In close collaboration and inspire people to acquire digital continuous positive development of with companies, authorities, educaskills as we will need to bring all talents our society. Our vision as a leading IT tional and political institutions it is my into play. This is crucial and needed in service company is to continuously firm belief that together we have every our mission to find tangible solutions improve and build strong, sustainable opportunity to find innovative and towards the fulfilment of the UN’s sussocieties, successful companies and solid answers to the 17 goals outlined tainable goals making the world an better lives for all of us. by the UN to transform our world. even better place in the future. I strongly believe that digitalisation is Education and training are to me the If we engage ourselves and are brave, a crucial determinant of future growth best investments for a prosperous we can ensure our children may also and welfare, and likewise instrumental future. In Netcompany we understand, grow up in a safe and sustainable in supporting correct, transparent, fair that our ongoing success and delivery future. and trustful government handling of capabilities are directly linked to our citizens and businesses. Furthermore, ability to continuously develop the Our ESG report 2019 will introduce technology will be a crucial driver in most talented employees with the you to how our core values and our fighting climate change, ensuring pubright skillset. This is why we offer a commitment to being a responsible lic health, protecting our democracies unique learning environment and the player in society are manifested in our and guarding us against cybercrime. industry’s best career development everyday work and in the many initiaopportunities. tives our company has taken. At Netcompany we feel compelled to take responsibility. We have the pasEqually in society, we need to sion, the people and the ability to exeempower people with competencies cute and support a modern, fit for the digital age. André Rogaczewski CEO and Co-Founder 2 ESG Report 2019 Content Environment Climate impact 15 Governance Management Structure 30 Direct GHG emissions (CO₂e scope 1) 15 Attendance on board meetings 31 Indirect GHG emissions (CO₂e scope 2) 15 Recommendations on Introduction to the report 4 Energy consumption 16 Corporate Governance 31 Water consumption 16 Whistle-blower 31 ESG key figures 5 Environmental value and initiatives 17 Gender diversity at board United Nations Global Compact 6 The value of IT-soluctions in society 17 and management level 32 Summary of our SDG targets Waste management and recycling 17 Remuneration of Executive Management and activities 7 Travelling 17 and employees 34 Environmental risks 18 Data protection and privacy 34 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 35 Who we are 11 Governance risks 36 Social Netcompany's business model 12 Netcompany's influence on society 20 Sustainable solutions and services 20 Netcompany's solutions 21 Our sustainability strategy 13 Taxations 21 Environment 14 Customer satisfaction 22 Human rights 22 Social 19 Labour 22 Governance 29 Digital Dogme 23 Netcompany’s responsibility towards employees 24 ESG in the future 37 Working in Netcompany 24 Employee satisfaction 24 Work environment 24 After Dark a strong social community 25 Netcompany Academy 25 Diversity 26 Spotlight on gender balance 26 Social risks 28 3 ESG Report 2019 Introduction to the report In this ESG report for 2019, we In our ESG reporting we have chosen describe our corporate policies and to follow Nasdaq’s guidelines on key ESG commitments, as well as our figures in a way that is meaningful to strategies, objectives and activities to Netcompany (e.g. in relation to the continuously improve the integration company’s high growth in recent years of the United Nations Global Compact and the industry we operate within) so and its principles into our business that the ESG report may genuinely strategy and daily operations. The depict Netcompany’s overall business. ESG report also constitutes NetcomTo this extent, we have also chosen to pany Group A/S’ statutory statement report on some key figures other than on corporate social responsibility for the ones that are recommended by the financial year of 2019 pursuant to Nasdaq. Our key figures are both presection 99(a) of the Danish Financial sented in our annual report and in this Statements Act, as well as NetcomESG report. pany Group A/S’ and Netcompany A/S’ statutory statement on the For the purpose of this ESG report, underrepresented gender pursuant to “Netcompany” is defined as all group section 99(b). Also included are Netcompanies, and where necessary the company Group A/S’ reporting on individual companies are referred to Communication on Progress in relaby the countries, they are located in. tion to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Introduction to the report 4 ESG Report 2019 ESG key figures Interest in sustainability has increased ESG-headand key figures overview Unit Goal (2020) 2019 2018 2017 dramatically in recent years, as it has become more and more evident that Environment data we must take an active part in preCO2e, scope 1 Tons per FTE <0.03 0.03 0.03 0.01 serving our planet, just as we must act CO2e, scope 2 Tons per FTE <0.39 0.39 0.44 0.39 in transparency in order to secure a Energy consumption GJ per FTE <10.48 10.48 11.16 6.99 stable and equal society for all. Taking Water consumption m3 per FTE <7.51 7.51 9.00 6.72 responsibility for our impact in the world both socially and environmenSocial data tally is a vital part of Netcompany’s values, and it is also a vital part of Full-time employees incl. freelancers and contractors FTE 2,293 1,861 1,256 ensuring Netcompany’s overall susGender diversity f/m 20%/80% 19%/81% 19%/81% 17%/83% tainability for the long run. Gender diversity for other management teams f/m 13%/87% 12%/88% 10%/90% 9%/91% Sick leave % <3.0 2.7 3.5 2.9 It is for the same reasons that we have Employee satisfaction eNPS above 20 42 36 48 chosen to report on Netcompany’s Customer satisfaction NPS above 20 22 26 11 ESG activities and key figures following Nasdaq’s guidelines on ESG Governance data reporting, giving investors, analysts and anyone else who may be interGender diversity Board of Directors (BoD) f/m 20%/80% 20%/80% 17%/83% 0%/100% ested, insight into our ways of acting Attendance at the BoD meetings % >97 97 95 99 as a responsible player in society. Each of the ESG key figures and their development – as shown in the table – will be presented and explained in the ESG report along with a highlight of Netcompany’s activities to contribute to the realisation of a more sustainable world. Introduction to the report 5 ESG Report 2019 United Nations Global Compact Netcompany has been committed to focus its ESG efforts on the UN goals Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) no. 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, and 17. The IT for many years, and since 2013 we industry we operate in is a sector prihave signed up to the UN Global Commarily based on the use of labour pact principles for companies’ work forces, and our direct climate impact with corporate social responsibility. is therefore also somewhat limited. Netcompany’s main ESG activities are Our sustainability strategy defines our therefore also focussed on the areas overall focus area, targets and activiof social responsibility. ties. Our ambition is to contribute to promoting and fulfilling the UN’s 2030 In the following summary, each of the agenda for Sustainable Development SDG goals mentioned above will be and the 17 Sustainable Development presented along with the specific SDG Goals (SDGs) associated with it. targets that Netcompany is dedicated to fulfilling as well as a summary of UN Sustainable Development Goals Netcompany’s activities to contribute In the pursuit of achieving the UN’s to the realisation of the UN goals. SDGs, Netcompany has chosen to Introduction to the report 6 ESG Report 2019 Summary of our SDG targets We empower and promote equal opportunities for all. and activities We ensure equal opportunities for men and women. We ensure a safe and healthy working Stronger together environment for all. We promote and offer towards the learning opportunities for all. UN’s sustainable development goals We act in transparency and as a morally founded company. We build resilient infrastructures and help support sustainable industrialisation. We secure sustainable We collaborate for a waste management and stronger society towards reduction of resource digital skills. consumption. Introduction to the report 7 ESG Report 2019 Goal: Netcompany also supports various Goal: Examples of our activities: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality learning initiatives through NetcomAchieve gender equality and In Netcompany we offer equal opporeducation and promote lifelong pany Academy where we develop empower all women and girls. tunities for men and women, just as learning opportunities for all. some of the best IT talents in the we keep promoting diversity and industry through an internal unique Targets: inclusion throughout the organisation Targets: training programme. 5.1 End all forms of discrimination as well as in society. This is pro4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and against all women and girls moted, among others, through transboys complete free, equitable Every six months, Netcompany also everywhere. parent recruitment processes and and quality primary and secondoffers practical placements for 4 to talent development. Further, Netary education leading to relevant 16 undergraduate engineering stu5.5 Ensure women’s full and effeccompany has equal pay, which means and Goal-4 effective learning dents. The placement scheme is a tive participation and equal that employees with similar experioutcomes. compulsory part of the undergraduopportunities for leadership at ence and performance ratings are ate engineering programme. all levels of decision making in paid equally irrespective of gender. 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase political, economic and public Netcompany also collaborates with the number of youth and adults Furthermore, Netcompany collabolife. universities and schools on initiatives who have relevant skills, includraties with the universities, where that focus on attracting more women ing technical and vocational various presentations are delivered 5.B Enhance the use of enabling to the IT industry. skills, for employment, decent by Netcompany to inform the stutechnology, in particular inforjobs and entrepreneurship. dents about their career possibilities mation and communications within the IT industry. technology, to promote the Examples of our activities: empowerment of women. Netcompany is one of the main initiaNetcompany also makes donations tors behind the project Digital Dogme, to the Danish non-profit organisation, 5.C Adopt and strengthen sound poliwhere several companies have comCoding Pirates, whose purpose is to cies and enforceable legislation mitted themselves to participate in a promote productive and creative IT for the promotion of gender new collaborative movement working skills in children and young people equality and the empowerment of towards further IT educational trainthrough social and educational all women and girls at all levels. ing for company employees. The aim activities. for Digital Dogme is to develop many more digitally skilled employees in Finally, Netcompany holds several order to support the growing need for guest lectures at Danish universities IT competencies in society. for female software students, which Netcompany gives every year. Introduction to the report 8 ESG Report 2019 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. Goal: Examples of our activities: Goal: Examples of our activities: Promote inclusive and sustainable Netcompany is continuously working Build resilient infrastructure, promote Through our digital solutions we supeconomic growth, employment and towards technological upgrades and inclusive and sustainable industrialiport the development of innovative decent work for all. innovative solutions that can help sation and foster innovation. digital infrastructures in society and further world digitalisation and ecoefficient resource use, enabling indusTargets: nomic growth. This is achieved Targets: trial growth while at the same time 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic through our substantial and talented 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainremaining sustainable. Our solutions productivity through diversificalabour force of approximately 2,500 able and resilient infrastructure, are built on secure platforms that are tion, technological upgrading and employees worldwide. including regional and transborflexible and scalable, where informainnovation, including through a der infrastructure, to support tion can be accessed anytime and focus on high value added and Netcompany’s remarkable growth economic development and from anywhere. Furthermore, Netlabour-intensive sectors. has generated hundreds of new jobs human well-being, with a focus company holds several positions in every year, contributing to the genon affordable and equitable governmental boards and associa8.5 By 2030, achieve full and produceral education and training of new IT access for all. tions that focus specifically on how tive employment and decent talents and the overall reduction of digitalisation can build resilient infrawork for all women and men, unemployment rates. A significant 9.2 Promote inclusive and sustainastructures and help support sustainaincluding for young people and number of jobs are occupied by ble industrialisation and, by ble industrialisation. persons with disabilities, and graduates, which, as a result, also 2030, significantly raise indusequal pay for work of equal value. contributes to the overall reduction try’s share of employment and of the unemployment rate within the gross domestic product, in line 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the youth labour force. with national circumstances, and proportion of youth not in employdouble its share in least develment, education or training. In Netcompany, we’re committed to oped countries ensuring a safe and healthy working 8.7 Take immediate and effective environment for all our employees in 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure measures to eradicate forced respect of all legal obligations and and retrofit industries to make labour, end modern slavery and rights of the employees, as well as in them sustainable, with increased human trafficking and secure the accordance with our moral values. resource-use efficiency and prohibition and elimination of the This includes, among others, fair and greater adoption of clean and worst forms of child labour, equal wages, rest and leisure, safe environmentally sound technoloincluding recruitment and use of and comfortable working environgies and industrial processes, child soldiers, and by 2025 end ments, and the clear renunciation of with all countries taking action in child labour in all its forms. the use of childand forced labour. accordance with their respective capabilities. Introduction to the report 9 ESG Report 2019 Goal: Goal: Goal: Goal: Reduce inequality within and Ensure sustainable consumption Promote just, peaceful and Revitalise the global partnership for among countries. and production patterns. inclusive societies. sustainable development. Targets: Targets: Targets: Targets: 10.2 By 2030, empower and pro12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustain16.2 End abuse, exploitation, traf17.17 Encourage and promote mote the social, economic and able management and effificking and all forms of vioeffective public, publicpolitical inclusion of all, irrecient use of natural resources. lence against and torture of private and civil society spective of age, sex, disability, children. partnerships, building on the race, ethnicity, origin, religion 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce experience and resourcing or economic or other status. waste generation through pre16.5 Substantially reduce corrupstrategies of partnerships. vention, reduction, recycling tion and bribery in all their 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and and reuse. forms. Examples of our activities: reduce inequalities of outThrough our movement Digital come, including by eliminating Examples of our activities: Examples of our activities: Dogme and participation in several discriminatory laws, policies Netcompany is dedicated to preIn Netcompany, we firmly condemn other professional networks, we are and practices and promoting serving the environment and has a all use of child labour, human traffrequently cooperating with other appropriate legislation, polinumber of internal procedures to ficking and any form of exploitation companies and entities to solve cies and action in this regard. secure sustainable waste manageof any human being. As a result, we critical issues in society, such as the ment and reduction of resource have implemented internal policies lack of IT educated personnel, and Examples of our activities: consumption. As concrete examsuch as our Anti-slavery Policy and to pass on experiences that may Netcompany has always found ples, Netcompany uses recycled our Anti-bribery and Anti-corruphelp the transfer of knowledge great value and strength in diverpaper and in Poland, Netcompany tion Policy to make our stance clear within the IT and digital industries. sity. It drives innovative solutions has replaced the use of plastic botto both the company’s employees that are key to both Netcompany tles with purified tap water and and business partners. We’ve also and the world as a whole. As such, reusable containers. All outdated implemented a whistle-blower syswe always actively invite everyone equipment is either sold, recycled tem where reports can be filed to apply for vacancies in the comor properly disposed of accordingly. anonymously by anyone that may pany irrespective of gender, age, have suspicions or knowledge of race, religious beliefs etc. signalling In addition to Netcompany’s own iniany discrepancies. the inclusive values that are fundatiatives to secure responsible waste mental to us as a company and management, Netcompany is also characterises our practices and currently working with the municiway of business. pality of Copenhagen in order to provide a digital waste management system. Introduction to the report 10 ESG Report 2019 Who we are Netcompany is a pure-play next generCompany has grown, both domestiation IT service company, delivering cally and internationally, into a combusiness-critical strategic IT projects, pany with more than 2,500 employees that accelerate customers’ digital transacross 6 different countries. formation through digital platforms, core systems and infrastructure serThe reason for Netcompany’s remarkavices in both public and private organible growth is, among others, to be sations, throughout Northern Europe. found in the quality of the work that Netcompany delivers on every project, Founded in 2000, Netcompany has its as well as the high level of accountabilheadquarters in Copenhagen, Denity that Netcompany maintains in all of mark. Over the last couple of years the its business dealings. Who we are 11 ESG Report 2019 Netcompany's business Established, repeatable and scalable business model new projects, is based on an operational evaluation by Netcompany's model Netcompany operates its own unique, experienced IT professionals. established, repeatable and scalable business model designed to deliver Unique, agile, deliverable-driven Outstanding talent & career excellence in digital transformation on methodology and toolkit. development model time, on budget and within scope Netcompany’s business model involves through three key pillars: the use of an agile, transparent and deliverable-driven methodology and Young workforce Outstanding talent and career toolkit which we believe is unique. This Peopl with outstanding e development model. methodology and toolkit provide a talent Netcompany’s IT professionals are complete set of guidelines, tools and highly skilled, many coming from top templates for planning, delivering, universities with advanced IT or scimanaging and documenting complex ence related degrees. Netcompany integrated IT solutions. It is used focuses on talent and career developacross all projects and throughout all ment through the company's accelerstages, from development to mainteated merit-based career development nance and operations. Netcompany’s Disruptive management model s & Delivery programme which rewards top persupporting toolkit includes stringent & integrated sales approach Sale formers with accelerated progression collaboration and approval processes Delivering through the various career stages with customers, in order to ensure that from Consultant to Partner. both Netcompany and its customers digital transIT-people leading have a firm, common and completely formation IT-people Disruptive management model and integrated sales approach. transparent understanding of all deliverables as well as project progress. Netcompany’s business model is focussed on a decentralised manageCentral to the business model is the ment model focused on IT people leadcommitment to “always deliver”, ing IT people throughout all levels of thereby supporting Netcompany and the organisation. Netcompany employs its customers in successfully meeting Unique, agile, deliverable-driven an integrated sales and delivery their needs. Through the continued methodology & toolkit approach whereby the same individufocus on delivery – on time, on budget on u ti als responsible for selling IT services to and in agreed quality – Netcompany Exec customers are also responsible for has during the last 20 years consistExecution delivering such systems and solutions, ently built a track record unrivalled in on time and maintenance and operations. In addithe industry. The capabilities to build in budget tion, Netcompany's risk assessment such a track record lie in our continued calculation, which is important when focus on talent and talent development. pricing, scoping and committing to Who we are 12 ESG Report 2019 Our sustainability strategy Netcompany feels substantially responNetcompany’s ESG activities are govsible for contributing to the continuous erned through several documents and development and sustainability of the processes, including Netcompany’s societies in which the company operCode of Conduct, Anti-slavery Policy, ates to help create a better future for all Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Pol– not because Netcompany has grown icy, Environment Policy, ESG Policy, into a size and a role where it is Tax Policy and Employee Handbook, expected, but because Netcompany is as well as in the day-to-day managecapable and because it is within the ment of the company. Each of these company’s core values. documents and processes is designed to ensure that Netcompany lives up to As part of this responsibility, Netcomits ESG ambitions. pany is accountable for the ways in which the company influences society In 2020, Netcompany aims to and for the same reason Netcompany strengthen its internal ESG managehas chosen to report on its ESG activiment further, by creating an even ties covering our environmental, social stronger link between the company’s and governance activities. business strategies and activities. Our sustainability strategy 13 ESG Report 2019 Environment The IT industry we operate in is a secIn Netcompany we are keenly aware of tor primarily based on the use of our responsibility towards our surlabour forces, as opposed to the proroundings, and one of the greatest duction industries that use heavy environmental contributions we make machinery, and our direct climate is through our software solutions that impact is therefore also somewhat limenable our customers to reduce their ited. This however, does not mean that environmental footprints. we cannot or must not take a proactive and responsible approach to creNetcompany’s environmental commitating a positive effect on the climate. ments are also shown through several of our activities and processes, includWith new technology, the IT industry ing Netcompany’s Environment Policy, can contribute to the reduction of CO₂ which aims to not only mitigate our emissions and energy optimisation in own environmental footprint but also other industries. For example, the use to support our customers to do the of cloud solutions, big data, and artifisame by developing IT-solutions that cial intelligence can show how manusupport sustainable operations. facturing companies can organise their production in the best way to save energy and reduce their carbon footprint. In our environmental activities we focus on the SDG targets no. 9 and 12. Our sustainability strategy Environment 14 ESG Report 2019 Climate impact In September 2018, Netcompany in Netcompany delivers IT solutions and Indirect GHG emissions Denmark commissioned an audit does not use any fossil fuels in a pro(CO�e scope 2) report on the company’s energy effiduction capacity, which is why Netcacy in accordance with the requirecompany neither produce nor emits Indirect GHG emissions (CO₂e scope 2) ments pursuant to directive 2012/27/ any direct GHG emissions in this includes emissions that derives from the EU (“Energy Audit Report”). The regard. Netcompany’s direct GHG energy used to produce electricity, Energy Audit Report covered all of the emissions are therefore only related to heating and cooling for Netcompany’s Danish locations and the conclusion transport by company vehicles. usage, purchased from a third party. was that there were only a few alternative energy saving solutions to be As the numbers show, there has been Netcompany’s indirect climate emisimplemented within the company. In a slight increase in emissions from sions are primarily related to the use the following section of this report, 2017 – 2019 going from 0,01 tons/avg. of electricity at Netcompany’s locareferences will be made to the results FTE to 0,03 tons/avg. FTE. The tions and the use of electronic devices and recommendations of the Energy increase is caused by the employment by employees in their everyday work. Audit Report, as Netcompany’s genof more personnel that are covered by The heating and cooling of Netcompaeral environmental reporting will folthe company car scheme and are ny’s office buildings and energy used low the recommended guidelines and therefore due to Netcompany’s by servers located at third parties are calculation formulas issued by Nasdaq. growth. The vast majority of our comalso included. pany cars are leased and less than Due to the rapid increase in the numthree years old. According to the A lot of the employees in Netcompany ber of employees from year to year, Energy Audit Report there are no furare temporarily located at NetcompaNetcompany has chosen to report ther measures, other than good drivny’s customers premises while they on the company’s consumption per ing, that can be taken in order to deliver ongoing IT projects. On this average FTE. reduce the energy consumption basis it is possible to keep the housing regarding the company car scheme. facilities and the associated energy Direct GHG emissions consumption to a minimum. Despite (CO�e scope 1) As part of Netcompany’s Transport this, it has been necessary in recent Policy, employees are generally years to expand to new locations in Direct GHG emissions (CO₂e scope 1) encouraged to minimise all transpororder to accommodate the increasing includes emissions that derives from tation that leads to GHG emissions as number of employees, just as it has Netcompany’s own combustion of fosmuch as possible. been necessary to obtain further sil fuels and materials. server capacity. The increased energy consumption resulting from the Our sustainability strategy Environment 15 ESG Report 2019 expansions and the need for extra other locations, just as we will conNetcompany is always striving to years, which indicates that the water server capacity are reflected in the tinue to look for ways to reduce Netbecome more energy efficient and consumption is at a level where it is numbers of Netcompany’s indirect company’s overall CO₂ emissions. whenever viable seeks to employ only related to the basic needs of the CO₂ emissions going from 0,39 tons/ clean and efficient energy sources in employees. It is of course necessary to avg. FTE in 2017 to 0,44 tons/avg. FTE Energy consumption network operations and facility manprovide enough quantities of water to in 2018. agement. Netcompany will continue to the employees, and for the sake of The total energy consumption do so and look further into new techtheir well-being it is therefore neither Netcompany is constantly trying to includes energy consumed from CO₂e nological initiatives that may reduce an area that can be altered much to minimise the company’s climate scope 1 and 2 and energy from renewthe company’s energy consumption in reduce Netcompany’s overall water impact, and as one of our climate initiable energy sources. the future. consumption. atives, Netcompany in Denmark changed the orginal halogen lightNetcompany’s equipment is continuWater consumption It is noted that some of the data is estibulbs installed in the offices to energy ously monitored and updated to utilise mated, as our water consumption data efficient LED light-bulbs in 2018, in line modern power saving infrastructures, The water consumption includes the for the years of 2017 and 2018 does not with the recommendation of the so that we may, along with our cussum of all water used from all sources exist for all our offices. Energy Audit Report. The results of tomers' solutions, contribute to the such as spring water, surface water this change are positively shown in the realisation of our strong commitment and ground water. decreased emissions in 2019 at 0,39 to keep energy consumption as low as tons/avg. FTE. possible. Netcompany’s water consumption is only related to the consumption of All of Netcompany’s electronic Netcompany’s energy consumption employees in regard to drinking water devices are new and the computers went from 6,99 GJ/avg. FTE in 2017 to and sanitary purposes. To prevent any used are the most energy efficient 11,19 GJ/avg. FTE in 2018 and 10,65 excess water consumption, Netcomcomputers available on the market. GJ/avg. FTE in 2019. As the total pany has installed two-flush toilets and Due to the basic needs of the employenergy consumption includes CO₂ movement censors at the water faucets ees and the necessary energy emissions from scope 1 and 2 the reain most of the company’s bathrooms. required for Netcompany’s work persons behind the increase and decrease formance, there is of course a limitain our total energy comsumption is In the years 2017 – 2019 the overall tion to the extent that Netcompany linked to the same reasons for the water consumption has been between can decrease its indirect CO₂ emisincreases and decreases in Netcompa6.72 – 9.00 m3 per average FTE per sions per average FTE. As of now, ny’s CO₂ emissions, those being the year. In comparison, a normal person’s there are however still locations where expansions to new locations, need for total water consumption throughout a some of the initiatives mentioned extra server capacity, employment of year in a private household in Denabove have not yet been implemore personnel covered by the commark1 is estimated at around 37.59 m3. mented, and we will therefore conpany car scheme and change from Netcompany’s water consumption has tinue to roll these initiatives out to our halogen lightbulbs to LED lightbulbs. been relatively stable throughout the 1 https://www.danva.dk/media/5002/2018 _vand-i-tal.pdf Our sustainability strategy Environment 16 ESG Report 2019 Environmental value and initiatives The value of IT-solutions in society Waste management and recycling therefore reviews all equipment twice a If travelling is necessary the preferred The international think tank GeSi Netcompany is dedicated when it year, making sure that the stock is optitransportation method is determined (Global E-Sustainability Initiative) esticomes to preserving the environment mised. All outdated equipment that is by the infrastructure of the locations mates that digital technology can have and has a number of internal proceno longer suitable for use is either sold, where the employees are travelling a ‘transformational’ effect on achieving dures to secure sustainable waste recycled or properly disposed of in from and to, considering both the the UN Sustainable Development management and reduction of accordance with Netcompany’s princienvironmental impact caused by the Goals2. By providing digital solutions, resource consumption. ples for responsible waste management choice of transportation and the overNetcompany is, through the delivery of and resource consumption. all interests of the company. its services, a driving force behind limAs an example, Netcompany in Poland iting CO₂ emissions in society, alonghas replaced its plastic bottled water In addition to Netcompany’s own initiTo support a more climate and ecoside the rest of the IT industry. with purified tap water and reusable atives to secure responsible waste friendly way of transportation, Netcomcontainers. Netcompany also uses management, Netcompany is also pany in Denmark offers its employees a Via Netcompany’s digital solutions, recycled paper and we try to use as litcurrently working with the municipaltravel card as an alternative to transNetcompany contributes to the fulfiltle paper as possible in our everyday ity of Copenhagen in order to provide portation by car as part of their flexible ment of the UN Sustainable Developoperations. In general, Netcompany a digital waste management system. benefits agreements. Bicycles are also ment Goals by providing, inter alia, also has a low consumption of office The solution provides the citizens with made available for use when attending communications-, information mansupplies, since the majority of activian overview of when and how often meetings nearby and in general, Netagement-, and various self-service ties are carried out on computers. the various forms of waste are colcompany’s offices are located in the solutions, which enable people to work lected, along with options to book centre of the city making commute more closely together with fewer As an IT service company, it is imporadditional collections for large items much easier for our many employees. physical boundaries and therefore with tant that our employees have access to of waste, direct communication with a derived positive effect on the clistate-of-the-art IT equipment in order the municipality and a total overview Netcompany’s travel Policy and initiamate. By optimising and digitalising to deliver the best digital solutions. Due of the associated costs. tives within this field ensure uniform workflows for our customers, Netcomto the rapid evolvement of the digital guidelines for all entities within the pany furthermore helps to create sussolutions available on the market, this Travelling group, where Netcompany also in tainable business environments, where means, that IT equipment is more freNetcompany has installed environmengeneral encourages all employees to smarter transport and logistics can be quently outdated within the context of tally friendly tele and video communiminimise transportation that leads to used to provide a great customer serNetcompany’s work, than within the cation solutions at all of Netcompany’s GHG emissions. vice that includes a reduction in pollucontext of other companies work. As a locations, which are used whenever tion and energy consumption. precautionary measure, Netcompany possible as an alternative to travelling. 2 https://gesi.org/research/gesi-digital-with-purpose-full-report Our sustainability strategy Environment 17 ESG Report 2019 Environmental risks Netcompany’s climate impact is, as climate impact. This also goes for the the numbers show, overall quite low risk of our employees not following and it is therefore always a risk that the guidelines of our Travel Policy and our continued efforts in reducing our the guidelines for our waste manageclimate impact lessen over time due to ment, since we will be inclined to a misleading feeling of satisfaction enforce the guidelines and promote with the results. This could possibly new initiatives on an ongoing basis, in lead to an unfavourable effect on Netorder to reduce our emissions as company’s reputation and potentially much as possible from year to year. reduce the incentive for potential and The risk of our employees not followexisting business partners to do busiing our internal policies and guidelines ness with Netcompany. Our commitis also mitigated by an annual demand ment to annually report on our ESG for our employees to read and make activities will, however, seek to reduce themselves familiar with our policies, this risk, as it will continuously encouras all employees have to declare that age us to find new ways to reduce our they have read and understood them. Our sustainability strategy Environment 18 ESG Report 2019 Social It is sometimes easy to get caught up in focusses are becoming increasingly numbers and revenues when measuring relevant, it also contributes to the success of a company. However, employee satisfaction and therefore success is not only measured in numensures a more stable and sustainable bers, it is measured by so much else. business. Social responsibility is one of our absolute core values, and we take As part of this world, we all have a our responsibility very seriously, responsibility to act for the benefit of always looking for ways to increase the common interests of society at our positive influences in society. large. This responsibility is a matter close to heart to all of us working in Netcompany’s activities towards social Netcompany, as we are all invested in responsibility can be divided in to the societies, we operate in and in the both an external and internal responsiwell-being of the people living in them. bility, meaning, the ways that Netcompany respectively affects and influSocial responsibility and a profitable ences the surrounding societies in business are not mutually exclusive, in which the company operates, as well fact, it is quite the opposite. Social as the internal organisation of the awareness not only ensures goodwill company’s employees. with customers, in a time where such In our social activities we focus on the SDG targets no. 4,5,8,9,10,16 and 17 Our sustainability strategy Social 19 ESG Report 2019 OUR SOLUTIONS HELP Netcompany’s influence CITIZENSon THROUGHOUT society THEIR LIFE JOURNEY Sustainable solutions and services For more than 20 years, Netcompany has focused on delivering business critical IT solutions to large Public and Private sector customers to lead and support them in their digital transforEnsuring mation journeys. financing of To peoples’ everyday life the welfare And to the society establishment From the birth of Netcompany’s public sector segment the digital citizen Borger.dk offers end-to-end IT services to cenICI The Building & Agency for Digitisation Until the golden age tral and local goverments, i.e. the Sundhed.dk Over everyone`s Ministry of Housing Registry state and large municipalities and first day of school Taxation BBR Sundhed.dk regions. The projects in the public Family benefits AULA student Studielink sector encompass the delivery of sociATP Neighbor help Social Pension platform (Re)enrolment at ety critical systems, including tax colOBOS ATP KOMBIT colleges and universities lection from citizens and on vehicles, in the Netherlands in Norway payments of public benefits to citizens (e.g. pensions, children/family and property/housing), central registries for companies, properties, employees and public self-service portals relating 1 to public services, including health. integration, customer relationship digitalisation is about how to turn services, we are playing a key role in management and enterprise risk mantechnological development into value striving to support a modern, state-ofNetcompany’s private sector segment agement, artificial intelligence and for the people it affects. the-art, fair and corruption-free offers end-to-end IT services to midinformation management, very often administration of the societies we and large-sized businesses as well as in combination with each other. Today, we are an integral part of the operate in. membership organisations, such as Danish society. In fact, Netcompany trade unions. We deliver business critiAt Netcompany, we believe that with covers almost every citizen in DenIn the following section of the report, cal IT solutions covering various areas new technology and digitalisation we mark from cradle to grave having an you can read about some of Netcomsuch as e-commerce, billing, docucan make a difference and positively enormous effect on the individual’s pany’s solutions which have supported ment and case management, system affect many people’s lives. For us, everyday lives. By providing these society with digital solutions. Our sustainability strategy Social 20 ESG Report 2019 Netcompany's solutions true content exercise in gathering, This year, Denmark’s new school comstructuring and making available all munication platform, Aula, was manner of information under one launched. Aula is the biggest digital umbrella. project ever undertaken by Denmark’s municipalities and is a single IT soluWe believe that supporting education, tion facilitating interaction between equality, economic growth, health and care providers, schools and homes. It the environment is key to building a is influencing the everyday life of more more sustainable future. Netcompany than 2 million users. The aim of Aula is will continue to serve millions of peoto create a space for better communiple in both the private and public seccation between the institution and the tor, showing how digital transformahome. Better communication can help tion can create strong, sustainable to support more efficient learning and societies, successful companies and greater well-being in schools and day better lives for all of us. care institutions. Taxations Oslo municipality has high ambitions It is deeply grounded in Netcompany’s for a digitalised society, introducing values to act as a responsible partner modern digital public services on an in society in all relations and ensuring ongoing basis. Oslo municipality equal opportunities for all. We feel chose Netcompany for several framestrongly that we as an industry work projects, including the developleader – should lead the way in changment of new and optimisation of existing our society for the better, and it is ing digital public services, application important to contribute to the social maintenance solutions, operations and welfare and benefits of the societies in integration to existing platforms. which we operate. Through several years, Netcompany A prerequisite for the welfare benefits has been responsible for developing in any society is that sufficient funding and maintaining the portal borger.dk, is available typically accumulated in enabling citizens to access important the means of direct and indirect taxes. information. Borger.dk targets all citiWe have a transparent tax disclosure zens in Denmark with a full view of policy, firmly disassociating ourselves available relevant and important inforfrom the use of tax havens and other mation to all citizens, whatever their methods of tax evasion. The Executive age and requirements. The project is a Management are fully taxable in Our sustainability strategy Social 21 ESG Report 2019 Denmark, where we were founded and program. Fundamental to the proNations’ Declaration of Human Rights integrity in all the company’s business where the vast majority of Netcomgramme is a customer feedback systhrough several policies including our dealings and relationships, Netcompany has been built over the last 20 tem. The customer satisfaction survey Code of Conduct and Anti-slavery Polpany has implemented an Anti-Slavery years. The broader partner group pay is conducted on an annual basis and icy, just as we have implemented interPolicy, making employees aware of the income taxes in the countries where Netcompany tracks progress on its nal guidelines on non-discrimination issue of modern slavery and notifying they live and work and as a company Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is and protection against harassment. them of Netcompany’s whistle-blower we pay corporate income taxes and assessed on a scale from -100 to +100. system where any violations or susother indirect taxes in all the countries This year, we received an NPS of +22 Netcompany wishes to secure the pected violations can be reported in which we operate. in our annual customer satisfaction human rights of every employee anonymously. Netcompany has to survey – a slight decrease compared throughout the organisation. This also date not received any reports through In 2019, Netcompany has paid more with +26 in 2018. includes the employees of our the whistle-blower system concerning than DKK 120m in corporate income sub-contractors and business partners. the misuse of labour forces. taxes. In addition, Netcompany has Generally speaking, a Net Promoter Netcompany’s whistle-blower system paid indirect taxes such as VAT and Score above 20 is considered to be has been put in place for this reason, other similar taxes in excess of DKK very good. We believe that the opinion so that people can report any suspi400m. Finally, the more than 2,500 of our customers serves as a powerful cions or knowledge of any mistreatemployees of Netcompany have paid indicator in determining the success ment either within Netcompany or more than DKK 400m in personal and performance of our solutions in within the organisations that Netcomincome taxes based on the salaries the market. Going forward, we will pany collaborates with. they have generated through their continue to translate the learnings employment with Netcompany. from the survey and incorporate the Labour findings into our engagement strateNetcompany always operates under In total the Netcompany Group has gies for all our customers. the highest ethics when using labour contributed with more than DKK forces and has a zero-tolerance 900m in direct and indirect taxes in Human rights approach to the use of child labour, as 2019 to the societies in the countries Netcompany’s approach to human well as forced and compulsory labour. we are located in. We take pride in this rights is strongly rooted in our core valThese ethics are also embodied in the and, based on our continued growth ues and ethical standards of being a Netcompany Code of Conduct and aspirations, we expect to be able to people-oriented company. It is of great Netcompany fully supports the Concontinue contributing more in the importance to us that everyone we vention on the Rights of the Child, future. meet and get acquainted with in our stating that all children have the right business dealings is treated with the to leisure and education. Customer satisfaction human dignity and respect that all In 2016, Netcompany implemented a human beings deserve. As such, we Demonstrating Netcompany’s comcustomer experience management have also chosen to follow the United mitment to acting ethically and with 3 https://www.retently.com/blog/good-net-promoter-score/ Our sustainability strategy Social 22 ESG Report 2019 Digital Dogme In general, we see a threatening lack Most importantly, they have a high of digital competencies in society, level of professionalism and motivawhich is one of our biggest chaltion to develop their digital skills. lenges. Most companies are keenly Today, there are a total of 29 leading aware that the shortcoming is already companies engaged in Digital Dogme concrete and tangible and the consewith more than 12,000 registered quences are significant, as the lack of employees and we encourage all busidigital amplification may lead to lost nesses to take part of the initiative, so growth and competitiveness. To prethat together we may do everything in vent this issue going forward Netcomour power to create the digital compepany initiated Digital Dogme together tencies that are so vital for the further with three other notable Danish comdevelopment of our society. panies in 2018. Digital Dogme is a movement initiated In December 2019, Digital Dogme and driven by Denmark’s largest comreceived a funding of DKK 7.39 panies with a vision of cultivating million from the Danish Industry employees’ digital skills within their Foundation, which will help to own organisations. establish it as an independent non-profit organisation. In addiThe aim for Digital Dogme is to create tion to this, the funds from the more digitally skilled employees in Industry Foundation will also order to take advantage of the vast open up new opportunities for possibilities in the new digital era and Digital Dogme to further develop come out as winners both as individuan online knowledge-sharing als, businesses and as societies. The platform and build targeted and employees that are following Digital structured training courses for Dogme’s learning programs have a continuous development of digiwide variety of educational backtal competencies. grounds, interests and aspirations. Our sustainability strategy Social 23 ESG Report 2019 Netcompany’s responsibility towards employees Working in Netcompany In order to secure a positive start for Net Promoter Score (eNPS), which is Employee Net Promoter Score Netcompany keeps experiencing a our many new employees, we have assessed on a scale from -100 to +100. high demand for the company’s serimplemented a buddy programme 50 48 vices, which is highly attributed to the where all new employees are paired In 2017, we received an (eNPS) score 42 work of our extremely skilled and with an experienced employee in Netof +48 and in 2018 a score of +36. The 40 hardworking employees, as well as the company, making sure that everyone decrease in our rating in this period is 36 growing need for IT solutions in sociis properly introduced to Netcompany mainly attributed to the company 30 ety today. The continued and rising and quickly integrated in the company acquisition we made in the United need for our services has resulted in, both professionally and socially. Kingdom with a Vietnamese subsidiary and is continuously resulting in, the at the end of 2017, as the integration 20 generation of hundreds of new jobs We also have a mentorship scheme of different organisations always every year. Just over the past year we where our employees are paired with a imposes challenges for the employees 10 have welcomed more than 500 new personal mentor (a senior employee), both in regard to new company culemployees to Netcompany resulting in who also helps with both professional tures and structures, as well as gen0 our number of average FTE’s to and personal growth, as the mentor eral uncertainties in regard to new and 2017 2018 2019 increase from 1.861 to 2.293, also havfollows the mentee's development changed work processes. In 2019, we ing a positive effect on the unemploythroughout the mentee's career in saw an increase in our eNPS score ment rates in the societies where we Netcompany. again to +42, which corresponds to Work environment operate. the organisational integration that has Health is an integral part of a person’s Employee satisfaction taken place over the years. overall well-being and life happiness. Our employees are our most important As the average person spends more and valued resource. They are the ones This year’s results show a positive than 90,000 hours of their life workthat steadily take us into the future, development in our level of employee ing, a tremendous amount of time is which is why their everyday work satissatisfaction and we are proud to spent at the workplace. This leads to faction is also of great importance to report that, for the second year in a great responsibilities for all employers 500 us and something we take very serirow4 , we’ve been ranked as one of the to secure a healthy and safe work ously. As part of our efforts to remain top ranking companies in the IT indusenvironment for their employees. At an attractive workplace with a positive try in regard to employee satisfaction. Netcompany we take this responsibilemployee morale, we conduct an ity very seriously, as we want our annual employee satisfaction survey employees to remain active and connew employees in 2019 tracking our results in the employee tinue to be employable in the labour 4 https://www.computerworld.dk/art/249715/disse-foerende-danske-it-virksomheder-harOur sustainability strategy Social 24 de-gladeste-medarbejdere-hent-hele-computerworlds-store-jobglaede-magasin ESG Report 2019 market for as long as they can and employees. Despite our size, we don’t Our learning programme, Netcompany want to. focus on hierarchy and encourage Academy, has been an essential part everyone to be approachable across all of Netcompany since 2006, and is a We believe that there is a strong corlevels. During the day, we work for our dedicated and highly specialised relation between job satisfaction and customers but outside of working employee training programme. It is sickness absence, which is also hours, we have many different events designed to support rapid and focused reflected in our job satisfaction score and activities – all arranged by our career and skill development from and our sickness absence ratings from After Dark committee which is run by a consultant, senior and manager roles, 2017-2019. group of volunteer employees. to principal and ultimately partner. In 2018, our average sickness absence It is a culture and a community that Netcompany Academy's training rate rose from 2,9% in 2017 to 3.5%, we are proud of as we believe that we courses are developed by experienced which coincides with the company perform our best when we know each company executives, managers and acquisition in the United Kingdom and other and have fun together. system architects. The courses are Vietnam. In 2019, the absence rate fell continuously evaluated and updated again by 0.8% landing at an average Our After Dark has a wide spectrum of to reflect changes in technologies, of 2.7%, which also corresponds to the offers. We have sports teams for runmethodologies and tools. The mandaincrease of our ratings in employee ning, badminton, soccer, climbing etc. tory courses ensure, that all employsatisfaction the same year. For comWe also have clubs for those interees receive uniform training, tailored parison, the average sickness absence ested in games, gaming, cultural expeexactly to the company’s project manpercentage per employee for corporariences and much more. We believe agement model and methodology. tions and organisations in Denmark in that social activities help us to mainOptional training sessions, external 2018 was at 2.9%, demonstrating that tain a high employee satisfaction, a courses and conferences are also Netcompany is just below average. low sickness absence and create unity offered at manager level to compleacross projects, teams and physical ment the mandatory element of the By providing a healthy work environlocations. Netcompany Academy. We also offer ment and by offering a range of health all employees the opportunity to parpromoting initiatives, we will continue Netcompany Academy ticipate in industry, vendor, or methto work towards further reductions in Being a large employer and a vital odology certification pro­grammes. our employee’s absence ratings. part of educating young and senior people digitally, we strive internally to Our standard is five training days (40 After Dark be market leading in terms of creating hours) per year and at the same time, a strong social community a great working environment with we pay for certifications, exams, etc. At Netcompany we take great responrespect for the individual and with the that the employee chooses in his/her sibility in creating a strong social comaim of establishing a strong learning spare time. During 2019, our Academy munity and pride ourselves in being platform for everyone involved. offered 17 different courses across our one of the leading examples for the locations and had a total of 2,051 promotion of social engagement of our employees attending. Our sustainability strategy Social 25 ESG Report 2019 Diversity Our employees and their well-being In Netcompany, it is experience and are very important to us, and it is qualification that determines the saltherefore essential for us that we can ary level and equal pay is given for offer an attractive workplace where equal work regardless of gender or everyone feels included and appreciany other unjust reason that does not ated for who they are. reflect the true qualifications of our employees. For the same reason, As such, we always strive to realise the equal terms are also given to all who positive potential inherent in having have the same experience, seniority employees with different educational and internal ratings e.g. when gradubackgrounds, genders and cultural ates come working for us fresh out of affiliations as diversity is an important the universities. factor for the development of new and innovative solutions. In order to Spotlight on gender balance achieve this, we perpetually work to There are areas within the diversity ensure equal opportunities for all and agenda where we – and society at promote diversity and inclusion large – need to improve, and one of through transparent recruitment prothem is in the lack of women in the cesses, talent development and unitech and IT industry. versity collaborations, while at the same time fostering a corporate culDuring 2019, Netcompany participated ture of inclusiveness. As concrete in several activities in order to attract examples, our job postings always more women into the IT industry, and encourage all candidates to apply, we can happily report that we are seeregardless of gender, race, age and ing a slow but steady increase in our cultural background. Via the project number of female employees, rising Digital Dogme we also take people from 17% in 2017 to 19% in 2019. A from other educational backgrounds general increase in women in the other than IT and upscale their digital industry has also been confirmed in skills and abilities, creating new IT-talDenmark, where the Danish IT Univerents and opportunities for them to sity has reported that from 2016 – further their careers. 2018 there has been an 9% increase in the number of women admitted to the university’s bachelor educations. Our sustainability strategy Social 26 ESG Report 2019 In Denmark nearly 30 % of the female participants at the IT camps have subsequently applied to an IT education. 122 events for students Some of our specific activities in 2019 Danish non-profit organisation, CodLooking at the specific student envitowards gender diversity included our ing Pirates, whose purpose is to create ronment we have held 122 events for participation in the national campaign awareness and engage children in the students, 39 guest lectures, 20 educaday “Girls’ day in science”, where digital world from a young age, ensurtional sponsorships, 25 IT-student netyoung women and girls from preing that both girls and boys are introworks and several partnerships activischool to college were invited by Netduced to the digital world and its ties across the countries we operate 39 company in Denmark to meet some of many possibilities from an early age. in. All together we have reached thouNetcompany’s female employees and sands of students throughout the year learn more about the job possibilities In Norway, Netcompany also hosted a motivating their interest for making a in the IT industry women in Tech event for 140 women difference in the IT industry. in the Tech industry and a Girl Tech guest lectures We also held several guest lectures at Fest, which was a coding event for We believe that our activities and Danish universities for female software young girls around 10 years of age. efforts in 2019 have contributed to students, which Netcompany does and supported the focus on increasing every year. Furthermore, Netcompany also spona general interest for people to get sored the Ada and Oda network in involved in the digital world and seek $ At the People’s Democratic Festival on Norway and the Danish initiative IT employment within the industry, as Bornholm in Denmark, Netcompany camp for Girls in Denmark, to reinwell as providing more focus on the was represented by CEO André force our support for more women in lack of women in the tech industry. 20 Rogaczewski, who participated as a the tech industry. In Denmark nearly panellist in the public debate about 30% of the female participants at the women in tech. IT camps have subsequently applied to an IT education according to the Netcompany also continued to make Danish IT University5, reinforcing the donations and general support to the importance of our work. educational sponsorships https://www.itu.dk/om-itu/koensdiversitet-blandt-studerende 27 5 Our sustainability strategy Social ESG Report 2019 Social risks Netcompany is operating in a market challenges could potentially lead to an with Digital Dogme, which we truly with an increasing need for highly unwanted cap on Netcompany’s revebelieve will become an imperative part qualified IT professionals. Unfortunue, not because we aren’t able to of meeting the future and increasing nately, it is becoming increasingly difhandle the amount of assignments in a needs of IT qualified personnel. ficult to hire talented personnel with fully competent and responsible manrelevant educational background, simner, but simply because we could risk Despite our greatest attempts to the ply because the number of IT gradunot having access to the required contrary, we are always at risk when it ates each year is not large enough to workforce. For the same reason, we comes to the compliance of our cover the market needs. Furthermore, are greatly invested in maintaining a employees and our business partners female interest in the industry is still high level of employee satisfaction, in terms of violations of applicable rules low, imposing a risk for the loss of while at the same time generating an and regulations, including our internal many of the advantages of gender increased interest in employment policies such as our Anti-Slavery Policy. diversity. within the IT industry for all and in The consequences of such violations particular for women. We will continue could result in loss of goodwill and In Netcompany, we understand that to care for our employees both prorelated losses in revenue, financial our employees are key to maintaining fessionally and personally through our costs and corporate liability. In order to our position and one of our greatest Netcompany Academy and mentor prevent and mitigate these risks as risks is, as a consequence, the lack of programmes, our social activities and much as possible, we have implequalified employees to support the our general employment conditions, mented a whistle-blower system, which increasing workload, as well as the just as we will continue to promote the makes it possible for all to report any lack of diversity that is so immensely great and many advantages of suspicions or knowledge of illegalities important to the development of new employment within the industry. In without fear of repercussions. and innovative solutions. These addition, we will continue our work Our sustainability strategy Social 28 ESG Report 2019 Governance Transparency and constructive stakemeans, that we are accountable for holder dialogue are key to Netcomour surroundings and for the way we pany together with sound decisionrun our business. For us, corporate making processes and controls for the governance is a key factor in this matbenefit of Netcompany and our staketer, as it sets out the guidelines for the holders. management of the company and ensures the coalignment of what Trust is a crucial factor in all business sometimes may be different interests. dealings, and in Netcompany we It is key in our everyday management, understand that trust is something and we believe that a high level of corthat must be earned over time and, porate governance is essential to among others, by being transparent. accomplish Netcompany’s goals whilst For the same reason, it is important to at the same time remaining sustainaus, that our investors, and anyone else ble over time. Netcompany has therewho may be interested in our corpofore developed a number of policies rate dealings, can access the informathat are aligned with international tion they need to fully get to know standards and applicable laws. Netcompany as a company. In Netcompany, we are committed to being accountable and responsible to all relevant stakeholders. This also In our governance activities we focus on the SDG target no. 16 Our sustainability strategy Governance 29 ESG Report 2019 Management Structure board committees: Audit Committee, The Audit Committee meets at least Netcompany has a two-tier manageDirectors is intended to ensure that Remuneration Committee and Nomifour times a year. ment structure, which is comprised of the Board of Directors has a diverse nation Committee. the Board of Directors and the Execucompetency profile enabling the Remuneration Committee tive Management. The Board of DirecBoard of Directors to perform its The committees perform preparatory The Remuneration Committee contors supervises the work of the Execuduties in the best possible manner. All tasks and make recommendations to sists of two members of the Board of tive Management and is responsible five members of the Board of Directhe Board of Directors, who in turn will Directors, Juha Christensen (Chairfor the overall and strategic managetors are considered independent take the final decision on subjects at man) and Bo Rygaard and its purpose ment and proper organisation of the under the Recommendations on Corhand. The main tasks and duties for is to assist the Board of Directors by company’s activities, while the Execuporate Governance. The Board of each committee are set out in sepapreparing and presenting proposals tive Management is responsible for the Directors meets at least five times a rate committee charters. The charters and recommendations on matters company’s day-to-day management. year and holds extraordinary meetings are reviewed, and if deemed approprirelated to the remuneration of the The division of responsibility between when required. ate updated, and approved by the company’s Board of Directors and the Board of Directors and the ExecuBoard of Directors annually. Executive Management. tive Management is set out in the During 2019, the Board of Directors Rules of Procedures for the Board of conducted an self-evaluation. The The members of the board commitThe Remuneration Committee meets Directors and Executive Management evaluation included among others tees, including the Committee Chairat least two times a year. Instructions. effectiveness, performance, achieveman, are appointed by the Board of ments and composition of the Board Directors among its own members. Nomination Committee Board of Directors and Executive of Directors, including an evaluation of The Nomination Committee consists Management the performance of the individual Audit Committee of two members of the Board of DirecThe Board of Directors of Netcommembers of the Board of Directors as The Audit Committee consists of three tors, Juha Christensen (Chairman) and pany Group A/S currently consists of well as the collaboration with the members of the Board of Directors, Bo Rygaard and its purpose is to assist five members. Executive Management. Pernille Fabricius (Chairman), Scanes the Board of Directors by preparing Bentley and Robbert Kuppens and its and presenting decision proposals and According to the Articles of AssociaThe members of the Executive Manpurpose is to assist the Board of recommendations on matters related tion, the Board of Directors must conagement currently consist of the CEO, Directors with the oversight of the to the composition of the company’s sist of at least three and not more than COO and CFO. Together, they form financial and statutory audit matters Board of Directors and Executive Manseven members elected at the general the management registered with the and internal control and risk manageagement, including the nomination of meeting. The Board of Directors Danish Business Authority. ment systems of the Netcompany candidates and evaluation of the comappoints a Chairman and a Deputy group. Further, the Audit Committee position of the Board of Directors and Chairman among its members. Each Board Committees supervises the whistle-blowing proceExecutive Management. member is elected for a one-year In order to support the Board of dures and complaints, the external term, and members may be re-elected. Directors in Netcompany Group A/S, auditor’s independence and the proThe Nomination Committee meets at The composition of the Board of Netcompany has established three cedure for election of external auditor. least two times a year. Our sustainability strategy Governance 30 ESG Report 2019 Attendance on board meetings Whistle-blower In 2019, the Board of Directors met 11 meeting held in Netcompany Group In 2017, Netcompany implemented a The whistle-blower system is an indetimes, where three of the meetings A/S, just as there was a 100% attendwhistle-blower system, with the purpendent and autonomous channel were conducted as telephone conferance rate at every ordinary board pose of providing a system by which and its independence is secured by ences. The members of the Board of meeting. to report serious offences or sususing an external law firm (Plesner) Directors in Netcompany Group A/S, pected serious offences that may to receive reports submitted. The law all understand and live up to the In 2018, one board member was preimpact Netcompany as a whole or firm forwards any reports to the essential obligations of their posivented from attending on two occathe life or health of an individual, with Chairman of the Audit Committee tions, which is reflected in the high sions and two other board members full anonymity. who investigates the matter promptly attendance rate of the board memwere prevented from attending on and takes appropriate action. bers in the board meetings. As such, one occasion each. During 2017, only The whistle-blower system allows only two board members were preone board member was prevented persons related to Netcompany, such In 2019, two reports were submitted vented from attending one meeting from attending one board meeting as employees, members of the Execvia the whistle-blower system. Howeach in 2019. Other than that, there that year. utive Management and Board of ever, the external law firm assessed was full attendance at every board Directors, auditors, lawyers, suppliers the reports to be out of scope. and other business partners of Netcompany, to report serious offences or suspected serious offences. Recommendations on Corporate Governance As a listed company, Netcompany According to the Danish Financial observes the Recommendations on Statements Act section 107b, a stateCorporate Governance, which are ment on corporate governance for based on the comply-or-explain printhe financial year is prepared. This Netcompany fully complies ciple, which makes it legitimate for a statement forms part of the Managecompany to explain why it does not ment’s Review and can be viewed at: with 47 out of 47 Recommendations comply with the recommendations. Netcompany fully complies with 47 https://www.netcompany.com/int/ on Corporate Governance out of the 47 recommendations. Investor-Relations/Governance Our sustainability strategy Governance 31 ESG Report 2019 Gender diversity at board and management level Netcompany’s ESG report includes the Results and development: the time being as the board of direcResults and development: statutory corporate social responsibilWe always seek the most qualified tors has the diversity and skills needed Even though women are still highly ity statement on the underrepresented members of the Board of Directors for the moment. This also means that underrepresented in the IT industry, gender, cf. section 99b of the Danish with due regard to the need for diverthe target of two female board memNetcompany is happy to report that Financial Statements Act. In addition sity. The members and their internal bers has not been possible to achieve there has been an increase in the numto Netcompany Group A/S, Netcompositions are chosen and assigned by this year. In the upcoming years, Netber of women in management posipany A/S also have an obligation to objective criteria’s such as relevant company will continue to evaluate and tions in recent years. The number of report on gender diversity, cf. section experience, education, Netcompany’s assess the composition of the Board women in Netcompany’s management 99b of the Danish Financial Statebusiness strategies and sustainability, and look for the best qualified candilevels has increased from 9% in 2017 ments Act. This section describes the and the overall composition of the dates to accede to the Board of Directo 10% in 2018 and 12% in 2019. development in Netcompany A/S and Board of Directors, hereunder the tors while paying due attention to the Netcompany Group A/S. overall complementation of the indiset targets and the need for diversity Activities in 2019 towards gender vidual members inter partes. in top management. diversity in top management Gender balance at board level In the summer of 2019, Netcompany Netcompany Group A/S recognises In 2019, two new board members were Gender balance was represented by our CEO André the value of diversity and has set a elected at the general meeting and at management level Rogaczewski at the People’s Demotarget of two female members of the the extraordinary general meeting at In Netcompany, we want to unfold the cratic Festival in Denmark, where he Board of Directors to be achieved by Netcompany Group A/S. The choice full potential of all our employees and participated as a panellist in the politi2022. The Board of Directors in Netwas, among others, based on level of ensure that both men and women cal discussion about how we as a socicompany Group A/S currently conexperience, overall qualifications and have the same opportunities for ety can make it more attractive for sists of a total of five members elected in-depth knowledge of the Dutch and obtaining leading positions within the women to become part of top manby the shareholders, where one memUK market. After the elections at the company. We are therefore keenly agement in the IT industry. ber is already female. general meetings, the Board of Direcaware of the need to only give weight tors consisted of five board members, to objective criteria when it comes to Being a visible part of the public and Netcompany A/S fulfils the requirewhere it previously consisted of six determining the position of our political debate is one of many key ments for equal representation in the members. Based on the board evaluaemployees, as well as securing equal factors to changing some of the perBoard of Directors as one out of four tion in 2019, it has since been decided, pay for work of equal value and offerceptions about women in manageboard members is female. that a Board of Directors consisting of ing educational and personal support ment, which is why Netcompany is five board members is adequate for to all employees who may need it. also frequently speaking out about the Our sustainability strategy Governance 32 ESG Report 2019 topic in the media. As part of this approach, Netcompany was also represented at the Women’s Board Awards 2019, where CEO André Rogaczewski was one of the key speakers on stage recognising and promoting gender diversity in management. Gender diversity, and diversity in general, is one of Netcompany’s absolute core values, and we will continue our best efforts in the future trying to attract more competent and diverse members to the management of Netcompany. Our sustainability strategy Governance 33 ESG Report 2019 Remuneration of Executive Data protection Management and employees and privacy The remuneration of the Executive Salary increase in 2020. Netcompany is a major supplier on Management in Netcompany is deterboth public and private IT projects mined with due consideration to the 8 which entails the handling of large remuneration of the rest of the 7% amounts of personal data as a data 7 organisation’s employees, taking into processor. As such, Netcompany 6 account: the general salary level holds a great responsibility in securwithin the company group, the 5 ing the data subjects rights to priresponsibilities and workload defined vacy, and in acknowledgement of this 4 in the different positions, the general fact, Netcompany continues to sup3 market standards and standards 2.5% port and encourage the increased within comparable companies. 2 focus on data protection. 1 Netcompany was introduced to the Even before the GDPR entered into public market on 7 June 2018. As 0 force on 25 May 2018, Netcompany Client facing Executive a result, Netcompany’s Executive employees Management worked for the protection of data and Management received an increase in personal data. Security of data has their total remuneration package, so always been of the outmost imporit became equivalent to market tance to Netcompany, and Netcomstandards. pany has a number of security policies and procedures that follow the In 2020, the Executive Management international security standards ISO will receive a 2.5% increase in salary. 27001 and ISO 27002. Furthermore, Client facing employees in NetcomNetcompany has also begun the pany, except partners and principals, implementation of the new internawill in comparison receive a salary tional security standard ISO 27701 increase in 2020 corresponding to an published in August 2019, which average of 7% per employee. In 2019, focuses on GDPR compliance within the average salary increase for client the context of an organisation, both facing employees was 7%, while the as a data controller and as a data Executive Management salaries was processor. not adjusted. Our sustainability strategy Governance 34 ESG Report 2019 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption In recent years there has become an parties allowing Netcompany to increase in the level of attention given ensure that all amounts leaving the to bribery and corruption in our socicompany can be tracked, and that a ety, and in the IT industry where there single person cannot withdraw liquidiNetcompany has not received have been some unfortunate and pubties from the company. lic cases. Netcompany fully recognises any reports in 2019 or previhow corruption and bribery underIn addition to the Anti-bribery and mine a society as well as a business Anti-corruption Policy, Netcompany ously, concerning corruption and Netcompany does not tolerate any type of bribery or corruption in also operates under the Netcompany Code of Conduct, which declares that or bribery, among employees any shape or form. As such, Netcompany has implemented an Anti-bribery board members, employees, agents, suppliers, consultants and business or subsidiaries. and Anti-corruption Policy that propartners are obliged to comply with hibits all forms of bribery and corrupapplicable laws and regulations in the tion and sets out strict guidelines for performance of their duties, and in In order to further minimise the risks of the offering of gifts and hospitality, in accordance with good business pracbribery and corruption, Netcompany accordance with governing law. tices, values and ethical guidelines. has implemented a whistle-blower system in which employees, members Since Netcompany delivers a lot of its The Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption of the Board of Directors, Executive services on high-valued projects faciliPolicy – as well as Netcompany’s Code Management, auditors, lawyers, supplitated by public authorities, the of Conduct – is mandatory reading for ers and other business partners of the Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Polall employees as part of the onboardcompany can report serious offences icy raises special awareness to this ing programme. Once a year, each or suspected serious offences. Reports area and the risks associated with it. employee is required to confirm that may be submitted anonymously, and Furthermore, the Anti-bribery and they have read and understood the they are investigated by an external Anti-corruption Policy implements policy. law firm. systematic controls to ensure that all expenses are attached to an appendix and approved by two independent Our sustainability strategy Governance 35 ESG Report 2019 Governance risks Due to the large and increasing numcorporate liability and reputational ber of employees, compliance with damage. We are doing everything that internal policies, such as our Privacy we can to prevent any discrepancies, policies and Anti-corruption and and our internal policies are, as an Anti-bribery Policy, as well as compliexample, a part of the mandatory ance with general rules and legislation, reading that all employees are poses a risk for the company as it is required to adhere to on an ongoing never possible to completely monitor basis, and must review at least once a every movement of the employees. year, where everyone is required to The same challenges arise in our dealconfirm that they have read and ings with our business partners and in understood our current policies. Furour efforts to prevent e.g. slavery and thermore, we have implemented a the general exploitation of labour whistle-blower system, which is govforces in our supply chain. Any violaerned by an external law firm, where tion of our policies or the legislation reports of misconduct can be could severely harm Netcompany in reported without fear of any repercusthe form of both financial costs, sion or other disciplinary actions. Our sustainability strategy Governance 36 ESG Report 2019 ESG in the future This year has been the first year that We expect that our ESG activities will Netcompany has officially reported on continue to improve in the coming all the company’s ESG activities in one years. report. It has allowed us to disclose in great details how our core values and Together we will keep working towards our commitment to being a responsithe fulfilment of the UN’s sustainable ble player in society have manifested goals and try to create a better tomorthemselves in our everyday work and row for us all. in the many initiatives that our employees and the company have taken. ESG in the future 37 ESG Report 2019 Company ­information Netcompany Group A/S Grønningen 17 1270 Copenhagen Denmark CVR no. 39488914 Tel.: +45 7013 1440 E-mail: info@netcompany.com 38 ESG Report 2019
