20192018 Annual Report Annual Report Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Table of Contents 2019 Financial Statements 6 8 82 89 Message from Wolters Kluwer Consolidated Notes to the the CEO at a Glance in 2019 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 10 12 178 180 Value Creation Report of the Company Notes to the Company Model Executive Board Financial Statements Financial Statements 12 Improving Lives Today and for the Future 20 Transformative Innovations 23 30 Embracing People and Society Our Organization 187 195 32 Key Figures Other Information Other Information 34 Operational and Financial Review 45 2020 Full-Year Outlook on the Financial 195 Report of the Wolters Kluwer Statements 196 Preference Shares Foundation Wolters Kluwer Shares and Bonds 46 64 187 Independent Auditor’s Report 204 206 Five-Year Key Figures Glossary 194 Articles of Association Provisions Corporate Report of the Governing Profit Appropriation 207 Contact Information Governance and Supervisory Board Risk Management 64 Supervisory Board Report 68 Remuneration Report 46 Corporate Governance 51 Risk Management 61 Statements by the Executive Board 62 Executive Board and Supervisory Board 4 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 5 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Digital & services Recurring revenues 89% of total revenues, up 6% organically 78% of total revenues, up 5% organically Message from the CEO approach to capital allocation, enabling the right levels of investment to keep our current products healthy, while Commitment to society at large We are guided by the principles of the United Nations working hard to innovate and launch new products and Global Compact and acknowledge the importance of the services. This success has helped fuel the expansion of our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that the United I am pleased to report that we It was a year in which we made significant progress dividend and share buyback program in 2019. Nations has set for 2030. With millions of customers on improving systems and infrastructure to support and thousands of employees around the world, our sustained 4% organic revenue growth operational agility. Scaling our expert solutions and adding Our transformation around expert solutions brings domain commitment to the SDGs is brought to life through our in 2019. We delivered an improvement value to our information products will provide a strong expertise together with technology, which comes to life efforts to make impact every day. In 2019, we continued foundation for 2020. We are committed to creating value in solutions like UpToDate Advanced, CCH Axcess iQ, to be included in leading sustainability rankings, such as in adjusted operating profit margin, for our customers, employees, investors, and society, as OneSumX, and Enablon – some of our most cutting-edge FTSE4Good, STOXX Europe Sustainability, and EURO STOXX overcoming a challenging reflected in our 2019 performance. Our ability to deliver products on the market. Working side-by-side with our ESG Leaders 50, which we are proud of and reflects that sustainable returns year-after-year illustrates a central customers, furthering our deep domain expertise, and commitment. comparable. Digital & services grew aspect of our strategy to enable customers to navigate a steadfast approach to innovation is how we intend to 6% organically, representing 89% of change. Through our efforts, we are actively shaping the create long-term value for all our stakeholders. In the midst of an ever more complex landscape across the future of work, both within the organizations we serve – via globe, I am confident that our mission will continue to fuel total revenues. Recurring revenues our expert solutions that embed advanced technologies Creating an even better place to work our organization. We will charge ahead to make progress accounted for 78% of total revenues like artificial intelligence – and within our walls at Wolters The diversity of our teams is the solid foundation on which in the future, grounded in our commitments to our Kluwer. Our advantage in the markets we operate in, is we can deliver sustained value; it is a driver of innovation stakeholders, while staying in lockstep with our customers. and grew 5% organically. our ability to combine domain expertise and advanced and results within Wolters Kluwer. I am constantly technology, which maximizes local knowledge within global inspired by the amount of employee engagement our Thank you to our shareholders, customers, partners, and platforms to provide our customers with solutions. teams generate every day, as reflected in our increasing employees, who play an integral role in enabling our engagement score, which is above the norm for highorganization to deliver impact. We wouldn’t be able to Grow further as an expert solutions company performing companies. External recognition like 2019 advance without the trust that you all continue to invest in Our three-year strategy, Accelerating Our Value, is our Forbes America’s Best Employer for Women and America’s our organization. roadmap to make deep impact. I’m confident we’re up to Best Employers for Diversity validates our efforts to the challenge at the start of a new decade. 2019 focused continue fostering an inclusive company culture where we on laying the groundwork to grow our expert solutions, attract, develop, and retain high-performing, productive, advance our deep domain expertise, and drive operational and diverse talent. agility, including the roll out of a new global HR platform. We stepped up investment in our digital information Nancy McKinstry products, such as Ovid and our European legal research CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board solutions, to enhance their content, functionality, and user Wolters Kluwer interface and to add capabilities that leverage artificial intelligence. Investors have recognized our successful 6 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 7 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Wolters Kluwer at a Glance in 2019 Transformation Digital & services 2019 Financial highlights €4.6 23.6% €807 services print digital 89% billion adjusted operating million adjusted revenues profit margin free cash flow expert solutions of total revenues, up 6% organically 4.3% 11.8% 78% 2003 2014 2016 2019 PORTFOLIO 180+ Our Serving customers in organic return on recurring revenues, revenue growth invested capital up 5% organically includes: UpToDate, Sentri7, TeamMate, countries. Operations CCH Axcess, CT Corporation, OneSumX, in 40+ countries 99% Enablon, and eVision 8%-10% of our employees 183-YEAR A rich completed the Annual In 2019, the share price increased 26% Compliance Training € of total revenues invested 260 70 heritage of strong values, deep domain in new and enhanced knowledge, innovation, and a continuous 60 products focus on the customer suppliers committed to our 50 Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent standard 40 100% Diversity 30 20 43% 50% 75% of major data center 10 suppliers certified 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 according to ISO/IEC 27001 19,000 female female female Wolters Kluwer Supervisory Executive division AEX (rebased) EURO STOXX Media (rebased) Board Board CEOs MSCI Europe Commercial & Professional Services (rebased) employees worldwide 8 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 9 Table of contents Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Our purpose Our values Deliver deep impact Focus on Make it Aim high Win as when it matters most customer better and deliver a team success Value Creation Model Resources Business activities Impact • €4.6bn revenues in professional • Efforts and skills of Human information, software solutions, 19,000 employees Talent Enriching & Fostering and services Customers Strong Brand • Enabling efficient, effective, and accurate decision-making • 78% recurring Customer Talent • €2.4bn equity Financial Retention Management • €3.1bn gross debt Capital Grow • €1.9bn in compensation Expert Solutions • Developing skills, talent, Employees and careers • Promoting diversity Technology & • Global brand Smart Capital Advance Digital Intellectual Allocation Deep Domain Expertise Innovation • Software and content IP Property • Total shareholder return 28% over 2019 Drive Investors • €46m net interest paid to • Actively selected and Business Operational Agility financial credit institutions managed suppliers Partners Operational Good Excellence Governance • €195m income tax paid • Protect people's health and • Energy and water Innovation-Driven Natural Sustainability Society prosperity and contribute to a consumption at our offices safe and just society and data centers Resources • Community efforts 10 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Transformation towards an expert solutions company Above all, our expert services solutions are tailored print 50% to address and digital navigate change. expert of our revenues solutions come from expert solutions 2003 2014 2016 2019 Report of the Executive Board Health Providing trusted clinical technology and evidence-based Completion of the first year of Accelerating Our Value strategy solutions that engage clinicians, patients, researchers, and the next generation of healthcare providers in effective 89% of Wolters Kluwer’s product offering is digital & Improving Lives Today and for the Future decision-making and outcomes across healthcare. We services and 78% of our total revenues are recurring. 16 specialize in clinical effectiveness, learning, research, years ago, 31% of the company’s products and services compliance, and data solutions. were digital. The increasing rate at which customers were Providing knowledge in decisive moments from static to dynamic information. At Wolters Kluwer, barraged with complex information – lawyers, doctors, we employ technology to engineer highly intelligent and Tax and accounting accountants, and financial professionals alike – constituted Wolters Kluwer is a global provider of professional responsive workflows in the workplace, providing even Enabling tax and accounting professionals and businesses a critical pain point which needed to be addressed. information, software solutions, and services for clinicians, greater value to our customers. of all sizes to boost productivity, navigate change, and nurses, accountants, lawyers, and tax, finance, audit, risk, deliver better outcomes. With workflows optimized by Our 2019-2021 Accelerating Our Value strategy drives compliance, and regulatory sectors. Our customers work The rise of the gig economy also presents a natural market technology and guided by deep domain expertise, we help our day-to-day operations and consists of three pillars. in industries which impact the lives of millions of people for our efficiency-enhancing and cost-cutting expert organizations grow, manage, and protect their businesses These pillars reflect our strategic priorities and form the every single day. Our range of expert solutions combine solutions. As our customers are under pressure to do more as well as their client’s businesses. foundation for executing our strategy across our portfolio. deep domain knowledge with advanced technology and work in less time, it’s more important than ever for them to services. They are all designed to assist and augment ensure a consistent and reliable exchange of information. Finance Grow expert solutions our customers’ work on a daily basis. Our priority is to Data privacy rights and consumer protection are also Our solutions for regulated financial departments and • Drive global scale and expand leading positions; provide timely, actionable insights in an end-to-end digital topics which increasingly occupy our customers’ time and institutions help customers meet their obligations • Extend into adjacencies; and environment that empowers customers to make informed resources. to external regulators. We specialize in unifying and • Develop strategic partnerships. decisions and deliver impact when it matters most. optimizing processes to deliver a real-time, accurate view These changes are driven by a workforce that expects of any organization’s financial position. Advance deep domain knowledge Wolters Kluwer has delivered on its commitment to help convenient, relevant, and responsive experiences, thanks • Enrich domain expertise with advanced technologies professionals solve complex problems for the better part of to our increasingly connected lives. We endeavor to be a Legal and deliver actionable intelligence into the customer the last two centuries. This is reflected through our markettrusted partner, working side-by-side with professionals Serving legal professionals in law firms, general counsel workflow; leading expert solutions which are employed across 90% of to help them realize their potential while future-proofing offices, and corporate legal departments with data• Enhance the customer experience through differentiated U.S. academic medical centers, 100% of the top 100 global their professions. driven decision-making tools. We streamline legal and user interfaces; and law firms, 93% of Fortune 500 companies, 100% of the top regulatory research, analysis, and workflows to drive value • Continue to invest eight to ten percent of revenues in U.S. accounting firms, and 90% of the world’s top banks. Expert insights to organizations, ensuring more transparent, just, and safe new and enhanced products. societies across the globe. Our commitment to innovating our solutions through Our in-house innovation labs and our central technology Drive operational agility advanced technology allows us to address tomorrow’s organization employ advanced technologies to extract Compliance • Leverage global brand and strengthen go-to-market; challenges head on. Core assumptions about how we actionable insights from data. We work with our teams of We help organizations ensure adherence with ever• Enhance back-office systems, infrastructure, and digital work and what work means for professionals are currently industry experts to integrate these insights into seamless changing regulatory obligations, at the same time platforms; and undergoing massive changes. The expectation that digital experiences for our customers for specific areas of managing risk, increasing efficiency, and producing better • Attract and develop talent. advanced technologies, such as artificial intelligence, interest. business outcomes. play a part in every facet of our lives has led to a move 12 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Our 2019-2021 strategy Build a The Mahatma Gandhi Free Medical Center in Kasuva, India, provides sets the course for the pharmacy healthcare at a children’s home and old age home. Wolters Kluwer partnered organization to become with NGO Sevalaya to build a pharmacy and expand medical services in Kasuva, an expert solutions which will benefit 100+ children every day. company. In 2019, we have completed the first year of our three-year initiatives to drive operational agility: in 2019, we rolled out Materiality analysis: identifying economic, We performed a thorough analysis in 2018 through the strategy centered around Accelerating Our Value: a new global HR technology platform, greatly improving our social, and environmental challenges following steps: • Grow expert solutions: We will focus on scaling our expert ability to attract, retain, and develop talent. We accelerated • Consultation of external sources and selection of 18 solutions by extending these offerings and broadening ongoing investments and programs designed to keep data We continuously identify economic, social, and topics; their distribution through existing and new channels, and systems secure. We made progress on extending the environmental topics that are linked to the interests of • Survey of stakeholders; including strategic partnerships. We will invest to build or use of standardized technology platforms and components. our stakeholders and are relevant to our business success. • Ranking of 18 topics into a materiality matrix; acquire positions in adjacent market segments; Through our annual materiality analysis, we assess the • Materiality matrix discussed with the Investor Relations • Advance domain expertise: We intend to continue In 2020, we will continue to focus on growing our expert level of importance of these topics for our stakeholders department; and transforming our information products and services solutions, advancing our deep domain expertise, and and Wolters Kluwer, categorizing them as operational, • Materiality matrix approved by the CEO and Chairman of by enriching their domain content with advanced driving operational agility to further grow our leading strategic, or material. the Executive Board. technologies to deliver actionable intelligence and deeper market positions and customer relationships. integration into customer workflows. We will invest to Materiality matrix enhance the user experience of these products through Driving long-term value creation user-centric design and differentiated interfaces; and High 5 4 • Drive operational agility: We plan to strengthen our We are serving the long-term interests of all our key 2 global brand, go-to-market, and digital marketing stakeholders to make sure we make a deep impact with 1 capabilities to support organic growth. We will invest to each of them and contribute to shaping a better future for 3 Importance for stakeholders upgrade our back-office systems and IT infrastructure. society at large. Our value creation model is at the core Medium 14 10 7 By 2021, we expect to complete the modernization of our of everything we do and guides our work on a day-to-day 6 Human Resources technology to support our efforts to basis. It shows how our organizational business model uses 11 9 17 15 13 attract and nurture talent. resources kindly and efficiently as input for our business 12 activities supporting our strategy. The impact of our 16 8 In the first year of this plan, we made progress on several business activities create value for all our stakeholders and Low fronts. We sustained investment in our expert solutions, contribute to the SDGs Wolters Kluwer is committed to. 18 extending the global reach of products, such as UpToDate, TeamMate, CCH Tagetik, OneSumX, and Enablon, and We strive to develop products that help protect people’s Operational Strategic Material working to strengthen key distribution partnerships. We health and prosperity and contribute to a safe and just extended into the selected adjacencies of contract lifecycle society by providing deep insights and knowledge to Importance for Wolters Kluwer management and barrier-based risk management with professionals. We are continuously focused on improving 1 Customer focus and relationships 10 Good governance and compliance the acquisitions of CLM Matrix in May 2019 and CGE Risk our impact while also optimizing resource use. As a 2 Employee engagement and talent management 11 Operational excellence Management in February 2020. We divested certain small member of different communities and society at large, 3 Smart capital allocation 12 Strong brand assets that no longer fit our long-term strategic direction. Wolters Kluwer maintains regular contact with stakeholders 4 Product innovation 13 Responsible and well-managed supply chain We stepped up investment in our digital information including investors, Environmental, Social, and Governance 5 Product impact 14 Diversity and inclusion products, such as Ovid and our European legal research (ESG) analysts and rating agencies, government ofﬁces, the 6 Editorial quality and integrity 15 Health, safety, and well-being 7 IP and copyright protection 16 Community involvement solutions, to enhance their content, functionality, and user media, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), and educational 8 Targetted transparency 17 Natural resource protection interface and to add capabilities that leverage artificial and research institutions. 9 Data privacy and security 18 Circular economy intelligence. We made significant progress on several key 14 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Planting Wolters Kluwer works with several tree-planting organizations to promote Support Wolters Kluwer donated the usage of its legal research platform to support trees sustainable business practices, including American Forests, the Office foundation for operations of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, which supports its Nationale des Forêts and human rights employees and volunteers in Reforestaction in France, and the performing their tasks to help meet Swedish tree planting organization human rights goals. Vi-skogen. In total, we have planted 29,210 trees. The results of our materiality analysis highlight the topics Commitment to United Nations Sustainable SDG 9: Industry, innovation, and infrastructure SDG 16: Peace, justice, and strong institutions that are most important to the company’s business Development Goals Innovation is critical for long-term sustainable growth. Our solutions help promote security and reduce risk, as we: performance or substantially influence the assessments Our transformation from paper to digital brings significant • Promote the rule of law by making information on laws and decisions of its stakeholders, driving value creation. Wolters Kluwer is committed to the United Nations value to our customers and improves overall resource and regulations available; We capture input from customers, business partners, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which address the efficiency. Some highlights include: • Provide solutions that help our customers comply employees, and investors to identify which topics are economic, social, and environmental challenges the world • Our digital transformation, 89% of our revenues now with regulatory and legal obligations, including antimaterial according to each of these stakeholders. faces. As shown in our value creation model, our focus is to come from digital & services; corruption and anti-bribery; contribute to three SDGs: • We are recognized as the industry leader in the • Help enhance public and professional access to legal and Based on these steps, we identified the following material Environmental, Health & Safety and Operational Risk tax information; topics around which we aligned our efforts, which form the Management (EHS/ORM) software market; • Provide information solutions that promote human rights, basis of our business activities: • A focus on innovation, with 8%-10% of total revenues including non-discrimination and equal opportunity; • Customer focus and relationships; invested in new and enhanced products; • Encourage editorial independence; • Employee engagement and talent management; We support and contribute to these SDGs through the • Combining predictive analytics, machine learning, natural • Offer solutions to improve the regulation of financial • Smart capital allocation; innovative products and services we deliver, through our language processing, and human expertise into our institutions; • Product innovation; and engaged employees, through our sustainable returns, and solutions; • Provide internal training programs on compliance with • Product impact. through our impact on society. • We encourage innovation by our employees through our legal obligations, covering areas such as corruption and annual Global Innovation Awards and Code Games; bribery; and These topics remain material to the long-term success of SDG 3: Good health and well-being • We have increased the number of technology and R&D • Leverage artificial intelligence to identify threats and the business, based on a limited analysis performed in Our products protect and enhance people’s health by: workers through our central technology team, our capitalize on opportunities. 2019. • Creating better-skilled health professionals; multinational product development and innovation team; • Improving knowledge and evidence about diseases • Where possible, we use digital co-working software Further communications regarding these material topics including AIDS, cancer, and diabetes; instead of travel to improve resource efficiency; and can be found in the various sections of the Report of the • Providing professionals with ongoing, actionable • In 2019, several Wolters Kluwer products received external Executive Board and in our 2019 Sustainability Data Report, information which improves their treatment of patients; awards for excellence or innovation. available on our website. • Increasing the knowledge and management of medicines; • Ensuring workplace health and safety to help reduce deaths and illnesses from chemicals and water and soil pollution; • Predicting and preventing workplace incidents to reduce injuries and fatalities; • Facilitating the development and training of health workforces in global growth markets including China, Brazil, and India; and • Aiding in disaster management by making services available free of charge in disaster zones. 16 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Deep domain knowledge Recognition for combined with delivering impact advanced technology Our expert solutions – a combination of CCH Tagetik Finance Transformation review processes, plus an increase in billing Forbes 2019 America’s Fortune's Most Powerful CEO Nancy McKinstry deep domain knowledge with advanced Platform enables finance to spend less guideline compliance. technology and services – deliver better time managing and controlling processes Best Employers, Employers Women International 2019 included in Harvard outcomes, analytics, and improved and more time focused on driving business M&A Clause Analytics is a workflow solution for Women, and Best included CEO Nancy Business Review’s productivity for our customers. We are results. Supporting all financial functions that combines artificial intelligence and Employer for Diversity list McKinstry Best-Performing CEOs recognized and valued for helping them and simplifying complex processes from expert attorney curation to improve quality, realize their potential and deliver impact planning all the way through disclosure efficiency, and ease of preparing M&A in the World for 2019 when it matters most. management. agreements. It puts forth a model for each Dutch CHRO magazine Golden Bridge Awards for agreement based on a robust, statistically UpToDate Advanced includes evidenceCCH Axcess delivers a set of innovative significant sample set of recent documents. ranked Chief Human its solutions and services Ranked again in the based algorithms developed to address features designed to make the tax and Resources Officer, Maryjo across different categories leading pack on the Enablon Risk, Operational Risk and EHS clinical variability in over 60 common accounting profession more efficient and Charbonnier, CHRO of the Transformers 200, medical conditions. With UpToDate Pathways profitable, as the accounting profession’s Management software supports hundreds and Lab Interpretation, clinicians can arrive first modular, cloud-based tax preparation, of global industry-leaders and millions Year 2019 by CHRO.NL CCH Tagetik, CCH Axcess, a study on the digital at the best decisions for their patients in compliance and workflow management of users to increase safety, manage CT Corporation, CASH transformation readiness view of contemporary evidence, clinical solution. It provides professionals with environmental performance, minimize risks, experience, and patient-specific factors. on-demand, mobile services, real-time and improve profitability and sustainability. Inclusion in Workflow, ELM Solutions, of established Dutch firms collaboration with clients, and current Recognized for its best in class user sustainability rankings Lien Solutions, OneSumX, Sentri7 clinical surveillance technology regulatory guidance. CCH Axcess iQ allows experience, Enablon supports over 100 EHS FTSE4Good, STOXX Europe Vanceo Mortgage, and UpToDate: Best in KLAS empowers clinicians to surveil the patient users to analyze their CCH Axcess Tax data to and risk workflows. population in real time to identify any match potentially impacted clients with tax Sustainability, and EURO Legal & Regulatory CEO 2019 as the Category patients at risk. Advanced analytics and legislation change triggers. eVision is a global leader in industrial STOXX ESG Leaders 50 Stacey Caywood won in the Leader for Clinical Decision ready-made reports deliver visibility into a operational risk management software for spectrum of clinical initiatives focused on The OneSumX suite of integrated regulatory high-risk and high-precision industries. 2019 Golden Bridge Support improving care and outcomes. compliance solutions provides financial Its solution allows customers to improve The monKEY solution was Awards institutions with unparalleled capabilities control over their operational processes, awarded Best Enablon and eVision POC Advisor delivers scientifically proven to analyze, interpret, manage, and address reducing risk, increasing safety, and improvements in detecting sepsis. Rapid their ever-changing global regulatory delivering efficiencies. Professional Information Karen Abramson won the named leaders in the identification of patients and evidencereporting and compliance obligations. The Database prestigious 2019 SIIA Verdantix ORM Software based guidance to clinicians at the point of OneSumX solution suite is made up of four Kleos is cloud-based practice management care reduces variation in care and improves areas: OneSumX for Regulatory Reporting, software for lawyers. With 20,000 users and CODiE Awards as CEO of Green Quadrant financial outcomes. Natural Language OneSumX for Finance, OneSumX for Risk offered in ten countries, Kleos leverages Lippincott journal portfolio the Year Processing technology and intelligent alerts Management, and OneSumX for Compliance cloud and mobile technologies in a highly warn front-line clinical staff and provide Management. won 50 awards for editorial 2019 Accounting Today secure environment for managing legal clinical guidance to ensure timely and documents, cases, and the workflow of the and design excellence, Governance, Risk & Top 100 Most Influential effective treatment. ELM Solutions’ Passport, TyMetrix 360° law firm. including 32 from the Compliance recognized by People in Accounting and LegalVIEW solutions use advanced TeamMate is the global internal audit technology and artificial intelligence to The Legisway portfolio combines legal American Society of Corporate Vision solution used by audit and accounting enhance the legal operations workflow. and software expertise to bring real-world Healthcare Publication Magazine as Best Place to CT Corporation won two professionals in corporate and government They help corporate legal and insurance intelligence to leading-edge technology Editors Work Award Business Innovator audit organizations. Customers are finding claims departments thoroughly and solutions. Legisway’s all-in-one legal added value through the popular new efficiently manage their legal matters management solutions empower legal Awards cloud-based TeamMate+ solution as it and spend to attain better outcomes. professionals to boost efficiency, increase allows for greater mobility, flexibility, and LegalVIEW BillAnalyzer is an AI-enabled collaboration across the business, and collaboration. expert bill review solution that delivers enable business growth. 18 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report cost savings compared to existing invoice Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Our priority is to transform 2019 Global Innovations Awards customer interactions across the entire journey into a seamless, customer-focused 9 edition th 260 15 4 submissions finalists winners end-to-end digital experience. Importance for Wolters Kluwer Transformative Innovations Turning customer problems into solutions Delivering intuitive solutions Helping customers achieve their ambitions relies on Interaction with customers before, during, and after the The increasing rate at which our customers are barraged Investing in our culture and engaging employees in unlocking deep insights into their specific pain points. innovation process helps Wolters Kluwer to adjust and with complex information constitutes a critical pain point creative processes allow us to continually anticipate the Uncovering – and solving – customer problems is possible deliver its solutions to their exact needs. Understanding which needs to be addressed. Navigating an era which has needs of physicians, nurses, lawyers, tax professionals, at Wolters Kluwer thanks to four main elements: the customer journey allows us to execute a robust also seen the physical and digital worlds merge, Wolters as well as those of finance, legal, regulatory, and • Employee expertise: We employ practitioners across enterprise-wide customer experience measurement Kluwer has continuously evolved how we safeguard the compliance professionals. every division, doctors, nurses, health professionals, tax program in tandem with analytics and data management. public’s safety, health, and prosperity through our and accounting professionals, lawyers, finance As a result, we can amplify the most important insights to investment in product development and innovation. We Our organization’s largest innovation competition, the practitioners, and more. In addition, the company’s inform our product development decisions. know that digital transformation changes everything Global Innovation Awards (GIA), has seen 75 percent of business units have advisory boards of practitioners, or about how products are designed and delivered. winning ideas go to market. This program contributes to work directly with practitioners themselves; For example, the team behind Enablon 4.0, our nextstrengthening our company’s culture of innovation, while • Deep workflow insights: Increasingly, we collaborate generation environmental, health, and safety software Because of advanced technologies, the skills required to contributing novel ideas that help accelerate our value with customers to map their workflows in detail to solution, seeks to make sense of available data in order to perform most jobs will have shifted significantly, by 2022. and develop our talent. It reflects our commitment to identify all aspects of the work involved, down to the understand, predict, and prevent incidents. For every The World Economic Forum (WEF) predicts that around 30 being digital-first and the ongoing shift to global task level; fatality, 300,000 unsafe conditions and behaviors are percent of activities in 60 percent of all occupations could platforms and cloud-based, integrated expert solutions • Intelligent technology: Through applying any number of reported by workers in industries across the board. become automated in the future, which means – aligned to our three-year strategy. specialized technologies and workflow insights to Leveraging the reported data can truly help to save lives. professionals will have to grapple with new skills and get specific tasks, those tasks can often be automated. By Using sensor-enabled equipment, cloud computing accustomed to increasingly working with machines. Any one of our 19,000 employees can submit an idea in taking steps out of the workflow, the company improves applications, mobile capabilities, and big data analytics, Optimizing workflows will become critical to ensure the areas of core business, game-changers, or internal customers’ productivity. This helps customers move the Enablon 4.0 team was able to create a fully integrated professionals are confident in their work and the processes. In 2019, we received 260 submissions, all of from doing the work, to advising their clients, thereby and automated system to detect risks in real time. The information they rely on. which put our customer and their pain points front and strengthening their own value proposition; and AI-engine they created continuously learns risk and center to their innovation. All of the finalists' innovations • External partnerships: In health markets, for example, control patterns from the industries it operates in, which Driving innovation and product development were evaluated against the strictest criteria by the Wolters Kluwer partners with electronic medical records allows customers to make data-driven decisions and Innovation Board, which is composed of internal companies and other players in the health ecosystem. prevent incidents from happening. Customers and employees both play a crucial role in stakeholders, headed by CEO Nancy McKinstry, and The same trend is happening in tax and accounting. developing new industry-leading solutions. Working external innovation luminaries. These partnerships unlock value not only for Wolters According to Gartner, only ten percent of the vast number alongside our customers, we will continue to apply Kluwer, but also for our customers, their clients – and of companies that collect customer feedback act on it, advanced technologies to address complex problems in other partners. and even fewer tell their customers what action they’ve society. Our centers of excellence and task forces help us taken as a result of their feedback. Through Beyond the anticipate and respond to market trends relating to Score, a customer experience measurement program, customer needs, regulation, and technological changes. Wolters Kluwer is able to listen to and understand the customer journey and act on customer feedback. The enterprise-wide customer experience measurement 20 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Cyberattacks are an unfortunate reality in this increasingly digital world. What matters most is how 77% we prepare, defend, and respond Employee Engagement Score* to these situations. * Results are from the engagement category of the global shorter pulse survey administered to 20% of employees in 2019. program is being executed in tandem with incorporating At Wolters Kluwer, we work hand-in-hand with best-inEmbracing People and Society analytics and data management to amplify the most class global firms that help us evolve our preparedness, important customer insights. As a result, the team is now prevention, protection, and response programs in the driving accountable actions, creating more memorable face of changing cybercrime. Our employees are In our globally connected society, the purpose of our diversity of our customers and the communities in which experiences for customers, and influencing millions of empowered to develop their security mindset and use business is increasingly important and helps us to answer we live and work. Our values and Business Principles existing revenues. good judgment through regular up-to-date training and some of the fundamental questions on our role in society. articulate the importance we place on our diversity, and knowledge-sharing on the characteristics of cyber­ Why do we exist as a company? Where do we fit in society? we believe it is one of the factors that sets us apart from Cyber resilience attacks. Annually, we take Cybersecurity Awareness What value do we create for our employees, customers, many of our peers. Month as an opportunity to roll-out a global campaign to and the world? As we move into the next decade, we will Protecting the interests of our customers, employees, inform employees about how Wolters Kluwer is working to continue to identify how we contribute to society including Putting our values in action and society is our top priority, and so is data security and protect our network and data, as well as knowledge and our employees, customers, and the world at large. At Wolters Kluwer, our company values encourage us to the safe and reliable delivery of our platforms. As a digital resources to help them do their part in keeping us safe. put the customer at the center of everything we do, while company in an increasingly sophisticated cyber-threat Creating an even better place to work in 2019 honoring our commitment to continuous improvement landscape, we will continuously improve our cyber and innovation, aiming high and delivering the right readiness posture to protect our customers and our Wolters Kluwer continuously strives for an inclusive results, and most importantly, winning as a team. World employees. company culture in which we attract, develop, and retain Values Day is an event we celebrate annually to increase high-performing, productive, engaged, and diverse talent awareness about the meaning and practice of values In May 2019, Wolters Kluwer detected ransomware in a to deliver on our strategy. The dedication of our highly around the globe and it demonstrates how actionportion of our IT environment. We proactively took a specialized employees is one of our greatest strengths oriented and participatory our company values are. For broad range of customer and internal applications and and key to our future success. 2019, the World Values Day theme was wellness – the platforms offline to protect our systems, applications, quality or state of being in good health. and customer data. We promptly engaged with a leading Diversity makes a difference cybersecurity technology firm to conduct a forensic An instrumental component of success lies in building Creating an engaged workforce investigation of the incident. The firm has confirmed that strong, diverse teams – especially within a knowledgeTo ensure we engage our talent, we listen closely to our it has not observed any execution of the ransomware intensive company like Wolters Kluwer. Good teamwork employees through an annual employee engagement since May 6 or any evidence of data exfiltration from our inside the company, in addition to working closely with survey. Our 2019 survey indicates our level of employee network. customers, is the only way to ensure we deliver highengagement remains high, employees have pride in the quality, innovative products. company, and integrity, trust, and respect continue to grow even higher. Greater diversity not only results in effective teamwork and innovation, but also creates an environment for We are getting better at anticipating and responding to strong employee engagement. change and our employees continue to be optimistic about the future success of our company. In 2020, we will We aim to create equal opportunities for all employees continue to focus on what matters most to our employees, regardless of personal background, race, gender, providing even more for developing skills and careers and nationality, age, sexual orientation, physical disability, or tools and resources to do their work. religion. Without our diversity, we cannot reflect the 22 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Diversity The only way to get and keep talent is by creating 43% 50% 75% 39% 49% 47% more diversity. If you female female female female female female create more diversity, you attract more diversity. Supervisory Executive division managers** nontotal Board Board CEOs* managers workforce * Includes the division CEOs of the operating divisions: Health, Tax & Accounting, Governance, Risk & Compliance, and Legal & Regulatory. ** Managers are defined as employees having three or more direct reports. The digital transformation of human resources Attracting and retaining talent We continued to focus on leadership development by We also expanded our program offerings globally. To In 2019, Wolters Kluwer continued to deliver on its Delivering on our strategy requires highly specialized delivering our highly successful curriculum for new support our employees in the pursuit of their well-being, ongoing commitment to continuous improvement and talent. We enhanced our ability to attract and retain the managers and leaders. Wolters Kluwer also offers all this year, we introduced an Employee Assistance Plan for innovation and respond to feedback from our talent we need through the consolidation of over 30 local leaders on-demand leadership learning taught by top all our employees and their family members worldwide. engagement survey. We accomplished this largely by external career websites into one global website. External experts with over 40 leadership tracks, each aligned with The program provides confidential 24/7 support, driving operational efficiency through the global and job candidates now have one place to learn about Wolters our global leadership competencies. resources, and information to help with personal and highly successful implementation of market-leading Kluwer and to view and apply for open positions globally. work-life issues. technology and expanded service delivery, enabling our The new external career website also provides our To strengthen our leadership pipeline, we perform our employees and leaders to be more effective at their jobs. employees one place to direct people they know who annual leadership talent review process to understand the Corporate responsibility is everyone’s might be right for an open position within our company. skills, capabilities, and career aspirations of our leaders. responsibility We enhanced our HR service delivery in the United States, Our annual succession process ensures succession plans expanded our HR portal, and enhanced the service The overhaul resulted in 34,000 visits to the new external are in place for our business-critical roles. We take our responsibility as a corporate citizen delivery model to our global workforce. This resulted in career website within 45 days of launch with 44% of these seriously. Good corporate governance is the foundation an easier, more streamlined way for employees to get visits resulting in an application for employment being Expanding well-being globally for building a successful business with sustainable answers to their questions and to access our global HR started. In 2019, we implemented new health and well-being impact. As a provider of governance-related expert systems. initiatives and have made improvements to existing solutions, we want to lead by example. It is essential for Development and succession initiatives in several countries. all our stakeholders that we demonstrate how we do this The numbers reinforced our accomplishments: 79% of our A critical component of our employee engagement is and how we regard the role of corporate governance global workforce accessed the global HR portal within 45 developing skills and careers. We continued creating In the United States, Wolters Kluwer offers a within our overall sustainability strategy. Wolters Kluwer days of expansion to our global workforce. opportunities for development and growth through our comprehensive well-being program – Be Well – which is an has therefore developed several policies and principles, on-demand foundational skill-building courses and incentive-based program designed to encourage that cover a wide range of domains to ensure the One global career framework resources available to all employees globally. employees to make positive overall health choices by continuous compliance with high business standards. In 2019, a single career framework was created to help taking a holistic view of the individual and offering organize all jobs and work globally. The career framework To expand our development opportunities, in 2019, we programs that focus on physical, mental, financial, and The Wolters Kluwer Business Principles serve as our code helps all global employees understand where their job prepared for adding over 14,000 online courses globally, social well-being. Be Well offers a variety of programs of conduct, outlining the company-wide rules that each of fits within the company and how they contribute to each designed to help employees gain knowledge across including on-site health screenings, flu shots, a health our employees is expected to adhere to. Key elements Wolters Kluwer. It also provides a structure for developing several subjects, taught by experts with real-world assessment questionnaire, and health improvement from our Business Principles are also included in our employee’s skills within their role and beyond. For experience. Employees will also be given the opportunity challenges to encourage year-round engagement. Almost Supplier Code of Conduct, that our suppliers are expected managers, the career framework helps them consistently to get personalized course recommendations based on half of employees in the United States participated in at to adhere to. understand their workforce of today and assists them their job title, skills, and goals for their current role and least one well-being activity in 2019. Additionally, with workforce planning for our future success. beyond. These new learning opportunities will be aggregate data collected from the annual, self-reported introduced to employees in February 2020. health assessment showed that program participants improved their physical activity and reduced stress levels from previous years. 24 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 25 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Our values build cohesiveness Our employees help to shape across geographic and cultural transformation, they expect us boundaries, people understand the to be more agile as a company rules that should guide their to enhance their skills and decision-making and behavior. careers. To ensure compliance with our Business Principles and Educating employees ethically Impact on society other corporate policies and applicable laws, we have The Annual Compliance Training was provided to all active deployed several initiatives. A company-wide employees globally in September 2019. 99% of our By helping professionals provide better healthcare, solve Impact of our products management certiﬁcation process requires the managers employees had completed this required training by complex tax and accounting issues, and build better Our expert solutions – a combination of deep domain of each of our divisions and operating entities to sign a year-end. The training program consists of several judicial and regulatory systems, Wolters Kluwer has a knowledge with advanced technology and services – Letter of Representation on a semi-annual basis. In these e-learning courses including ethics, IT and cybersecurity, positive impact on society. At the same time, we strive to deliver better outcomes, analytics, and improved letters, the executives conﬁrm that they comply with all fraud, data privacy, and more. New hires receive the incorporate sustainability efforts into the day-to-day productivity, and solve complex problems for our applicable policies and laws. training program upon their onboarding. business operations that make this impact possible and customers. We are recognized and valued for helping viable for the long-term. them realize their potential and deliver impact when it In addition, all Wolters Kluwer employees are required to It is the company’s ongoing target to have at least 90% of matters most. complete compliance training at least once per year. our active employees worldwide follow and complete the Accordingly, we are guided by international guidelines Furthermore, employees are encouraged to report any online compliance training each year. such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and We introduced the product impact portfolio as a suspected non-compliance with the Business Principles Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational framework for inspiring sustainable innovation. Our or other company policies. The company offers various Reporting system for employees Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding Principles on product impact portfolio helps to identify the impact our channels of reporting, including line manager, HR, Legal, SpeakUp, our global reporting system for employees, Business and Human Rights (UNGP), and the principles of products have on customers and society. Each year, three higher management, or to the Ethics & Compliance underpins the importance of integrity and contributes to the United Nations Global Compact. We also continuously top products from each division are selected to be Committee through our global reporting system SpeakUp, creating a culture in which employees are comfortable to strive to minimize our environmental footprint and play a included in the product impact portfolio. We use selected which provides a safe, confidential channel for reporting speak up and report any concerns. SpeakUp is available part in the circular economy. indicators around economic, social, and environmental concerns. 24/7 in 22 languages, alongside other reporting channels topics and measure whether a product contributes to set out in our SpeakUp Policy. Via SpeakUp, employees Protecting human rights these indicators. Our product impact portfolio can be Wolters Kluwer’s Data Privacy Commitments guide our can report any potential concerns, including suspected Our Human Rights Policy supports our ambitions with found in the Sustainability Data Report on the website. company-wide approach and express the value we attach breaches of company policies, laws, or regulations, to the respect to the protection of human rights. The policy to protecting the personal information of our customers, Ethics & Compliance Committee. The system also addresses the human rights issues which are most employees, and other stakeholders. We partner with third provides an option to report concerns anonymously, relevant for the company. Wolters Kluwer supports and parties and vendors to ensure compliance. Wolters Kluwer except for certain countries where anonymous reporting respects human rights and strives to ensure that its established a cross-functional enterprise-wide is legally not permitted. In 2019, 29 concerns were activities will not infringe upon them. Wolters Kluwer compliance program for the General Data Protection reported to the Ethics & Compliance Committee. We encourages improvements of the human rights Regulation (GDPR) coordinated by the Corporate Privacy investigated all concerns reported and closed these performance of its suppliers through its Supplier Code of Officer, with the mission to embed data privacy in our matters. None of the concerns reported to the Ethics & Conduct. culture, processes, and day-to-day business operations. Compliance Committee had a material impact on the We have also launched a new global program which will company. focus on the implementation of the California Data Protection Act (CDPA), which will become effective on January 1, 2020, and we are closely monitoring other upcoming data privacy laws. 26 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 27 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements We continuously aim to deliver economic, social, and environmental 99% 260 100% impact through our of our employees completed the Annual suppliers committed to our Supplier Code of our major data center suppliers certified expert solutions. Compliance Training of Conduct or equivalent standard according to ISO/IEC 27001 Environmental responsibility To demonstrate our commitment to minimizing our Environmental best practices within our offices As part of this due diligence, we request suppliers to sign Wolters Kluwer takes a stand against climate change and environmental impact, we have included our resourceAs part of Wolters Kluwer’s Green Is Green (GIG) Program, our Supplier Code of Conduct or to confirm adherence to continuously reaffirms its commitment to social and related sustainability ambitions in our Environmental which has the goal to deliver both environmental benefits an equivalent standard. A total of 260 suppliers have environmental responsibility as they relate to both its Policy, available on www.wolterskluwer.com: and cost savings, we launched the GIG Office Program in signed the Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct or suppliers and its own operations. 2019. This is a volunteer-led green network across more have an equivalent standard, while 90% of the suppliers • Implement high-opportunity environmental measures; than 40 of our offices to implement green best practices we engaged with responded to our due diligence With our effort to minimize our environmental impact, we • Continue growing our expert solutions through and create opportunities for colleagues to connect on questionnaire and provided information on their contribute to the COP21 Paris agreement of December innovation and accelerating our global platform and sustainability. A two-month competition was held, sustainability strategy and actions. In 2020, we intend to 2016 on limiting global warming. cloud-based integrated solutions; designed to quickly enact changes on the ground and increase the number of suppliers that sign our Supplier • Improve processes and optimize office space to reduce increase engagement around sustainability. Over 1,300 Code of Conduct or have an equivalent standard to 295, As part of our strategy, we have been actively focusing on consumption of energy and water, and to improve waste employees took part in at least one GIG event. Awards in and to continue to have a response rate of 90% to our due an increase of revenues from digital solutions and treatment and recycling; five categories were given to offices that were greenest, diligence questionnaire. services, which represent 89% of total revenues in 2019. • Use alternative energy sources to reduce greenhouse most innovative, most engaged, had largest savings, and Our digital products and services are considered gas production; best reporting. Winning offices were able to give a All our major data center suppliers are certified in the “circular” in terms of business usage. Use of our digital • Consolidate and outsource data centers to increase donation to an environmental charity of choice and use information security management standard ISO/IEC products results in a more efficient use of resources as efficiency and reduce energy consumption; and funds for a green engagement event in 2020. 27001. We continue to require these suppliers to be content is updated while the same product can continue • Minimize business travel by promoting alternatives such certified according to this standard. As our major data to be used. Also, the multiplication of digital products as audio and video conferencing. Responsibility through the supply chain center suppliers operate on higher energy efficiency, we reduces resource consumption. We expect our suppliers to adhere to the standards further reduce our environmental impact by outsourcing Two focal points where a major environmental impact can described in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Existing and and further consolidating our data center activities. be made are our offices and data centers. Firstly, we new suppliers that are managed through our central constantly look for opportunities to reduce the footprint supplier database are invited to participate in a due Please see our Sustainability Data Report, available on of our offices which also includes a shift to more efficient diligence questionnaire to provide information on their www.wolterskluwer.com, for more information on our use of space through different office arrangements and efforts and policies on, among other topics, data security social, environmental, and supply chain responsibility. the possibility of home-office work. Secondly, we actively and data privacy, risk management, working standards, reduce the number of data processing locations as well as and environmental measures. vendors of these services, in order to reduce the total energy consumption of our offices and increase the energy effectiveness of our products and services. We monitor the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) ratio of our suppliers to ensure minimization of the amount of energy used for our products and services. 28 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 29 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements We serve Side by side with our customers, understanding 90% 93% 100% 90% 100% their needs and addressing of U.S. academic medical of Fortune 500 companies of the top U.S. accounting of the world’s top banks of the top 100 global law the rapid changes in their centers firms firms environment Our Organization Health Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Compliance Legal & Regulatory Global Growth Markets Global Business Services Digital eXperience Group Corporate Office Diana Nole Karen Abramson Richard Flynn Stacey Caywood Cathy Wolfe Andres Sadler Dennis Cahill CEO Health CEO Tax & Accounting CEO Governance, Risk & CEO Legal & Regulatory EVP & President Global CEO Global Business Chief Technology Officer Compliance Growth Markets Services Digital eXperience Group Wolters Kluwer provides trusted Wolters Kluwer fuels global Wolters Kluwer provides legal Wolters Kluwer enables legal The Wolters Kluwer Global Wolters Kluwer Global The Wolters Kluwer Digital The Wolters Kluwer clinical technology and commerce by enabling and banking professionals with and compliance professionals to Growth Markets (GGM) Business Services (GBS) is eXperience Group (DXG), Corporate Ofﬁce sets the evidence-based solutions that professionals in tax and solutions to ensure compliance improve productivity and group, formerly Emerging & responsible for improving formerly Global Platform global strategic direction engage clinicians, patients, accounting ﬁrms, governing with ever-changing regulatory performance, mitigate risk, and Developing Markets, the quality and performance Organization, co-creates for the company and researchers, students, and the authorities, and businesses of and legal obligations, manage solve complex problems with accelerates the company’s of the internal technology state-of-the-art digital ensures good corporate next generation of healthcare all sizes to grow, manage and risk, increase efficiency, and conﬁdence. With expert strategic presence in infrastructure, while driving solutions with our governance. Its mission is to providers. With a focus on protect their business and their produce better business information enriched with fast-growing geographies, global financial and businesses around the support and provide an clinical effectiveness, research clients’ businesses. Expert outcomes. The portfolio offers advanced technologies, we help particularly India, China, operational excellence world. The DXG mandate is enabling business and and learning, safety and solutions – in compliance, technology-enabled expert professionals thrive in the and Brazil. GGM’s mission is programs. GBS enables to grow revenue in the operating environment to surveillance, and collaboration, internal and services and solutions focused complex and changing areas of to service professionals in businesses to focus on company’s digital products help realize our strategy to interoperability and data external audit management, on legal entity compliance, legal legal and regulatory compliance. these markets with global delivering customer through innovation in, and deliver impact to our intelligence, our proven corporate performance operations management, In the moments that matter expert solutions that outcomes while providing adoption of, advanced customers, employees, solutions drive effective management and ﬁrm banking product compliance, most, professionals turn to us to combine deep domain expertise, streamlined technologies and tools to investors, and society at decision-making and consistent management – integrate deep and banking regulatory serve their clients, and as they knowledge and local operating standards, meet and further anticipate large. outcomes across the continuum domain knowledge with compliance. create more successful and expertise with specialized enhanced IT systems and customer needs. The group of care. workﬂows to ensure compliance, sustainable businesses. technology. security, and a drives innovation in Wolters improved productivity, effective Together, we support more strengthened core to Kluwer through its user management, and strengthened transparent, just, and safe support Wolters Kluwer’s experience center of client relationships. societies around the world. digital transformation excellence, focused on across technology, customer-centric product Customers span a broad scope Customers include accounting Customers include corporaCustomers include law ﬁrms, accounting, sourcing, development, and its of hospitals and healthcare ﬁrms, corporate ﬁnance, tax and tions, small businesses, law corporate legal departments, procurement, and events artiﬁcial intelligence center organizations, individual auditing departments, governﬁrms, corporate legal departcorporations, environmental, management. of excellence, applying students and clinicians, medical ment agencies, corporations, ments, insurers, compliance health, and safety (EHS) cutting-edge technologies libraries and schools, payors, libraries, and universities. professionals, risk managers, professionals, operational risk for the next generation of life science specialists, and and ﬁnancial institutions – managers, universities, and expert solutions. retail pharmacies. including banks, credit unions, government agencies. and leasing and securities ﬁrms. Portfolio includes Emmi Patient Portfolio includes A3 Software, Portfolio includes CASH Suite, Portfolio includes Cheetah, Engagement, Health Language, ADDISON, ATX, CCH, CCH CLM Matrix, ComplianceOne, ComplyTrack, Enablon, eVision, Lexicomp, Lippincott, MediAnswerConnect, CCH Axcess, CT Corporation, Expere, IPSOA, Iter, Jura, Kleos, LaLey, Span, Ovid, POC Advisor, Sentri7, CCH Axcess iQ, CCH Tagetik, GainsKeeper, Lien Solutions, Lamyline, LEX, Leggi D’Italia, Simpliﬁ 797, UpToDate, and CCH iFirm, CCH ProSystem fx, OneSumX, Passport, Tymetrix Legisway, Navigator, NotaioNext, UpToDate Advanced. CCH OneClick, CCH Integrator, 360, and Vanceo. Veriﬁeld, and Wolters Kluwer CCH PinPoint, Genya, Prosoft, Online.de. TeamMate, and Twinﬁeld. Full list of management is available on www.wolterskluwer.com. 30 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 31 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements 2019 Key Figures Revenues 2017-2019* Key Performance Indicators* Revenues by division Revenues by type Total annual revenues € million in % 2019 2019 Guidance 2018 € million 5,000 100 Adjusted operating profit margin in % 23.6 23.0-23.5 23.1 4,612 76 78 78 4,368 4,259 1,186 Adjusted free cash flow in € million 765 750-775 759 1,166 4,000 1,109 Return on invested capital in % 11.8 10.5-11.5 10.6 75 945 1,186 Diluted adjusted EPS in € 2.76 Around 10% growth 2.48 3,000 1,234 1,413 1,295 Figures and guidance for adjusted free cash flow and diluted adjusted EPS in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18). Adjusted operating profit margin 4,612 2,000 50 and ROIC in reporting currencies. 1,054 1,068 975 1,068 25 1,000 1,413 24 914 880 945 22 22 Adjusted operating profit by division Diluted adjusted earnings per share 0 0 Health € million in euro 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Tax & Accounting 1,089 970 986 2.90 Governance, Risk & Compliance Health Recurring 1,000 320 3.00 297 305 Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting Non-recurring Governance, Risk & Compliance 750 Legal & Regulatory 388 2.75 320 329 Total adjusted operating 500 2.45 profit margin Organic revenue growth 2.50 in % in % 295 291 341 Health 2.22 23.6% 5 250 Tax & Accounting 4.3 4.3 27.0% Governance, Risk & Compliance 2.25 4 3.4 110 112 104 Legal & Regulatory 0 27.4% (52) (51) (64) Corporate 3 2.00 31.9% 2 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 11.0% 2017 2018 2019 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Revenues by media Revenues by geography Adjusted operating profit margin Adjusted free cash flow in % in % in % € million 100 100 24 800 76 77 78 807 Total employees 31 31 31 23.6 FTE at December 31 762 746 124 75 75 700 61 61 61 2,903 23.1 4,307 50 50 23 600 18,361 25 25 500 22.2 11 11 11 4,330 6,697 13 12 11 6 6 6 0 0 22 2 2 2 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Health Digital Europe Tax & Accounting Services North America Governance, Risk & Compliance Print Asia Pacific Legal & Regulatory Rest of World Corporate * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. 32 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Operational and Financial Review Revenues € million % Group revenues rose 8% overall to €4,612 million, Revenues 2018* 4,259 benefitting from the stronger U.S. dollar. The dollar Organic change 183 4 Operational performance averaged $1.12 per euro in 2019 compared to $1.18 per euro Acquisitions 32 1 in 2018. In constant currencies, revenues increased by 5%. Divestments (21) 0 Key figures Excluding both the impact of exchange rate movements Currency impact 159 3 and the effect of acquisitions and disposals, organic Revenues 2019 4,612 8 € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG growth was 4% (2018: 4%). * Restated for IFRS 16. Revenues 4,612 4,259 +8% Operating profit 908 967 -6% Revenues from North America, which accounted for 61% of group revenues, grew 4% organically. This was in line with Recurring revenues accounted for 78% of total revenues Profit for the year 669 656 +2% the prior year (2018: 4%), with moderation in Tax & (2018: 78%) and grew 5% organically (2018: 5%). Recurring Diluted EPS (€) 2.46 2.35 +4% Accounting offset by a marked acceleration in Legal & revenues include subscriptions and other renewing Net cash from operating activities 1,102 1,001 +10% Regulatory in this region. Revenues from Europe, 31% of revenue streams. Total Legal Services (LS) and Financial total revenues, saw accelerated organic growth of 5% Services (FS) transactional revenues in our Governance, Business performance – benchmark figures (2018: 4%), mainly driven by faster growth in Legal & Risk & Compliance division rose 6% organically (2018: 6%). Revenues 4,612 4,259 +8% +5% +4% Regulatory and in Tax & Accounting in this part of the Other non-recurring revenues, which include software Adjusted operating profit 1,089 986 +11% +5% +7% world. Revenues from Asia Pacific and Rest of World, 8% of licenses, implementation fees, professional services, and Adjusted operating profit margin 23.6% 23.1% total revenues, grew 5% organically (2018: 7%), slowing other non-subscription offerings, rose 1% organically Adjusted net profit 790 682 +16% +9% mainly due to Health. (2018: 6%). The group-wide trend in print book revenues deteriorated modestly (2019: 7% decline; 2018: 6% decline). Diluted adjusted EPS 2.90 2.45 +19% +11% Adjusted free cash flow 807 762 +6% +1% Revenues by type Net debt 2,199 2,249 -2% Return on invested capital (ROIC) 11.8% 10.6% € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG ∆ :% Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. Benchmark adjusted figures are performance Digital and service subscription 3,087 2,793 +11% +7% +7% measures used by management. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Print subscription 202 209 -3% -5% -5% Other recurring 292 288 +1% -4% 0% Total recurring revenues 3,581 3,290 +9% +5% +5% Highlights • Adjusted operating profit margin up 50 basis-points to Print books 212 226 -6% -8% -7% • Revenues, up 5% in constant currencies and up 4% 23.6%. LS transactional 246 214 +15% +9% +9% organically. • Profit for the year up 2%, reflecting a lower effective tax Digital & services revenues up 6% organically (89% of rate and a decrease in financing costs, partly offset by a FS transactional 105 98 +7% +1% +1% total revenues). lower operating profit. Other non-recurring 468 431 +8% +6% +1% Recurring revenues up 5% organically (78% of total • Diluted adjusted EPS €2.90, up 11% in constant Total revenues 4,612 4,259 +8% +5% +4% revenues). currencies. ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. • Operating profit down 6% • Adjusted free cash flow €807 million, up 1% in constant Adjusted operating profit up 5% in constant currencies. currencies. Prior year included disposal gains of €159 million • Return on invested capital (ROIC) improved to 11.8%. Operating profit Adjusted operating profit was €1,089 million, an increase relating to divestments in Health, Governance Risk & • Balance sheet remains strong: net-debt-to-EBITDA 1.6x Operating profit declined 6% to €908 million (2018: of 5% in constant currencies. The adjusted operating Compliance, and Legal & Regulatory. at year-end 2019. €967 million) primarily because the prior year included profit margin increased to 23.6% (2018: 23.1%). Amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable disposal gains of €159 million relating to divestments in Adjusted operating profit included a net positive one-time intangible assets increased to €182 million (2018: Health, Governance Risk & Compliance, and Legal & item of €16 million (2018: €23 million), consisting of a €175 million) due to impairments of €38 million (2018: Regulatory. Amortization and impairment of acquired one-time credit related to the modernization of one of €9 million), partly offset by assets fully amortized. identifiable intangible assets increased to €182 million our U.S. defined employee benefits plans. Excluding (2018: €175 million) due to impairments of €38 million one-time items in both years, the underlying adjusted (2018: €9 million), including €36 million related to Emmi, operating profit margin increased by 70 basis points, the patient engagement solution we acquired in 2016, driven by operational efficiencies, mix shift, and currency. partly offset by assets fully amortized. In addition, there Adjusted operating profit included restructuring costs of was the release of a €9 million payable relating to an €26 million (2018: €30 million). Restructuring relates to earnout. ongoing and new efficiency initiatives, including organizational changes, across the group. 34 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Divisional performance Health Organic growth was sustained at 4% as a marked margin was driven by Tax & Accounting and Governance, • Clinical Solutions revenues grew 6% organically, led by UpToDate which grew 9%. improvement in Legal & Regulatory compensated for Risk & Compliance. Operational efficiencies, mix shift, • Health Learning, Research & Practice revenues rose 1% organically, with digital revenues up 3%. more moderate organic growth in Health and Tax & and currency compensated for a lower level of net • Margin decline reflects lower one-time net positive items. Accounting. The increase in our adjusted operating profit one-time benefits and for increased product investment. Health Divisional summary € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG Revenues 1,186 1,109 +7% +2% +4% € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG Adjusted operating profit 320 305 +5% 0% +3% Revenues Adjusted operating profit margin 27.0% 27.5% Health 1,186 1,109 +7% +2% +4% Operating profit 243 343 -29% Tax & Accounting 1,413 1,295 +9% +6% +6% Net capital expenditure 33 36 Governance, Risk & Compliance 1,068 975 +10% +4% +4% Ultimo FTEs 2,903 2,866 Legal & Regulatory 945 880 +7% +6% +3% ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. Total revenues 4,612 4,259 +8% +5% +4% * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. Adjusted operating profit Wolters Kluwer Health revenues increased 2% in constant advertising revenues declined, while revenues related to currencies, reflecting the disposals of ProVation Medical open access research continued to grow. Print book Health 320 305 +5% 0% +3% (March 2018) and certain Allied Health assets (September revenues for medical and nursing education and practice Tax & Accounting 388 329 +18% +14% +14% 2019) as well as the deconsolidation of Medicom (March declined 5%, benefitting from the timing of distributor Governance, Risk & Compliance 341 291 +17% +11% +11% 2018). Organic growth was 4%. The adjusted operating orders. Our nursing solutions, including the recently Legal & Regulatory 104 112 -7% -7% -6% profit margin declined due to lower net positive one-time enhanced Lippincott CoursePoint+, sustained doubleCorporate (64) (51) +25% +23% +23% items. The underlying margin improved modestly despite digit organic growth while continuing medical education Total adjusted operating profit 1,089 986 +11% +5% +7% increased restructuring costs and investments in sales & recorded a decline. The unit remains focused on marketing and product development. Operating profit leveraging its quality medical and nursing content and ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. included an impairment on Emmi, our patient engagement advancing its information solutions with workflow and * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. solution, in 2019, compared to significant disposal gains in productivity tools. the prior year. Clinical Solutions (51% of divisional revenues) grew 6% organically (2018: 9%). The comparable period included two businesses (ProVation and Medicom) that were sold or deconsolidated in the first half of 2018. Our clinical decision tool UpToDate saw 9% organic growth driven by renewals and new customers. The rollout of UpToDate Advanced made progress, with over 850 hospitals now subscribed globally. Our drug information solutions delivered solid growth while investing in new features and closer integration with UpToDate. New sales of Emmi were soft as hospital spending on patient engagement solutions remained tight. In clinical software, performance was mixed. Health Learning, Research & Practice (49% of divisional revenues) revenues rose 1% (2018: 1%) on an organic basis, with digital growth of 3% largely offset by decline in print formats. Ovid, our online medical research platform, delivered good organic growth driven by subscription renewals and strong performance in Asia Pacific, led by India. Print journal subscriptions and 36 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 37 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Compliance • Corporate Performance Solutions grew 17% organically. • Legal Services sustained 5% organic growth, driven by CT Corporation. • Professional Tax & Accounting performed well, supported by software growth of 6%. • Financial Services grew 3% organically, led by our Finance, Risk & Reporting software. • Margin increase mainly reflects efficiency savings and operational gearing. • The margin increased due to operating efficiencies and one-time items. Tax & Accounting Governance, Risk & Compliance € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG Revenues 1,413 1,295 +9% +6% +6% Revenues 1,068 975 +10% +4% +4% Adjusted operating profit 388 329 +18% +14% +14% Adjusted operating profit 341 291 +17% +11% +11% Adjusted operating profit margin 27.4% 25.4% Adjusted operating profit margin 31.9% 29.8% Operating profit 344 255 +35% Operating profit 306 309 -1% Net capital expenditure 74 71 Net capital expenditure 73 65 Ultimo FTEs 6,697 6,649 Ultimo FTEs 4,330 4,155 ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting revenues grew 6% in Europe Professional Tax & Accounting (29% of divisional Wolters Kluwer Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) regulatory reporting solution. Our Compliance Solutions constant currencies and 6% organically (2018: 7% organic revenues) delivered exceptional 8% organic growth (2018: revenues grew 4% in constant currencies and 4% unit recorded stable revenues as growth in the growth). Adjusted operating profit rose 14% in constant 7%), with strong growth in on-premise software enhanced organically (2018: 4%). In May 2019, GRC acquired CLM GainsKeeper investment compliance solution and the currencies, mainly driven by efficiency savings, lower by double-digit growth in our European cloud and Matrix, a provider of contract lifecycle management OneSumX Regulatory Change Management solution was restructuring costs and operational gearing. There was a hybrid-cloud collaboration tools. All European countries software. The adjusted operating profit margin increased, offset by declines in professional services and mortgage modest benefit from a change in one-time items. where we operate saw positive growth. Italy delivered reflecting underlying cost savings and net positive filing fees. Wolters Kluwer Lien Solutions, which accounts Operating profit increased 35%, due to the increase in exceptionally strong performance as customers adopted one-time items in 2019. Operating profit declined 1%, as for over 80% of Financial Services (FS) transactional adjusted operating profit and due to lower amortization its new automated invoicing tool. The European group 2018 included significant disposal gains. revenues, saw organic growth moderate as U.S. commercial and impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets. continued to invest in rolling out cloud-based lending activity plateaued in the second half of 2019. collaboration tools for tax advisors and their clients. Legal Services (57% of divisional revenues) sustained 5% Corporate Performance Solutions (14% of divisional organic growth (2018: 5%). CT Corporation, the leading U.S. revenues) grew 17% organically (2018: 19%) with both CCH Asia Pacific & Rest of World Professional Tax & provider of registered agent and corporate legal Tagetik and TeamMate delivering double-digit growth. Accounting (6% of divisional revenues) declined on an compliance services, delivered strong organic growth CCH Tagetik expanded revenues with existing customers organic basis with mixed performances. Our Tax & driven by recurring service subscriptions and better-thanand gained new customers for its cloud-based Accounting business in China delivered strong organic expected, high single-digit organic growth in transactional performance management software and services. In growth, but this was more than offset by softness in other revenues. Enterprise Legal Management (ELM) Solutions, internal audit, TeamMate achieved strong growth in North parts of Asia Pacific and in Brazil. which supports corporate legal operations with legal America and Asia Pacific with both on-premise and spend and matter management software and analytics, cloud-based solutions. recorded muted growth as an increase in volume-linked revenue from LegalVIEW Bill Analyzer was largely offset by North America Professional Tax & Accounting (51% of lower software maintenance and professional services divisional revenues) saw a moderation in organic growth revenues amid longer sales cycles for large enterprise to 4% (2018: 6%). Software solutions recorded 6% organic deals. ELM introduced several product innovations and growth, led by CCH Axcess, our U.S. cloud-based made progress on integrating CLM Matrix. professional tax software suite, and iFirm, our global practice management solution, in Canada. During the Financial Services (43% of divisional revenues) delivered year, we invested in and launched CCH Axcess Knowledge organic growth of 3% (2018: 3%). Finance, Risk & Reporting, Coach to help support cloud customers with their audit which supports banks with OneSumX regulatory engagements. Our Research & Learning business compliance and reporting software, recorded high experienced a decline in both digital and print revenues, single-digit organic growth, reflecting new software license as the prior year benefitted from demand for information sales and professional services in Europe, Middle East & on the U.S. Tax Cuts & Jobs Act. Bank products and Africa and in Asia Pacific, as well as increased recurring training services declined. revenues from an expanded customer base. The unit is investing in a cloud-based version of our OneSumX 38 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 39 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Legal & Regulatory Corporate expenses • EHS/ORM & Legal Software grew 14% organically and now contributes 15% of division revenues. Net corporate expenses increased 23% in constant to support global human resources, financial performance • Legal & Regulatory Information Solutions saw organic growth improve to 1%. currencies. The increase in expenses partly reflects the management, and digital marketing. In addition, central • Margin decline reflects prior period one-time items, acquisitions, and increased product investment. absence of net positive one-time items of €5 million costs increased as a result of strengthening key central recorded in 2018. Underlying corporate costs increased, functions, including GDPR and data privacy. Legal & Regulatory reflecting investment in enterprise software and services € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG Corporate Revenues 945 880 +7% +6% +3% € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* ∆ ∆ CC ∆ OG Adjusted operating profit 104 112 -7% -7% -6% Adjusted operating profit (64) (51) +25% +23% +23% Adjusted operating profit margin 11.0% 12.7% Operating profit (64) (51) +25% Operating profit 79 111 -29% Net capital expenditure 1 2 Net capital expenditure 45 40 Ultimo FTEs 124 121 Ultimo FTEs 4,307 4,343 ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. ∆: % Change; ∆ CC: % Change in constant currencies (€/$ 1.18); ∆ OG: % Organic growth. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. Legal & Regulatory revenues increased 6% in constant Legal & Regulatory Information Solutions (85% of currencies including the effect of net acquisitions, divisional revenues) saw further improvement in organic including eVision (October 2018) and Legisway (September growth to 1% (2018: 0%). Digital information solutions, 2018). Excluding currency and acquisitions, organic which now make up 60% of the unit’s revenues, grew 5% revenue growth improved to 3% (2018: 1%), which was organically, more than offsetting continued decline in better than expected and followed a strong fourth print subscriptions and books. In Europe, growth was led quarter. Adjusted operating profit and the related margin by strong performances in Germany and Central Europe, declined, due to lower net positive one-time items, the including some positive one-off effects. Our U.S. Legal & initial dilutive effect of recent acquisitions, and increased Regulatory information solutions again delivered positive investment in product development and digital organic growth, with digital solutions, such as Cheetah marketing. Operating profit declined due to the absence and RBSource, delivering improved 5% organic growth. of prior year disposal gains. Ongoing restructuring initiatives drove savings, which helped fund wage inflation and increased investments to EHS/ORM & Legal Software (15% of divisional revenues), enhance content products with workflow tools. which includes our global environmental, health and safety (EHS) and operational risk management (ORM) software and our European legal software, delivered 14% organic growth. EHS/ORM software provider Enablon had an exceptionally strong year driven by higher on-premise license sales, double-digit growth in cloud subscriptions, and significant growth in professional services following 2018 customer wins. Enablon made progress on the integration of eVision and, in early 2020, completed the acquisition of CGE Risk Management Solutions. Our legal software solutions recorded robust organic growth, made progress on the integration of contract management software Legisway, and invested in product enhancements for Kleos. 40 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 41 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Financial position Working capital Balance sheet repurchased 5.5 million shares for a total consideration of € million 2019 2018* Variance Non-current assets, mainly consisting of goodwill and €350 million, including 1.0 million shares to offset Inventories 73 71 2 acquired identifiable intangible assets, increased incentive share issuance (2018: 1.3 million). At December Contract assets 137 113 24 modestly by €11 million to €6,299 million in 2019, mainly 31, 2019, share buybacks have not yet been executed for Trade receivables 1,087 1,022 65 as a result of an increase in right-of-use assets due to a an amount of €50 million under the existing mandate. Operating accounts receivable 231 230 1 new real estate lease in New York, NY, partly offset by the amortization and impairment on intangible assets for the In September 2019, we completed the reduction in Deferred income (1,679) (1,592) (87) year being higher than net expenditures. ordinary share capital of 6.7 million of the shares held in Other contract liabilities (39) (45) 6 treasury, following the share buybacks during the year. As Trade and other operating payables (859) (859) 0 Total equity increased by €126 million to €2,380 million of December 31, 2019, we held 6.4 million shares in Operating working capital (1,049) (1,060) 11 mainly due the profit for the year, partly offset by the treasury. In 2019, the total weighted average number of Cash and cash equivalents 899 783 116 share buyback and dividend payments. During 2019, we shares was 270.3 million (2018: 276.7 million). Non-operating working capital (1,183) (998) (185) Total (1,333) (1,275) (58) Balance sheet * 2018 restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* Variance Non-current assets 6,299 6,288 11 Other developments Working capital (1,333) (1,275) (58) Financing results Total equity 2,380 2,254 126 Financing results amounted to a cost of €53 million (2018: Adjusted profit before tax was €1,034 million (2018: Net debt 2,199 2,249 (50) €79 million cost), including a €9 million net gain on €911 million), up 14% overall and up 7% in constant Net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio 1.6 1.8 (0.2) disposal of an equity-accounted investee (the sale of a currencies. The benchmark tax rate on adjusted profit * 2018 restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. 40% interest in an Austrian information services before tax was 23.6% (2018: 25.1%). specialist) and a financial asset. The lower financing results also reflect the full twelve-month effect of lower Earnings per Share Net debt and leverage Working capital borrowing costs after the redemption of our €750 million, Total profit for the year increased 2% to €669 million Net debt at December 31, 2019, amounted to €2,199 million Operating working capital amounted to €(1,049) million, 6.375% senior Eurobond in April 2018, and higher interest (2018: €656 million) and diluted earnings per share (2018: €2,249 million). The 2019 net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio compared to €(1,060) million in 2018, an increase of income on cash balances. Adjusted net financing costs increased 4% to €2.46 (2018: €2.35). was 1.6x (2018: 1.8x), due to an increase in EBITDA €11 million. This increase includes the autonomous decreased to €58 million (2018: €77 million). combined with lower net debt. The reduction in net debt movements in working capital offset by the strengthening Diluted adjusted EPS increased 19% overall and 11% in is attributable to strong free cash flow combined with of the U.S. dollar. Non-operating working capital Taxation constant currencies to €2.90 (2018: €2.45), reflecting the lower spend on acquisitions and share buybacks. decreased to €(1,183) million, compared to €(998) million Profit before tax decreased 4% to €858 million (2018: 16% increase in adjusted net profit to €790 million (2018: in 2018, mainly due to the private placement of €890 million). The effective tax rate decreased to 22.0% €682 million) and a 2% reduction in the diluted weighted Under IFRS 16, net debt includes short-term and long-term €250 million being reclassified from long-term debt as it (2018: 26.3%). The prior year was impacted by taxable average number of ordinary shares outstanding to lease liabilities. Total lease liabilities increased to becomes payable in 2020. gains on the divestments of Corsearch and ProVation 272.2 million (2018: 278.8 million). €368 million (2018: €255 million), largely attributable to Medical. The current year’s effective tax rate was our new office facility in New York, NY. impacted by favorable tax law changes and the Return on invested capital (ROIC) conclusion of tax audits. In 2019, the ROIC was 11.8% (2018: 10.6%), mainly due to a higher adjusted operating profit. 42 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 43 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Cash flow 2020 Full-Year Outlook € million, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* Variance Net cash flow from operating activities 1,102 1,001 101 Our overall guidance for full-year 2020 is provided in the to achieve an increase in the full-year adjusted operating table below. We expect to deliver another year of solid profit margin, driven by Tax & Accounting and Legal & Net cash flow used in investing activities (231) (83) (148) organic growth, supported by all four divisions. We expect Regulatory. Net cash flow used in financing activities (631) (1,499) 868 Adjusted operating cash flow 1,049 1,026 23 2020 Full-year outlook Capital expenditure (226) (214) (12) Adjusted free cash flow 807 762 45 Performance indicators 2020 Guidance 2019 Diluted adjusted free cash flow per share (€) 2.96 2.73 0.23 Adjusted operating profit margin in % 23.5-24.0 23.6 Cash conversion ratio (%) 96 104 Adjusted free cash flow in € million 800-825 807 * 2018 restated for IFRS 16. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. ROIC in % Around 12 11.8 Diluted adjusted EPS in € Midto high single-digit growth 2.90 The net cash inflow for 2019 was €240 million (2018: net Adjusted free cash flow was €807 million (2018: Note: Guidance for adjusted operating profit margin and ROIC are in reporting currencies and assume a 2020 average U.S. dollar rate of approximately €/$ 1.11. Guidance for adjusted free cash flow and earnings per share are in constant currencies (€/$ 1.12). Guidance for cash outflow of €581 million) because the net cash from €762 million), up 6% overall and up 1% in constant adjusted EPS includes the estimated effect of the announced up to €350 million share buyback planned for 2020. operating activities outweighed the net cash used in currencies. Lower cash conversion was compensated for financingand investing activities. by lower interest and tax paid. Our guidance is based on constant exchange rates. In 2020 Outlook by division Adjusted operating cash flow was €1,049 million, Dividends paid to shareholders during 2019 amounted to 2019, Wolters Kluwer generated more than 60% of its Health: We expect organic growth to be broadly in line up 2% overall due to the stronger U.S. dollar (2018: €280 million (2018: €277 million) and included the 2018 revenues and adjusted operating profit in North America. with 2019, with Clinical Solutions continuing to drive the €1,026 million) and down 2% in constant currencies. final dividend and the 2019 interim dividend. As a rule of thumb, based on our 2019 currency profile, division’s growth. We expect the full-year adjusted Cash conversion ratio declined to 96% (2018: 104%), each 1 U.S. cent move in the average €/$ exchange rate for operating profit margin to be broadly stable due to mainly due to working capital movements related to During the year, we deployed €350 million (2018: the year causes an opposite change of approximately 2 increased investment in sales & marketing and product the timing of payments. €550 million) of free cash flow towards repurchasing shares. euro cents in diluted adjusted EPS. development. Investment is expected to weigh on the first-half 2020 margin. Paid financing costs, excluding lease interest paid, Acquisitions and divestments Restructuring costs are included in adjusted operating declined substantially to €46 million (2018: €96 million), Total acquisition spending, net of cash acquired and profit. We expect restructuring costs to be in the range of Tax & Accounting: We expect organic growth to moderate as the prior year included the final coupon payment on including transaction costs, was €35 million (2018: €10-€15 million in 2020 (2019: €26 million). We expect in 2020 due to a challenging comparable in Europe the 6.375% senior Eurobond redeemed in April 2018. €170 million) and primarily relates to the acquisition of adjusted net financing costs of approximately €60 million (following exceptionally strong growth in 2019) and due to CLM Matrix for €31 million by Governance, Risk & in constant currencies , including approximately some moderation in the United States. We expect the Income tax paid reduced to €195 million (2018: Compliance. Deferred payments on prior year deals, €10 million in lease interest charges. We expect the full-year adjusted operating profit margin to see a further €206 million), reflecting the favorable timing of tax including earnouts, amounted to €1 million (2018: benchmark tax rate on adjusted pre-tax profits to be in increase. payments and refunds, while 2018 included tax paid on €12 million). Divestment proceeds, net of cash disposed the range of 24.0%-25.0% for 2020. disposal gains. and transaction costs, were €39 million (2018: Governance, Risk & Compliance: We expect modest €304 million) and relate to the divestments of our 40% Capital expenditure is expected to increase, but stay improvement in the division’s organic growth Net cash use of restructuring provisions amounted to stake in an Austrian information business, certain Allied within our normal range of 5%-6% of total revenues (2019: notwithstanding slight moderation in transactional €6 million (2018: €5 million cash outflow), relating to net Health titles, and other small assets. 4.9%). Cash repayments of lease liabilities are expected to volumes in 2020. We expect the adjusted operating profit restructuring additions of €13 million and appropriations be in line with depreciation of right-of-use assets (2019: margin to be marginally lower than in 2019 due to of €19 million during the year. Leverage and Financial Policy €80 million). We expect the cash conversion ratio to be increased product investment and the absence of Wolters Kluwer uses its cash flow to invest in the broadly in line with prior year, around 95% (2019: 96%). one-time benefits. Net capital expenditure was €226 million or 4.9% of total business, both organically and through acquisitions, to Our guidance assumes no additional significant change to revenues (2018: €214 million; 5.0% of revenues). The prior maintain optimal leverage, and to provide returns to the scope of operations. We may make further Legal & Regulatory: We expect organic growth to year included a €9 million positive impact related to the shareholders. We regularly assess our financial position acquisitions or disposals which can be dilutive to margins moderate slightly from 2019 levels due to a challenging sale of office real estate. Most of our capital expenditure and evaluate the appropriate level of debt in view of our and earnings in the near term. comparable. We expect the adjusted operating profit relates to the development of new and enhanced expectations for cash flow, investment plans, interest margin to show improvement. products and technology platforms. rates, and capital market conditions. Cash repayment of lease liabilities, including lease While we may temporarily deviate from our leverage interest paid, increased to €80 million (2018: €74 million), target at times, we continue to believe that, in the longer reflecting a new office facility in New York, NY. run, a net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of around 2.5x remains appropriate for our business given the high proportion of recurring revenues and resilient cash flow. 44 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 45 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Corporate Governance and period. For the current performance periods (up to and including the 2019-2021 cycle), Executive Board members These resolutions are listed in the By-Laws of the Supervisory Board and include: are not required to retain the shares for a period of five • Transactions in which there are conﬂicts of interest with Risk Management years, as recommended in Best Practice Provision 3.1.2 (vi) of the Corporate Governance Code. Executive Board members that are of material signiﬁcance for the company or the Executive Board member; • Acquisitions or divestments of which the value is at Term of appointment least equal to 1% of the consolidated revenues of the Corporate Governance Since the introduction of the first Corporate Governance company; Code in 2004, Executive Board members are appointed for • The issuance of new shares or granting of rights to a period of four years, after which reappointment is subscribe for shares; and This chapter provides an outline of the broad corporate governance structure of the company. possible. The existing contract with Ms. McKinstry, who • The issue of bonds or other external ﬁnancing of which Wolters Kluwer N.V., a publicly listed company organized under Dutch law, is the parent company of was appointed before the introduction of the ﬁrst the value exceeds 2.5% of annual consolidated revenues. the Wolters Kluwer group. The corporate governance structure of the company is based on the Corporate Governance Code and has an employment contract for an indeﬁnite period, will be honored. The responsibilities of the Supervisory Board are set out company’s Articles of Association, the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the in the By-Laws of the Supervisory Board, published on ‘Corporate Governance Code’), and all applicable laws and regulations. Severance arrangements www.wolterskluwer.com. With respect to future Executive Board appointments, the Introduction the Executive Board is provided in Executive Board and company will, as a policy, comply with Best Practice Appointment and composition The company has a two-tier board structure consisting of Supervisory Board. Provision 3.2.3 of the Corporate Governance Code The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. The regarding the maximum severance remuneration in the the General Meeting of Shareholders. The full procedure Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are Remuneration event of dismissal. In line with this Best Practice of appointment and dismissal of Supervisory Board responsible for the corporate governance structure. This The remuneration of the Executive Board is determined Provision, the contract with Mr. Entricken contains a members is explained in the company’s Articles of Corporate Governance chapter comprises the corporate by the Supervisory Board based on the remuneration severance payment of one year’s base salary. However, Association, available on www.wolterskluwer.com. The governance statement as specified in section 2a of the policy approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. the company will honor the existing contract with Ms. current composition of the Supervisory Board can be Decree with respect to the contents of the annual The remuneration policy for the Executive Board was McKinstry who was appointed before the introduction of found in Executive Board and Supervisory Board, and management report (Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag). adopted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders the ﬁrst Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Report of the Supervisory Board. The composition of the Wolters Kluwer complies with all Principles and Best in 2004 and most recently amended in 2011. In line with Supervisory Board shall always be such that the members Practice Provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, the new Dutch law, which implements the amended Change of control are able to act critically and independently of one unless stipulated otherwise in this chapter. Potential European Shareholder Rights Directive, the remuneration The employment contracts of the Executive Board another, the Executive Board, and any particular future material corporate developments might justify policy was amended. The amended version of the members and a small group of senior executives contain interests. As a policy, the Supervisory Board in principle deviations from the Corporate Governance Code at the remuneration policy will be submitted to the Annual stipulations with respect to a change of control of the aims at having all its members independent from the moment of occurrence. The Corporate Governance Code is General Meeting of Shareholders of April 23, 2020. The company. According to these stipulations, in case of a company, which currently is the case. The independence available on www.mccg.nl. Supervisory Board is responsible for the execution of the change of control, the relevant persons will receive 100% of Supervisory Board members is monitored on an remuneration policy, based on the advice of the Selection of the number of conditional rights on shares awarded to ongoing basis, based on the criteria of independence as Executive Board and Remuneration Committee. Detailed information them with respect to pending Long-Term Incentive Plans set out in Best Practice Provisions 2.1.7 and 2.1.8 of the The Executive Board consists of the CEO and CFO and is about the remuneration policy and its application in 2019 of which the performance period has not yet ended. In Corporate Governance Code and Clause 1.5 of the entrusted with the management and day-to-day can be found in the Remuneration Report. addition, they are entitled to a cash severance payment if Supervisory Board By-Laws. Further information on the operations of the company. The Executive Board is their employment agreement would end following a Supervisory Board members can be found in the section responsible for achieving the company’s aims, the Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Executive change of control. Executive Board and Supervisory Board. strategy and associated risk proﬁle, the development of Board members can earn ordinary shares after a vesting results, and sustainability. The responsibilities are set out period of three years, subject to clear and objective Supervisory Board The number of supervisory board memberships of all in the By-Laws of the Executive Board. These By-Laws three-year performance criteria established in advance. The Supervisory Board supervises the policies of the Supervisory Board members is limited to such extent that have been approved by the Supervisory Board and are As per the amended remuneration policy, the Executive Executive Board and the general affairs of the company the proper performance of their duties is assured. The available on www.wolterskluwer.com. In fulfilling its Board members will be required, in line with Best Practice and its enterprise, taking into account the relevant number of board memberships of all Supervisory Board management responsibilities, the Executive Board takes Provision 3.1.2 (vi) of the Corporate Governance Code, to interests of the company’s stakeholders, and advises the members is currently in compliance with the maximum into account the interests of the company and its hold the shares (net of taxes) after vesting for two more Executive Board. The supervision includes the number of board seats allowed under Dutch law. affiliated business, as well as the relevant interests of the years (starting with the 2020-2022 performance period). effectiveness of the company’s internal risk management company’s stakeholders. The members of the Executive However, if an Executive Board member is eligible for a and control systems and the integrity and quality of the Provision of information Board are appointed by the General Meeting of company-sponsored deferral program and chooses to ﬁnancial reporting. The Supervisory Board also has due Wolters Kluwer considers it important that the Shareholders. The full procedure for appointment and participate by deferring LTIP proceeds upon vesting, then regard for sustainability issues. In addition, certain Supervisory Board members are well-informed about the dismissal of members of the Executive Board is explained such Executive Board member will be required to hold the resolutions of the Executive Board must be approved by business and operations of the company. The Chairman of in the company’s Articles of Association, available on remaining vested shares or a minimum of 50% of vested the Supervisory Board. the Supervisory Board, the CEO and Chairman of the www.wolterskluwer.com. Information on the members of shares (net of taxes), whichever is higher for a two-year Executive Board, and the Company Secretary monitor, on 46 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 47 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements an ongoing basis, that the Supervisory Board receives female, both in the Supervisory Board and the Executive For more information, please see the section Embracing business model and policies relating to environmental, adequate information. In addition, the CEO sends written Board, and at the division CEO level. People and Society in the Report of the Executive Board. social, and employee-related matters, respect for human updates to the Supervisory Board about important rights, anti-corruption, and bribery matters. This includes events. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the On December 31, 2019, the Supervisory Board had a female Long-term value creation is embedded in both our information on the results and risks related to these CEO hold several meetings and calls per year outside of representation of 43%. Currently (after the resignation of 2019-2021 strategy, Accelerating Our Value, and our matters, as well as the key performance indicators. formal meetings, to discuss the course of events at the Ms. Russo per year-end 2019), 33% of the Supervisory Board company culture. We accomplish our mission of delivering The risk proﬁle of the company with respect to company. members are female, 50% of the Executive Board members deep impact when it matters most through protecting environmental, social, employee, and human rightsare female, and 75% of the division CEO’s are female people’s health and prosperity and contributing to a safe related matters, is considered relatively low, due to the The Supervisory Board also has direct contact with layers (divisions: Health, Tax & Accounting, Governance, Risk & and just society. More information on our strategy, value markets we operate in, the types of products and services of management below Executive Board level. Operating Compliance, and Legal & Regulatory). After the appointment creation model, and culture can be found in the Report of we deliver, our highly qualiﬁed employees, and the managers, including divisional CEOs, are regularly invited of Ms. Vandebroek at the AGM of April 23, 2020, the the Executive Board. customers and suppliers we deal with. to present to the Supervisory Board on the operations in percentage female representation in the Supervisory Board general and business development. In addition, the will return to 43%. The Supervisory Board composition also Risk management Shareholders and the General Meeting of Shareholders company facilitates visits to business units and individual comprises expertise within the broad information industry The Executive Board is responsible for identifying and At least once a year, Wolters Kluwer holds a General meetings with staff and line managers. Furthermore, as well as speciﬁc market segments in which the company managing the risks associated with the company’s Meeting of Shareholders. The agenda of the Annual various staff members attend the Audit Committee operates. Four nationalities are represented on the strategy and activities and is supervised by the General Meeting of Shareholders shall in each case meetings. Supervisory Board. The composition of the Executive Board Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee undertakes contain the report of the Executive Board, the report of and Supervisory Board is in line with the diversity policy preparatory work for the Supervisory Board in this area. the Supervisory Board, the remuneration report, the Committees of the Supervisory Board and Dutch law. For more information see Executive Board Wolters Kluwer has implemented internal risk adoption of the ﬁnancial statements, and the proposal to The Supervisory Board has two standing committees: the and Supervisory Board, and the Corporate Governance management and control systems which are embedded in distribute dividends or other distributions. Resolutions to Audit Committee and the Selection and Remuneration section on the website. the operations of the businesses to identify signiﬁcant release the members of the Executive Board and Committee. The responsibilities of these committees can risks to which the company is exposed, and to enable the Supervisory Board from liability for their respective be found in their respective Terms of Reference, which are Insider Dealing Policy effective management of those risks. The aim of the duties shall be voted on separately. Shareholders who published on www.wolterskluwer.com. A summary of the The members of the Executive Board and Supervisory systems is to provide a reasonable level of assurance on alone or jointly represent at least half a percent (0.5%) of main activities of these committees, as well as the Board are bound to the Wolters Kluwer Insider Dealing the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting. For a detailed the issued capital of Wolters Kluwer shall have the right composition, can be found in the Report of the Policy and are not allowed to trade in Wolters Kluwer description of the risks and the internal risk management to request the Executive Board or Supervisory Board to Supervisory Board. securities during closed periods. These periods begin and control systems, reference is made to Risk put items on the agenda of a General Meeting of either on the ﬁrst business day of the quarter, or 30 Management. Shareholders, provided that such requests are made in Remuneration calendar days prior to the publication of Wolters Kluwer’s writing at least 60 days before a General Meeting of The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is annual results, half-year results, and first-quarter trading Sustainability Shareholders. determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The update and nine-month trading update, whichever is The Executive Board and Supervisory Board are remuneration does not depend on the results of the earlier. The day after the announcement of these results committed to Wolters Kluwer’s sustainability strategy. Voting at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders company. The Supervisory Board members do not receive or updates, the Board members can trade again, with Under supervision of the CEO and Chairman of the In 2019, Wolters Kluwer again took active steps to try to shares or stock options by way of remuneration, nor shall prior approval of the securities compliance ofﬁcer which Executive Board, the Senior Vice President, General reach a high percentage of shareholders present or they be granted loans. The Supervisory Board proposes to will be granted if they do not have inside information at Counsel/Company Secretary, is responsible for the represented at the Annual General Meeting of increase its remuneration to the Annual General Meeting that point in time. company’s sustainability strategy and our Corporate Shareholders. These steps included making standard of Shareholders which will be held on April 23, 2020, as Sustainability team. To communicate the goals and proxy forms and voting instruction forms available online, explained in the Report of the Supervisory Board. In line Value creation and culture progress achieved, sustainability-related (non-ﬁnancial) enabling shareholders to give voting instructions with the new Dutch law which implements the amended The Executive Board has adopted four company values information is included in this Annual Report. A separate electronically prior to the meeting, and actively European Shareholder Rights Directive, the Supervisory that serve as guidelines for our employees and are at the Sustainability Data Report is issued jointly with the contacting larger shareholders to inquire if they intended Board established a remuneration policy for the heart of the company’s future success. The Business Annual Report and lists the sustainability-related data to vote during the Annual General Meeting of Supervisory Board. This remuneration policy will also be Principles serve as the company’s code of conduct and the company reports on. In addition, a dedicated section Shareholders. As a result, shareholders with voting rights submitted to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders are an umbrella for several other policies and principles. on the company’s website shows the ongoing for approximately 73% of the issued capital of the of April 23, 2020. For more information, see Remuneration These policies cover a wide range of domains to ensure sustainability activities and accomplishments. company were present or represented at the Annual Report. the continuous compliance with high business standards. General Meeting of Shareholders in 2019. Further, the company has put in place a procedure to Non-financial information statement Diversity report any suspected misconduct or irregularities In the chapters Corporate Governance, the Report of the Amendment Articles of Association The company’s diversity policy for the Supervisory Board, through various channels, including SpeakUp, the global Executive Board, and Risk Management, Wolters Kluwer A resolution to amend the Articles of Association may Executive Board, and division CEOs is published on the reporting system, allowing employees to report their discloses non-ﬁnancial information as required under the only be passed by the General Meeting of Shareholders at company website as Annex to the Supervisory Board concerns in their own language to the Ethics & Non-Financial Information Decree (Besluit bekendmaking the proposal of the Executive Board subject to the By-Laws. Elements of diversity include nationality, Compliance Committee. Our company values, Business niet-ﬁnanciële informatie) and section 2:391(1) of the approval of the Supervisory Board. The most recent gender, age, and expertise. The target is to have a Principles and related policies, and SpeakUp contribute Dutch Civil Code. As such, Wolters Kluwer has issued amendment of the Articles of Association took place in representation of at least 30% male and at least 30% to a culture focused on long-term value creation. non-ﬁnancial information statement by disclosing its 2016. 48 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 49 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Issuance of shares are independent from the company. See Report of the Risk Management The Articles of Association of the company determine that Wolters Kluwer Preference Shares Foundation for more shares shall be issued at the proposal of the Executive information. Board and by virtue of a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders, subject to designation of the Executive Information pursuant to Decree Clause 10 Take-over This section provides an overview of Wolters Kluwer’s approach to risk management, the main risks Board by the General Meeting of Shareholders. At the Directive facing the company and the organization, as well as processes and actions to identify, assess, and Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of April 18, 2019, The information speciﬁed in both clause 10 of the mitigate these risks. the Executive Board was granted the authority for a Take-over Directive and the Decree, which came into force period of 18 months to issue new shares, with exclusion of on December 31, 2006 (Decree Clause 10 Take-over pre-emptive rights, subject to approval of the Directive), can be found in this chapter and in Wolters Responsibility for risk management Supervisory Board. The authorization is limited to a Kluwer Shares and Bonds. The Executive Board is responsible for overseeing risk The ICF is deployed by the operating business units, the maximum of 10% of the issued capital on the date of the management and internal controls within Wolters Kluwer. corporate ofﬁce, Global Business Services, the Digital meeting. Legal structure The company has implemented internal risk management eXperience Group, and reviewed and tested by internal The ultimate parent company of the Wolters Kluwer group and control processes, which are generally integrated control officers. An annual risk assessment program for Acquisition of shares in the company is Wolters Kluwer N.V. In 2002, Wolters Kluwer N.V. into the operations of the businesses. The aim is to timely ﬁnancial and IT general control risks determines the Acquisition of shares in the company (share buybacks) abolished the voluntary application of the structure identify signiﬁcant risks to which the company is exposed, scope and controls to be tested. As part of that scope, key may only be effected after authorization by the General regime (structuurregime). As a consequence, the to enable the effective management of those risks, and to controls are tested annually. The results of testing are Meeting of Shareholders, and while respecting the structure regime became applicable to Wolters Kluwer provide a reasonable level of assurance on the reliability reported to management, the Audit Committee, and restrictions imposed by the Articles of Association of the Holding Nederland B.V., which is the parent company of of the ﬁnancial reporting of the Wolters Kluwer group. The internal auditors on a quarterly basis. Where needed, company. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Dutch operating subsidiaries. Wolters Kluwer Executive Board reviews an annual assessment of remedial action plans are designed and implemented to of April 18, 2019, the authorization to acquire shares in the International Holding B.V. is the direct or indirect parent pertinent risks and mitigating actions and establishes the address signiﬁcant risks as derived from internal control company was granted to the Executive Board for a period company of the operating subsidiaries outside of the risk appetite. Based on this assessment, the Executive testing, and internal and external audits. of 18 months. The authorization is limited to a maximum Netherlands. Board reviews the design and effectiveness of the of 10% of the issued capital on the date of the meeting. internal risk management and control systems, taking Internal auditing is an independent and objective On December 31, 2019, Wolters Kluwer N.V. had 6,360,612 For additional information and documents related to the into consideration the company’s risk appetite and the assurance and consulting activity that is guided by a shares in the company (2.33% interest). Corporate Governance structure of Wolters Kluwer, please observations and reports of the internal auditor and the philosophy of adding value to improve the operations of visit the Corporate Governance section on Corporate Risk Committee. The internal risk management Wolters Kluwer. It assists in accomplishing its objectives Preference shares www.wolterskluwer.com. and control systems cannot provide absolute assurance by bringing a systematic and disciplined approach to Wolters Kluwer N.V. and the Wolters Kluwer Preference regarding the achievement of the company’s objectives or evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the Shares Foundation (the Foundation) have concluded an the reliability of the ﬁnancial reporting, or entirely organization’s governance, risk management, and internal agreement based on which preference shares can be prevent material errors, losses, fraud, and violation of controls. The global Internal Audit department works taken by the Foundation. This option on preference applicable laws and regulations. according to an audit plan which is discussed with the shares is at present a measure that could be considered external auditors, the Executive Board, and the Audit as a potential protection at Wolters Kluwer against Managing risks is integrated into the conduct of business Committee. The plan is approved by the Executive Board exercising inﬂuence by a third party on the policy of the of our divisions and operating entities, supported by and the Supervisory Board. The audit plan is based on company without the consent of the Executive Board and several staff functions. The Executive Board is informed risk assessments and focuses on strategy execution, Supervisory Board, including events that could threaten by division management about risks as part of the regular ﬁnancial reporting risks, and operational risks, including the strategy, continuity, independence, identity, or planning and reporting cycles on divisional and IT-related risks. coherence between the activities of the company. The operational entity levels. The Corporate Risk Committee, Foundation is entitled to exercise the option on consisting of representatives of various functional The global Risk Management department facilitates risk preference shares in such a way that the number of departments, meets periodically and monitors material prevention, protection, and response programs via preference shares taken will be no more than 100% of the risks and remediating actions with a focus on companyprocurement of insurance, claims and incident number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares at the wide, non-business speciﬁc risks. The Committee also management, business continuity management, loss time of exercise. Among others by the exercise of the oversees the mitigation of certain risks that emerge and control programs, and other initiatives to mitigate option on the preference shares by the Foundation, the require a centralized approach. speciﬁc risks. The Internal Audit, Internal Control, Group Executive Board and the Supervisory Board will have the Accounting & Reporting, Legal, Treasury, Tax, and Risk possibility to determine their position with respect to, for Risk management and control systems Management departments provide quarterly reports to example, a party making a bid on the shares of Wolters The company has an Internal Control Framework for the Audit Committee and the Executive Board. Kluwer and its plans, or with respect to a third party that ﬁnancial reporting (ICF), based on the COSO (Committee of otherwise wishes to exercise decisive inﬂuence, and Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) enables the Boards to examine and implement 2013 framework, which is designed to provide reasonable alternatives. All members of the Board of the Foundation assurance that the results of the business are accurately reﬂected in its internal and external ﬁnancial reporting. 50 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 51 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk categories and risk appetite Strategic & operational risks Wolters Kluwer broadly classiﬁes risks into the following categories: strategic & operational, legal & compliance, Risk description and impact Mitigation financial, and ﬁnancial reporting. The tables on the following pages outline the 22 main risks the company has Economy and markets assessed up to the date of this Annual Report. It is not the Global and regional economic In 2019, the company continued progress in shifting the company’s portfolio intention to provide an exhaustive description of all conditions may have a negative effect towards digital and high-growth businesses. Recurring revenues represent on several products. The impact of 78% of the company’s consolidated revenues, reinforcing the company’s possible risks. There may be risks that are not known yet these conditions on the overall resilience. Furthermore, revenues come from a diversified product portfolio, or the company has not yet fully assessed. It is also portfolio will depend on the severity customer segments, and geographic footprint bringing benefits of possible that existing risks have been assessed as not of the economic issue, the countries diversification. We continued reshaping the business through strategic signiﬁcant, which could in the future develop into a or regions affected, and potential acquisitions and divestments. The company monitors relevant political and material exposure for the company and have a signiﬁcant government responses. Our more macroeconomic issues (e.g. Brexit) in terms of risks and opportunities. At this adverse impact on its business. The company’s risk cyclical products, which include moment, Brexit is not believed to have a direct material impact on Wolters management and internal control systems have been training activities, advertising, books Kluwer’s business. designed to identify, mitigate, and respond to risks in a (Health/LR), and lending-related and corporate formation-related timely manner. However, full assurance cannot be transactions (GRC), may be especially attained. sensitive to economic conditions. The risk appetite of the main risks is qualified as Products balanced, conservative, or minimal. To achieve its The decline of revenues coming from The company mitigates the decline of print-related revenues through strategic goals, Wolters Kluwer is prepared to take duly our legacy print business, which is a upgrading customers from print to digital products, customer retention balanced risks in certain strategic areas, such as small proportion of our portfolio, management, and upselling opportunities. The company continues assessing acquisitions, expansion in high-growth countries, and the including books and print-based its portfolio, leading to divestment of legacy businesses offset by launch of new innovative products. With respect to other subscriptions, may further accelerate. acquisitions in growing markets and organic growth. Most of our print portfolio is in Health risk categories, the approach of the company towards (HLRP), Legal & Regulatory, and a risks could be qualiﬁed as conservative, with regulatory small piece in Tax & Accounting. compliance and ﬁnancial reporting risks as the most conservative categories. The company carefully weighs Competition risks against potential rewards. Actions to prevent and Wolters Kluwer faces competitive The company mitigates competitive risks by the current portfolio diversified mitigate risks and uncertainties are summarized for each challenges from existing and new by customer segment and product mix, with high recurring revenues, of the individual risks in the tables on the following competitors, including free availability providing natural barriers to entry. The company further performs an analysis pages. of some sources of information. of its competitive landscape to focus on areas of concentration risk, growth risk, and margin risk and various levers in play to address and mitigate. We continue to invest 8%-10% of revenues annually in product development to expand offerings in expert solutions and services to support pricing levels and growth, and to transform our legacy information products. Trends impacting business models Technological or demographic trends The company actively monitors trends in the markets in which the company might affect current business models. operates and that might affect its business in the future. We ensure to have a These developments could for strong understanding of evolving customer needs by closely monitoring net example include disruptive promotor scores, actively engaging via customer advisory boards, and hosting technologies, such as the impact of and participating in leading industry conferences. Further, we continue the artiﬁcial intelligence on the activities adoption of advanced technologies throughout the company via our of professionals. In addition, new technology centers of excellence, innovation incentive programs, such as the generations of customers might Global Innovation Awards, and division-specific initiatives. Deep expect a different approach and understanding of our customers, enabled by strong advanced technological different tools and solutions to capabilities, continues to allow the company to transform its portfolio of support them in their work. information, software solutions, and services, enhance its expert solutions, and ensuring alignment with longer-term trends. Finally, maintaining a diverse workforce, with good understanding of current and future customer needs, also contributes to safeguarding future value creation by the company. 52 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 53 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk description and impact Mitigation Risk description and impact Mitigation Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) IT and cybersecurity Risks with respect to acquisitions The company has strict strategic and ﬁnancial criteria for acquiring new Wolters Kluwer is exposed to ITThe company takes active steps to mitigate IT and cybersecurity risks by primarily relate to the integration of businesses. The company’s investment decisions are very selective: the focus related risks and cyber threats that increasing the investment in a globally managed cybersecurity program to the acquired companies, retaining key is on businesses with proven track record (relatively lower risk), that are could affect our IT infrastructure and effectively manage execution of project plans and provide management personnel, and realization of relatively predictable. We conduct broad-based due diligence of acquisitions, system availability, applications, and accountability at various levels. The company adopted the National Institute projected sales and synergies. using internal expertise and top-notch external due diligence and legal company and customer data. of Standards and Technology, Cyber Security Framework (NIST-CSF) to expand professionals. We also maintain relationships with preferred due diligence the maturity-based model of our cybersecurity program into a risk-based suppliers who have deep expertise in our targeted sectors, and incorporate model. Further, we matured our controls for industry requirements by lessons learned from prior transactions. The company uses contractual continuously assessing them against industry compliance programs, i.e. SOC 2 indemnities and warranties from the seller, and deal structures, such as and ISO requirements. Also, we strengthened IT disaster recovery and updated earnout agreements to retain management and to assure alignment between our incident management capabilities to account for cyberattacks. The Annual the purchase price and the performance of the acquired company. Compliance Training program for all employees was again provided in 2019, Generally, acquisitions are expected to be accretive to adjusted earnings per consisting of policy education and online security modules. We also continued share in year one and cover the company’s weighted average cost of capital updating and aligning local policies/standards with global policies. within three to ﬁve years. Post-merger integration plans are developed with assistance from the company’s internal corporate carve out & integration We implemented a mobile device management solution to protect our mobile team. The Executive Board approves an acquisition integration plan prior to devices and are actively implementing Multi Factor Authentication (MFA) to all completing an acquisition, which is actively managed and monitored after users accessing our main internal IT systems. We completed SOC2 completion. In addition, capital allocation to M&A is very balanced. assessments on our cloud services and conducted risk evaluations for all our critical vendors through questionnaires and on-site audits. Further, we Divestments improved network resilience with the implementation of the network peering Execution of the company’s strategy is To mitigate risks related to material divestments, the company usually carries point, and customer service availability with the implementation of an also supported by the divestment of out a vendor due diligence and engages external experts for such due additional cloud-based solution to enhance availability. non-core activities. The ability to diligence and execution of the transaction. successfully divest operations can depend IT General Controls form an integral part of Wolters Kluwer’s Internal Control on the historical and projected perforFramework and are aligned with the Global Information Security Policy. mance of the business, economic and Controls over data and security programs are periodically tested to ensure market circumstances, competitive personal data is adequately protected. dynamics, contractual obligations, shared costs within the group, the ability of the The company will continue to strengthen its security and incident response business to operate stand-alone, plans throughout 2020. IT and cybersecurity are standing Corporate Risk retention of key personnel, the buyer’s Committee agenda items. ability to realize synergies, and other factors. Supply chain, technological developments, and projects To mitigate supply chain risks, the company applies third-party risk Our businesses could be adversely management criteria when choosing external partners and ensures detailed affected by the dependency on our operating and service agreements with these external providers. We monitor supply chain, including but not limited progress and performance of key vendors during the term of agreement by to parties delivering outsourced and oversight boards and program management teams. Centrally managed offshored data center services, suppliers are subject to due diligence screening and requested to sign the software development, and Wolters Kluwer Supplier Code of Conduct or provide an equivalent standard. maintenance activities, including Over the past years, we have set a roadmap for consolidation and back-ofﬁce transaction processing. simpliﬁcation of IT infrastructure and for implementing more service capabilities to support customers. Implementing new technology-related initiatives for delivering Wolters In addition, we implemented the procurement-hub, a transformational change Kluwer’s products and services, as to our sourcing and procurement operations. This includes a sourcing and well as achieving cost efﬁciencies procurement-wide enterprise solution and streamlined processes to further through technology/IT sourcing centralize our supplier onboarding and third-party risk management activities. initiatives, are inherently complex and are subjected to many execution risks The Corporate Quality Assurance team aims to improve the success of large during the development and change initiatives by providing assurance that the key projects can move to implementation phases. the next stage of development or implementation, and by transferring lessons learned from one project to another. This team also supports standardization of change methodologies and frameworks. 54 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 55 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk description and impact Mitigation Risk description and impact Mitigation People and organization Brand and reputation The success of the company is highly The company ensures its ability to attract and retain talent through With the increasing prominence of the To mitigate brand and reputation risks, the company has established the dependent on its ability to attract and competitive, market-based rewards with a focus on pay for performance, Wolters Kluwer brand, the company cross-functional Global Brand Organization that oversees the brand strategy retain talent with the skills and aligned with individual and company achievements where appropriate, potentially becomes more vulnerable and implementation work by the Global Branding & Communications (GBC) experience to deliver on current and beneﬁts benchmarked in local markets, and career development opportunities for brand or reputation risks. team. The GBC team works closely with other corporate functions and the future requirements. within the company. We have formal talent management programs that businesses to grow the equity and awareness of the brand while monitoring incorporate career progression tools, succession planning, companyany potential reputational risks. sponsored learning programs, and consistently applied performance evaluation systems. In addition, we measure our recruiting efficiencies and the In 2019, the GBC team implemented a new measurement system and new tools turnover patterns of our workforce to monitor and continuously improve our aimed at tracking progress in our strategy deployment, monitoring media hiring and retention practices. Also, we conduct periodic surveys of the global coverage, and measuring brand perception and any positive or negative workforce, to ensure management maintains a current view of employee sentiment for Wolters Kluwer and key competitors globally. The Global engagement and insights for how to continuously improve it. Incident Management program enhances the coordination and communications among all our divisional and functional teams to manage Fraud crises and incidents which could affect the company’s reputation. Certain In the conduct of its business, the The Corporate Risk Committee examines potential exposure to fraudulent relevant teams have been trained on crisis preparedness. company may be exposed to internal activities and is continuously implementing measures to address this. The or external fraudulent or related company has continued the improvement of processes and procedures to criminal actions relating to cyber mitigate this risk and build employee awareness across the organization. In addition to technical activities undertaken by information security and data Legal & compliance risks frauds/malicious acts where a bad actor attempts to take something of privacy functions, the company issued fraud alerts and conducted anti-fraud/ value (tangible or intangible assets) anti-cybercrime workshops and training sessions within at-risk businesses Regulatory compliance from the company. and functions, using case studies and best practices to further raise global The company can be exposed to Compliance is an integral part of Wolters Kluwer’s Internal Control Framework fraud awareness and reduce social engineering risks. non-compliance with laws, which includes semi-annual Letters of Representation, annual internal control regulations, or internal policies. testing, and regular internal audits. Pertinent training programs are provided Measures to mitigate risks relating to internal fraud include reviews that Non-compliance could result in ﬁnes, to all employees to create awareness about compliance subjects, mitigate ensure adherence to the Wolters Kluwer Internal Control Framework: including restrictions on business, third-party compliance related risks and reinforce tone at the top. The training programs strict policies on segregation of duties, risk-based internal audits, (fraud) risk claims, and reputational damage. provide employees with knowledge to recognize potential violations or assessment activities, staff training, and information sharing. The 2019 Annual non-compliance with laws, regulations, or internal policies, so that nonCompliance Training included a specific module on fraud awareness. compliance can be avoided. Our global reporting system SpeakUp allows employees to report any suspected non-compliance for investigation and Property damage and related remediation. The Ethics & Compliance Committee oversees the company’s non-technological business To mitigate against property damage and related non-technological business compliance program and related initiatives, including the company’s Business interruption interruption risks, the company has implemented a centralized worldwide risk Principles and related policies. In 2019, we implemented a new Trade The company could be exposed to control and business continuity management program. Regular loss control Compliance Policy and updated our Business Principles to a Code of Business damages to its tangible assets (i.e. visits at key operating companies and supplier locations are conducted by Ethics for release in 2020. We maintain a cross-functional enterprise-wide facilities, IT and communications company risk managers accompanied by insurers. They work with our compliance program for monitoring and complying with applicable privacy hardware, physical property) which operating companies to cost-effectively implement recommendations for laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the could cause business interruption. continued improvement. The company established a multi-disciplinary Global California Data Privacy Act (CCPA). We continuously evaluate whether Incident Management Program to strengthen the ability to manage crises and legislative changes, new products, or business acquisitions require additional incidents, irrespective of the type. Incident management is a standing agenda compliance efforts. topic of the Corporate Risk Committee and incidents are reported quarterly to the Audit Committee. Mitigation of technological risks to intangible property are described under the risk category IT and cybersecurity. 56 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 57 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk description and impact Mitigation Risk description and impact Mitigation Corruption and bribery Legislative developments As Wolters Kluwer’s businesses Wolters Kluwer’s policies prohibit employees, either directly or indirectly, Changes in laws, legislation, or trade The company monitors legislative developments and regulatory changes, operate worldwide, these are exposed from offering, promising, demanding, or accepting bribes to obtain or retain restrictions could impact the company’s including trade restrictions, to assess the potential impact on its businesses. to diverse business cultures and business. The company has policies setting restrictions on accepting and businesses in certain jurisdictions. In certain cases, the company partners with local companies to facilitate practices. In addition, our customers offering gifts and hospitality. Our annual training makes all employees Countries could impose restrictions on compliance with applicable laws. include governmental and quasiglobally aware of these rules. In 2019, we launched a new training course with ownership of publishing activities by governmental organizations. These are specific modules on anti-corruption and anti-bribery. Further, we conduct due foreign companies. factors that could potentially diligence screening of centrally managed suppliers, that includes anti-bribery contribute to the risk of corruption safeguards and the requirement to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct or and bribery. adhere to an equivalent standard. Finally, our global misconduct reporting Financial risks system SpeakUp encourages employees to report any suspected act of corruption or bribery. Treasury Fluctuations in exchange and interest It is the company’s goal to mitigate the effects of currency and interest rate Contractual compliance rates can adversely affect Wolters fluctuations on net proﬁt, equity, and cash ﬂow. Whenever possible, the The company could be exposed to The company mitigates contractual compliance risks by negotiating contracts Kluwer’s results. company tries to do this by creating natural hedges, by matching the currency claims by its contractual with attention to risk transfer clauses, representations, and warranties and proﬁle of income and expenses and of assets and liabilities. counterparties based on alleged covenants. For part of our vendor contracts, we use contract management When natural hedges are not present, Wolters Kluwer strives to realize the non-compliance with contractual systems to monitor material contractual rights and obligations, and software same effect with the aid of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. For this purpose, obligations, covenants, restrictions, tools to track the use of software for which licenses are required. We hedging ranges have been identiﬁed and policies and governance are in place, and representations, such as the limits implemented contract playbooks for the company’s internal legal department including authorization procedures and limits. The company only purchases or on number of users (available to assist in standardizing negotiation positions with respect to customer holds derivative ﬁnancial instruments with the aim of mitigating risks, and not licenses), price commitments, or contracts. Further, our limitation of liability policy standardizes negotiation of for speculative purposes. Most of these instruments qualify for hedge services to be delivered. liability provisions in SaaS and software agreements with customers and accounting as deﬁned in IFRS 9. More disclosure and detailed information on establishes an exceptions process to ensure proper balancing of risks and ﬁnancial risks and policies is provided in Note 30 – Financial Risk Management. benefits. The Treasury Policy on market risks (currency and interest), liquidity risks, and credit risks is reviewed by the Audit Committee, with quarterly reporting by Intellectual property protection the Treasury Committee to the Audit Committee on the status of these Intellectual property rights could be Wolters Kluwer actively protects its intellectual property rights to safeguard ﬁnancial risks. challenged, limited, invalidated, its portfolio of information, software solutions, and services. The company circumvented, or infringed. relies on trademark, copyright, patent, and other intellectual property laws to Post-employment benefits Technological developments make it establish and protect its proprietary rights to these products and services. The company maintains a number of The company performs an ongoing evaluation of all plans to ensure we are increasingly difﬁcult to protect We monitor legislative developments with respect to intellectual property post-employment beneﬁt programs market competitive with designs that minimize risk and volatility. Steps we intellectual property rights. Changes rights. Our central trademarks database provides expert protection and globally. Generally, these programs have taken to mitigate our risk include moving our closed retiree medical plan in legislation could have an impact on supports the monitoring of our intellectual property. We updated intellectual are deﬁned contribution plans, yet in in the United States to a private exchange, thereby eliminating the liability and the ability to protect intellectual property policies and procedures to ensure the proper protection of the some countries we maintain defined the ﬁnancial risk of the program, lowering the risk of the frozen or closed property rights. company’s intellectual property rights. benefit plans, the largest of which is deﬁned beneﬁt plans starting with the United States where we have lowered an active plan in the Netherlands, and the company’s liability by reducing the number of participants in the plan Third-party claims next in size are the frozen and/or through a cost-effective lump sum distribution initiative, and annuitizing a The company may be exposed to The company mitigates these risks by striving to produce high-quality closed plans in the United States, the portion of the plan, thereby removing a third of the plan’s overall liability. litigation, administrative actions, and products, services, and content, and by generally including disclaimers and United Kingdom, Canada, Belgium, and We are also closely managing our investment strategy to see stronger asset other claims by third parties, including limitations of liability in its contracts. The Business Principles require Australia. For most of the active plans, returns with hedging parameters to manage downside risk. Further, we partner claims relating to products, services employees to comply with intellectual property laws and regulations. Further, the company as well as employees with independent expert advisors on market competitive plan design, plan (including software and SaaS the company’s limitation of liability policy standardizes negotiation of liability make investments for the future performance monitoring, and deﬁning investment and hedging strategies for offerings), informational content provisions in software customer agreements. beneﬁt of participants. For the frozen all of our plans. The accounting for defined beneﬁt plans is based on annual provided or published by the company, and/or closed plans, the company has actuarial calculations in line with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. and employee and vendor relations. The company’s insurance program cover certain types of claim exposures. The to ensure they are properly funded to Such claims may be based on legal company manages a range of insurable risks by arranging for insurance provide the committed level of theories such as alleged negligence, coverage for ﬁrst-party and third-party liability exposures. beneﬁts to participants. From a risk product liability, breach of contract, or point of view, for the defined benefits infringement of third-party plans, funding requirements are intellectual property rights. inﬂuenced by interest rates and the investment returns on the assets invested in each respective plan, which are inﬂuenced by ﬁnancial markets and economic conditions. 58 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 59 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk description and impact Mitigation Statements by the Executive Board Taxes The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of As required by provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Changes in operational taxes and Next to income taxes, most taxes are either transactional or employee-related the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Governance Code and Section 5:25c(2)(c) of the Dutch income tax rates, laws and regulations and are levied from the legal entities in the relevant jurisdictions. Wolters Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het ﬁnancieel could adversely affect the company’s Kluwer maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions in line with IFRS European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch toezicht) and on the basis of the foregoing and the ﬁnancial results, and tax assets and accounting standards. The adequacy of this liability is evaluated on a regular Civil Code. The ﬁnancial statements consist of the explanations contained in Risk Management, liabilities. basis in consultation with external advisors. Reference is made to Note 23 – Tax Assets and Liabilities for additional information about income tax and consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the company’s the Executive Board conﬁrms that to its knowledge: related risks. As a leader in tax and accounting products, the company takes ﬁnancial statements. The responsibility of the Executive • There have been no material failings in the effectiveness its responsibility as a corporate citizen seriously. The company reviews its Tax Board includes selecting and applying appropriate of the company’s internal risk management and control Principles annually and updates them where necessary. The next update is accounting policies and making accounting estimates that systems; scheduled for 2020. The principles are published on www.wolterskluwer.com. are reasonable in the circumstances. • The company’s internal risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial The Executive Board is also responsible for the reporting over 2019 does not contain any errors of Financial reporting risks preparation of the Report of the Executive Board (which material importance; for this statement includes Corporate Governance and • There is a reasonable expectation that the company will Risk Management) that is included in the 2019 Annual be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Misstatements, accounting estimates and judgments, and reliability of The company mitigates these risks by maintaining an Internal Control Report. The Report of the Executive Board and the for at least 12 months, therefore it is appropriate to systems Framework for financial reporting as described in the introduction to this Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial The processes and systems supporting chapter. In addition, senior executives in the divisional and operating Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Executive reporting; the financial reporting may be companies and senior corporate staff members sign Letters of Board endeavors to present a fair review of the situation • There are no material risks or uncertainties that could susceptible to unintentional Representation semi-annually, certifying compliance with laws and of the business at balance sheet date and of the course of reasonably be expected to have a material adverse misstatements or manipulation. policies. Independent internal audits are carried out to ensure compliance affairs in the year under review. Such an overview effect on the continuity of the company’s enterprise in The preparation of financial statements with policies and procedures and ensure that existing controls provide contains a selection of some of the main developments in the coming 12 months; in conformity with IFRS requires adequate protection against actual risks. Further, financial results are the ﬁnancial year and can never be exhaustive. • The 2019 Financial Statements give a true and fair view management to make judgments, inquired and reviewed by the Business, Analysis & Control, Group estimates, and assumptions. Actual Accounting & Reporting, Treasury, and Corporate Tax departments and the of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position, and proﬁt or results may differ from those estimates Executive Board as part of regular business reviews. The company has identiﬁed the main risks it faces, loss of the company and the undertakings included in and assumptions. including ﬁnancial reporting risks. These risks can be the consolidation taken as a whole; and found in Risk Management. In line with the Dutch • The Report of the Executive Board includes a fair review Corporate Governance Code and the Dutch Act on of the situation at the balance sheet date, the course of Sensitivity analysis ﬁnancial supervision (Wet op het ﬁnancieel toezicht), the affairs during the ﬁnancial year of the company, and the Fluctuations in exchange, discount, interest, and tax rates company has not provided an exhaustive list of all undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a affect Wolters Kluwer’s results. The following table possible risks. Furthermore, developments that are whole, together with a description of the principal risks illustrates the sensitivity to a change in these rates for currently unknown to the Executive Board or considered that the company faces. adjusted operating profit and diluted adjusted EPS: to be unlikely may change the future risk proﬁle of the company. Alphen aan den Rijn, February 25, 2020 potential impact Adjusted Diluted The company must have internal risk management and Executive Board operating profit adjusted EPS control systems that are suitable for the company. The Nancy McKinstry € millions € cents design of the company’s internal risk management and CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board 1% decline of the U.S. dollar against the euro (9) (2) control systems (including the Internal Control Kevin Entricken 1% decrease in discount rate in determining the gross service costs for the Framework for financial reporting) has been described in CFO and member of the Executive Board post-employment benefit plans (7) (2) Risk Management. The objective of these systems is to 1% increase in interest rate assuming same mix of variable and fixed gross debt n/a (1) manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 1% increase in the benchmark tax rate on adjusted net profit n/a (4) achieve business objectives and the risk of material errors to the ﬁnancial reporting. Accordingly, these systems can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material losses or material errors. 60 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 61 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Executive Board Nancy McKinstry Kevin Entricken American, 1959, Chief Executive Officer and American, 1965, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Executive Board since member of the Executive Board since May 2013. September 2003, and member of the Executive Board since June 2001. As CFO and member of the Executive Board, Mr. Entricken is responsible for Accounting & As CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, Reporting, Business Analysis & Control, Internal Ms. McKinstry is responsible for division Audit, Internal Controls, Investor Relations, performance, Global Strategy, Business Mergers & Acquisitions, Taxation, Treasury, Risk Development, Technology, Global Business Management, Real Estate, and Legal Affairs. Services, Communications, Human Resources, Corporate Governance, and Sustainability. Supervisory Board Frans Cremers René Hooft Graafland Bertrand Bodson Jeanette Horan Fidelma Russo Chris Vogelzang Ann Ziegler Dutch, 1952, Chairman of the Dutch, 1955, Vice-Chairman of Belgian, 1975. Appointed in British, 1955, Chairman of the Irish and American, 1963, Dutch, 1962, member of the American, 1958, member of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board and 2019, current term until 2023. Selection and Remuneration member of the Audit Audit Committee. Appointed in Selection and Remuneration Chairman of the Selection and Chairman of the Audit Committee dealing with Committee. Appointed in 2016, 2019, and current term until Committee. Appointed in 2017, Remuneration Committee Committee. Appointed in 2012, Position: remuneration matters. and stepped down as member 2023. and current term until 2021. dealing with selection and and current term until 2020. Chief Digital Officer and Appointed in 2016, and current of the Supervisory Board as appointment matters. Member of the Executive term until 2020. per year-end 2019. Position: Position: Appointed in 2017, and current Position: Committee at Novartis CEO of Danske Bank Former Senior Vice President, term until 2021. Former CFO and member of the Position: Position: Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, and Executive Board of Heineken N.V. Supervisory directorships and Former Chief Information EVP and Chief Technology Supervisory directorships and Executive Committee member Position: other positions: Ofﬁcer at IBM Ofﬁcer at Iron Mountain Inc. other positions: of CDW Corporation Former CFO and member of the Supervisory directorships and • Member of the Board • Member of the Supervisory Executive Board of VNU N.V. other positions: (Non-Executive Director) of Supervisory directorships and Council of Rijksmuseum Supervisory directorships and • Member of the Supervisory Electrocomponents PLC other positions: other positions: Supervisory directorships and Board of Royal Ahold Delhaize Member of the Board • Member of the Board other positions: N.V.; (Non-Executive Director) of (Non-Executive Director) of • Member of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Nokia Groupon Inc.; Directors of Stichting Board of Royal Friesland • Member of the Board Preferente Aandelen Philips, Campina N.V.; (Non-Executive Director) of Stichting Preferente • Member of the Supervisory Hanesbrands Inc.; and Aandelen Heijmans, and Board of Lucas Bols N.V.; • Member of the Board Stichting Preferente • Chairman of the Board of (Non-Executive Director) of Aandelen B KPN; and Stichting African Parks US Foods. • Investigator appointed by the Foundation; Enterprise Section of the • Chairman of the Carré Amsterdam Court of Appeal in Foundation; relation to the policy and • Chairman of the Board of course of events in the Stichting Nationaal Fonds matter of SNS Reaal N.V. and 4 en 5 mei; and SNS Bank N.V. • Member of the Dutch Monitoring Committee Corporate Governance. Profiles of the members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are available on www.wolterskluwer.com. 62 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 63 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Report of the Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board met with customers of the Enablon business to learn more of their businesses and Corporate governance, sustainability, and risk management the way they use the software of Enablon. In addition, the The Supervisory Board was kept informed about Supervisory Board attended a meeting with customers developments with respect to corporate governance and Supervisory Board Report and employees on the innovation process at Enablon. The sustainability. The Supervisory Board and Audit Supervisory Board appreciated the opportunity to Committee discussed risk management, including the risk receive a performance update and develop a deeper proﬁle of the company and risk appetite per risk The Supervisory Board of Wolters Kluwer is responsible for supervising the Executive Board in understanding of the Enablon business and the needs of category, as well as the assessment of internal risk setting and achieving the company’s strategy, targets, and policies, as well as the general course of its customers. management and control systems. The Audit Committee affairs of the company. The Supervisory Board also assists the Executive Board with advice. and Supervisory Board discussed the ongoing actions the The Supervisory Board was also informed about the company takes to further improve the internal risk innovation activities within Wolters Kluwer. 2019 was the management and control systems, including IT security Meetings Board meetings take place in an open and transparent ninth consecutive year in which Wolters Kluwer rewarded and cybersecurity. In relation to the European General The Supervisory Board held seven scheduled meetings in atmosphere with each of the members actively promising new internal business initiatives via the Global Data Protection Regulation which became effective in 2019. Six meetings were partly held without the members participating. The Committees function well. Further Innovation Awards. Continuing focus on innovation and May 2018, as well as data privacy laws in other of the Executive Board being present. All of the current optimization could be achieved by continuing to ensure a investment in new and enhanced products are an jurisdictions, the Supervisory Board invited the members attended all meetings. Mr. Angelici was excused good balance between presentations and open discussion. important means of driving long-term value creation as corporate privacy officer to present an update with for one meeting, and Ms. Russo was excused for two During 2019, the Supervisory Board worked towards well as an increased culture of innovation at Wolters respect to data privacy and data protection. For more meetings. In addition to the scheduled meetings, there was implementation of this recommendation. In addition to the Kluwer. information, see Risk Management. one scheduled conference call between the Executive formal evaluation process, as a standard practice, the Board, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board gives feedback to the In line with standard practice, management of the Global The Supervisory Board took note of the continuous Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Chairman of the Executive Board after every Supervisory Business Services organization and the Digital progress of the sustainability initiatives in 2019, and the Supervisory Board had regular contact with the Chairman Board meeting. eXperience Group (formerly Global Platform inclusion of additional non-ﬁnancial information in the of the Executive Board. Organization) gave presentations, updating the Annual Report. These efforts aim to contribute to Strategy Supervisory Board on the company’s technology strategy transparency and long-term value creation for all Financial statements The Supervisory Board was closely involved in the and execution thereof. The Supervisory Board was kept stakeholders. The Executive Board submitted the 2019 Financial development of the strategy for 2019-2021, Accelerating closely informed about the network and service Statements to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Our Value, which was announced in February 2019. This interruptions in May 2019, and provided advice to the Talent management and organizational developments Board also took notice of the report and the statement by strategy aims at accelerating the transformation of the Executive Board. These discussions included the facts of Each year, the outcome of the annual talent reviews is Deloitte Accountants B.V. (as referred to in Article 27, company towards a global organization which grows expert the incident, recovery plans, the assessment of external discussed by the Supervisory Board. Diversity at board paragraph 3 of the company’s Articles of Association), solutions, advances deep domain expertise, and drives experts, and future plans. and senior management levels are elements which are which the Supervisory Board discussed with Deloitte. The operational agility. This will contribute to long-term value taken into consideration as part of that discussion. members of the Supervisory Board signed the 2019 creation for the company. During 2019, the Supervisory The Supervisory Board also considers it important to be Furthermore, as a standing topic during each Supervisory Financial Statements, pursuant to their statutory Board was kept informed of the start of the execution of aware of the main developments with respect to Board meeting, the Supervisory Board is informed about obligation under clause 2:101 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code. the strategy. The Executive Board also discussed the competition and the markets in which the company organizational developments, including appointments at The Supervisory Board proposes to the shareholders that corporate Vision & Strategy Plan for 2020-2022 with the operates. Towards that end, an overview of the most senior positions within the company. During the year, the they adopt these Financial Statements at the Annual Supervisory Board. important developments with respect to traditional and Supervisory Board also met with various executives and General Meeting of Shareholders of April 23, 2020, see 2019 new competitors is discussed during each Supervisory managers who gave presentations, which enabled the Financial Statements. The divisional CEOs also presented their Vision & Strategy Board meeting. Furthermore, one presentation prepared Board to get a good view on the available talent within Plans for 2020-2022 to the Supervisory Board. This enabled by the Corporate Strategy team was dedicated to the the organization. Evaluations the Supervisory Board to obtain a good view on the competitive position of Wolters Kluwer. The Supervisory Board discussed its own functioning, as opportunities and challenges for each of the divisions and The Supervisory Board was also updated on the results well as the functioning of the Executive Board and the support the Executive Board in making the right strategic Acquisitions and divestments of Wolters Kluwer’s employee engagement survey, which performance of the individual members of both Boards. choices and investment decisions for each business. The The Executive Board kept the Supervisory Board measures important topics such as engagement, These discussions were partly held without the members Supervisory Board considers it important to meet each of informed about all pending acquisition and divestment alignment, agility, development, and other components of the Executive Board being present. The composition of the division CEOs periodically and get an update from them activities. The Supervisory Board also discussed the driving engagement, and supporting a culture aimed at the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee, and the on the performance, key trends, strategy, and performance and value creation of previous acquisitions, long-term value creation. Selection and Remuneration Committee was also developments. taking into consideration Wolters Kluwer’s ﬁnancial and discussed in the absence of the Executive Board. The strategic criteria for acquisitions. Supervisory Board members filled out a self-assessment. In 2019, the Supervisory Board visited the Enablon Overall, the outcome of the evaluation was positive. The business in Paris. During that visit, presentations were composition of the Supervisory Board represents the given by the CEO of Legal & Regulatory, as well as the CEO relevant skill sets and areas of expertise. The Supervisory and other managers of Enablon and eVision. Furthermore, 64 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 65 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Finance progress on the implementation of new IFRS standards proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders All Supervisory Board members comply with the Dutch law The Supervisory Board carefully observes the ﬁnancing of (speciﬁcally IFRS 16), pensions, tax planning, impairment on April 23, 2020, to increase the Supervisory Board regarding the maximum number of supervisory board the company including the balance sheet and available testing, the Treasury Policy, the ﬁnancing of the company, remuneration. For more information, see Remuneration memberships. Furthermore, all members of the headroom. The Supervisory Board also closely monitors risk management, cybersecurity, hedging, claims, incident Report. Supervisory Board are independent from the company the development of the net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio. The management, the quarterly reports of the external auditor, within the meaning of best practice provisions 2.1.7, 2.1.8, Supervisory Board approved the share buyback program in and their full-year report on the audit. The Selection and Remuneration Committee discussed the and 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. For 2019 of up to €350 million, as well as the €50 million composition of the Supervisory Board, which resulted in more information on each Supervisory Board member in buyback for the first two months of 2020. Other ﬁnancial The Audit Committee has reviewed the performance of the the nominations set out below. accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, subjects discussed included the budget, the ﬁnancial external auditor, the proposed audit scope and approach, see Executive Board and Supervisory Board and Corporate outlook, the achievement of ﬁnancial targets, the year-end the audit fees, and the independence of the external Supervisory Board composition Governance. and interim dividend, the outcome of the annual auditor, and has approved the non-audit services provided In 2019, the third and final term of Mr. Angelici expired. impairment test, and annual and interim ﬁnancial results. by the external auditor. In addition, the Audit Committee Furthermore, the first term of Mr. Noteboom expired. He The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Executive approved the updated Auditor Independence Policy, which was not available for reappointment. They retired after the Board and all employees worldwide for their highly Investor Relations is published on www.wolterskluwer.com. Annual General Meeting of Shareholders which was held on appreciated efforts in the past year. The Supervisory Board was well informed about Investor April 18, 2019. At the same meeting, Mr. Chris Vogelzang and Relations activities, which is a standing agenda item during Selection and Remuneration Committee Mr. Bertrand Bodson (per September 1, 2019) were Alphen aan den Rijn, February 25, 2020 the Supervisory Board meetings. Updates included share The Selection and Remuneration Committee met seven appointed as new members. price developments, communication with shareholders, times in 2019 and had two additional conference calls. The Supervisory Board shareholders’ views on acquisitions, analyst research, and Committee has the following composition: Ms. Horan (who Ms. Russo resigned by the end of 2019, due to other Frans Cremers, Chairman the composition of the shareholder base. The Supervisory chairs the remuneration-related discussions), Mr. Cremers commitments. In 2020, the second term of Mr. Hooft René Hooft Graaﬂand, Vice-Chairman Board also carefully reviewed and approved the Annual (who chairs the selection and nomination-related Graafland will expire. He is not available for re-election. Bertrand Bodson Report and press releases regarding the full-year and discussions), and Ms. Ziegler. All members attended all Jeanette Horan half-year results, and the first-quarter update and meetings and calls. After every meeting, the respective The Supervisory Board is pleased to nominate Mr. Jack de Chris Vogelzang nine-month trading update. chairs of the Committee report back to the full Supervisory Kreij and Ms. Sophie Vandebroek for appointment as new Ann Ziegler Board. The resolutions regarding appointments and Supervisory Board members. Mr. De Kreij gathered Audit Committee remuneration were taken by the full Supervisory Board, in-depth digital and financial and managerial experience in The Audit Committee met four times in 2019, during the based on recommendations from the Committee. executive and supervisory board roles at various listed preparation of the full-year and half-year results, and companies. He serves on various audit committees. After around the first-quarter trading update and nine-month The Committee has extensively discussed the new his appointment as Supervisory Board member, he will trading update. In addition, there was one scheduled remuneration policy for the Executive Board, which will be become chairman of the Audit Committee. Ms. Vandebroek conference call in December. After the Annual General submitted to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders gathered in-depth technology and managerial experience Meeting of Shareholders in 2019, the Audit Committee on April 23, 2020, including the base salary, new in executive and supervisory board roles at various consisted of Mr. Hooft Graaﬂand (Chairman), Ms. Russo, conditional awards of performance shares under the companies. The nomination of Mr. De Kreij and Ms. and Mr. Vogelzang. Mr. Angelici and Mr. Noteboom retired Long-Term Incentive Plan and the applicable performance Vandebroek will be on the agenda of the Annual General after the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Ms. Russo retired measures, and targets for the Short-Term Incentive Plan. Meeting of Shareholders which will be held on April 23, year-end 2019. Mr. Hooft Graaﬂand attended all meetings. The Committee members were actively involved in the 2020. Ms. Russo was excused for one meeting and stakeholder outreach to gather the views of stakeholders Mr. Vogelzang was excused for one meeting due to an on the draft remuneration policy. For more information The composition of the Supervisory Board (both in the obligation existing before his appointment. The meetings about the remuneration policy of the Executive Board and current composition and in the new composition after the of the Audit Committee were held in the presence of the the execution thereof, see Remuneration Report. 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders) is in line Executive Board members, the external auditor, the with the proﬁle and the company’s diversity policy, internal auditor, and other corporate staff members. The Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation of the reﬂecting a diverse composition with respect to expertise, During 2019, as routine agenda items, the Audit Committee Selection and Remuneration Committee, also reviewed its nationality, gender, and age. Four nationalities are had discussions with the external auditors, as well as with own remuneration and established a remuneration policy represented on the Supervisory Board, with different the head of internal audit, without the members of the for the Supervisory Board, in line with the new Dutch law talents and relevant areas of expertise. On December 31, Executive Board being present. In addition, the Chairman which implements the amended European Shareholder 2019, the Supervisory Board had a female representation of the Committee met with the external auditor and the Rights Directive. This policy will also be submitted to the of 43%. Currently (after the resignation of Ms. Russo) two head of internal audit in preparation of the Committee Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of April 23, 2020. out of the six Supervisory Board members are female, meetings. After every meeting, the Chairman of the Taking into consideration the responsibilities of which means a female representation of 33%, which is in Committee reports back to the full Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board members, remuneration levels at other line with Dutch governance standards. After the main items discussed during the Audit Committee two-tier board Dutch listed (AEX index) companies, and appointment of Ms. Vandebroek at the Annual General meetings include the ﬁnancial results of the company, selected European companies, as well as the international Meeting of Shareholders of April 23, 2020, the percentage status updates on internal audit and internal controls, the composition of the Supervisory Board, it will also be will be 43% again. The profile, competences matrix, and diversity policy are published on www.wolterskluwer.com. 66 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 67 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Remuneration Report Main changes in remuneration policy for the Executive In addition to the changes in the updated remuneration Board policy as set out above, the Supervisory Board also The most important changes in the updated remuneration updated the TSR peer group, starting with the Long-Term This Remuneration Report provides an overview of the remuneration policy and its application in policy for members of the Executive Board are: Incentive Plan cycle 2020-2022, to reflect the 2019. This Report is approved by the Supervisory Board. • Making the policy compliant with the Dutch law which transformation of the company and its transition from implements the amended SRD; publishing to information solutions, software, and • Proposing a predefined list of measures (including services. The updated TSR peer group is included in this Letter from the Chairman of the Selection and Remuneration Committee, dealing with financial, non-financial, key operational, or strategic Remuneration Report. We have replaced seven traditional remuneration matters measures) from which the Supervisory Board can publishers with seven new peers from the GICS (Global annually select appropriate measures for the Short-Term Industry Classification Standard) sectors Research & Incentive Plan, instead of the current full flexibility for Consulting, Application Software, and Financial Exchanges On behalf of the Selection and Remuneration Committee of Remuneration policy the Supervisory Board, in order to balance flexibility for & Data. the Supervisory Board, I am pleased to present the The existing remuneration policy for members of the the Supervisory Board with transparency for the Remuneration Report for 2019. This report covers the 2019 Executive Board was adopted at the Annual General stakeholders about potential targets; The Selection and Remuneration Committee also reviewed remuneration earned and the outcomes of the Meeting (AGM) of Shareholders of April 21, 2004, and • Replacing diluted earnings per share (EPS) by diluted Supervisory Board remuneration and established a formal performance against target of the variable compensation amendments to the policy and the Long-Term Incentive adjusted earnings per share as a Long-Term Incentive remuneration policy in line with the new Dutch law which elements. Plan were approved by shareholders at the Annual General Plan measure to bring the policy in line with current implements the amended SRD. This policy was also Meetings in 2007 and 2011. In light of the significant market practice. The other Long-Term Incentive Plan reviewed and discussed with shareholders, proxy advisors, As discussed in more detail elsewhere in the 2019 Annual transformation of the company and in accordance with the measure, Total Shareholder Return (TSR), remains in and investor associations during the consultation rounds. Report, at the start of last year, we set out our strategic implementation of the amended European Shareholder place. Diluted adjusted EPS has long been used by the priorities for the three-year period 2019-2021. This strategy Rights Directive (SRD) in the Netherlands, the Selection company as a key performance indicator to measure the The Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation of the builds on earlier plans which have driven a significant and Remuneration Committee took the opportunity to performance of the business and is an important Selection and Remuneration Committee, will submit these transformation of the company and have created review and update the remuneration policy. In November measure used in our financial guidance; updated remuneration policies for members of the substantial value for shareholders. The 2019-2021 strategy, 2019, members of the Selection and Remuneration • Introducing a two-year holding period requirement post Executive Board and the Supervisory Board for adoption at Accelerating Our Value, aims to deliver continued good Committee held consultative meetings with our largest the three-year vesting period of long-term incentive the AGM on April 23, 2020. Subject to adoption by the AGM, organic growth and further incremental improvements to shareholders in Europe and the United States, whose firms’ shares; both remuneration policies will take (retroactive) effect our adjusted operating profit margin and return on aggregated holdings represented approximately 35% of • Introducing formal share ownership guidelines (minimum from January 1, 2020, and are intended to remain in place invested capital, and seeks to drive long-term, sustainable Wolters Kluwer shares outstanding as of the end of number of shares Executive Board members should own: for four years. In addition, this Remuneration Report will be value for all stakeholders. November 2019, to hear their views on remuneration. three times of base salary for CEO, two times of base submitted for an advisory vote at the AGM on April 23, Members of the Selection and Remuneration Committee salary for other Executive Board members); and 2020. For more information please refer to the agenda for Our philosophy around remuneration is to align the also met with proxy advisors and investor associations. • Enabling the Supervisory Board to compensate new the AGM, available on www.wolterskluwer.com/agm. A copy incentives for management with the interest of Opinions and policies on this topic are diverse and members of the Executive Board, when recruited of both remuneration policies is also included as annex to shareholders, providing a strong link between pay and evolving, but we received constructive feedback which has externally, for the loss of compensation they might face the AGM agenda. performance. The outcome of the 2019 remuneration helped us develop a remuneration policy for members of when transitioning their employment, in order to be able reflects the achievement of another year of solid 4% the Executive Board which we believe reflects the evolving to attract the best external talent. Jeanette Horan organic growth and significant improvement in the nature of the business, strengthens long-term Chairman of the Selection and Remuneration Committee, adjusted operating profit margin. It was a year when commitment, and retains a strong link to performance and In developing the policy, a constructive dialogue took place dealing with remuneration matters important progress was made behind the scenes in value creation. with the works council of the company. Based on this improving back-office systems and IT infrastructure and dialogue and the information provided, the works council strengthening overall security. It was also a year where did not see the need to render a formal advice. Additionally, innovation was sustained at high levels with several the Supervisory Board took notice of the views of the exciting new offerings brought to market, as detailed in the Executive Board members on the structure and quantum of Report of the Executive Board. their remuneration as required by the Dutch Corporate Governance code. The performance measures in the Executive Board incentive plans align with and support the strategy by focusing on key performance indicators, including revenue growth, adjusted net profit, earnings per share (EPS), and shareholder returns, among other. 68 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 69 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Executive Board remuneration According to Dutch law, the Supervisory Board has the Total remuneration overview authority to adjust variable remuneration if the payout The remuneration policy for the Executive Board provides based on achievement of targets would in its view be The table below provides an overview of the total determining the structure and level of Executive Board a structure that aligns compensation of the Executive unacceptable based on reasonability and fairness criteria. remuneration of the members of the Executive Board. In remuneration. The table below includes the relative Board members with the successful delivery of our In addition, variable remuneration could be reclaimed accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, proportion between fixed and variable remuneration. long-term strategy. The key objectives of the remuneration after payout took place, to the extent the payout was the Supervisory Board carried out scenario analyses when policy are to: based on incorrect information with respect to achieving • Align rewards with individual and company performance; the targets. This was not the case in 2019, and this Remuneration of the Executive Board – IFRS based • Strengthen long-term commitment to the company; authority was not used. • Align with strategy, mission, and values of the company in thousands Fixed Variable Proportion and create long-term value for our stakeholders; and Pay peer group of euros compensation compensation fixed/ variable • Attract, motivate, and retain the best executive For remuneration benchmarking purposes, the Supervisory Board considers market data for all elements of 2019 Salary Social Pension Other STIP LTIP3 Subtotal Tax Total management talent. security contribenefits2 related remuneration from companies of comparable size, bution cost The Executive Board remuneration is comprised of the complexity, industry or business profile, and international N. McKinstry 1 1,349 22 62 199 1,664 4,636 7,932 21%/ 157 8,089 following elements: scope. The benchmark companies in the pay peer group are 79% • A base salary; comparable organizations in Europe and the United States , K.B. Entricken 698 22 34 260 703 1,464 3,181 32%/ 1,408 4,589 • A short-term incentive paid annually in cash; which takes into consideration the companies and 68% • A long-term incentive in the form of conditional rights on geographic locations where Executive Board members ordinary shares which is subject to a three-year vesting might be recruited to or from. Every two years, the Total 2,047 44 96 459 2,367 6,100 11,113 1,565 12,678 schedule; and benchmark study is conducted, and the pay peer group • Retirements and other benefits. reviewed. The last benchmark and review were done in in thousands Fixed Variable Proportion 2019. of euros compensation compensation fixed/ variable The Selection and Remuneration Committee engaged an 2018 Salary Social Pension Other STIP LTIP3 Subtotal Tax Total external compensation advisor to provide The pay peer benchmark group for 2019 consists of the security contribenefits 2 related recommendations and information on market practices for following companies: bution cost 4 compensation structure and levels. The Committee had N. McKinstry 1,283 21 52 185 1,697 4,554 7,792 20%/ (3,068) 4,724 extensive discussions, supported by its external advisor, to Bureau Veritas Nielsen Holdings 80% review the composition and key drivers of remuneration. Equifax NortonLifeLock* K.B. Entricken 645 88 28 349 737 1,451 3,298 34%/ 670 3,968 The Committee has also taken into consideration to which Experian Pearson 66% extent the variable remuneration might expose the IHS Markit RELX Total 1,928 109 80 534 2,434 6,005 11,090 (2,398) 8,692 company to risks, taking into consideration the overall risk proﬁle and risk appetite of the company, as described in Informa S&P Global 1 In 2019, Ms. McKinstry’s salary was $1,425,000 (€1,349,229). The 2019 STIP payment is calculated on a U.S. dollar denominated equivalent of total salary as: $1,425,000 x 130.67% ($1,862,012 equivalent to €1,663,996). Risk Management. The Committee believes that the Intertek Group SGS 2 Executive Board members are eligible for beneﬁts such as health insurance, life insurance, a car, and to participate in any all-employee remuneration policy provides management with good Intuit The Sage Group plans that may be offered at any given point. 3 LTIP share-based payments are based on IFRS accounting policies and therefore do not reflect the actual payout or value of performance incentives to create long-term value, without increasing MSCI Thomson Reuters shares released upon vesting. the overall risk proﬁle of the company. 4 In 2018, the tax related cost was negative, mainly due to a refund of payroll taxes of €3,038,776 (relating to the years 2016/2017 for News Corporation Verisk Analytics Ms. McKinstry). *Symantec renamed Norton LifeLock following the sale of Symantec enterprise security business to Broadcom Inc. As shown in the table above, the variable performancelong-term value creation. This is in compliance with the based incentives are the largest component of goals of the remuneration policy. Because of the applicable remuneration, thereby strengthening the alignment performance criteria and the fact that the Long-Term between remuneration and company performance and Incentive Plan is based on the performance over a threereflecting the philosophy that Executive Board year period, the remuneration contributes to the long-term compensation should be linked to the strategy aimed at interests and value creation of the company. 70 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 71 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Execution of remuneration policy in 2019 The STIP performance measures for 2019 and the corresponding achievements, and the resulting annual This section provides an overview of the execution of the which is in line with the overall budgeted 2020 salary incentive payout percentages for the financial year 2019 remuneration policy for the Executive Board members in increase for Wolters Kluwer executives globally and the are indicated in the table below: 2019, including a description of the remuneration remuneration policy. components, base salary, Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP performance measures 2019 (STIP), Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), retirements, and Short-Term Incentive Plan other benefits. It further describes how the performance The Short-Term Incentive Plan provides Executive Board N. McKinstry K.B. Entricken measures were applied in 2019. Remuneration over the members with a cash incentive for the achievement of Weighting % Achievement Payout as % of Payout as % Payout as % Payout as % financial year 2019 has been paid out in accordance with speciﬁc annual targets. These targets are annually [a] based on target base salary of salary of base salary of salary the remuneration policy. There have not been any determined by the Supervisory Board and largely reflect performance (based on (weighted (based on (weighted %1 achievement) average)2 achievement) average)3 deviations from the policy. Further, there have not been the key performance indicators that the company reports, [b] [a]x[b] [c] [a]x[c] any deviations from the governance process with respect which are important measures of the successful Revenue performance 33.3 100 125 41.66 95 31.66 to the execution of the remuneration policy. execution of the company’s strategy. As such, the remuneration is directly linked to the strategy, Adjusted net proﬁt 33.3 101 130 43.33 100 33.33 Base salary performance, and long-term interests of the company. Adjusted free cash ﬂow 28.3 103 140 39.68 110 31.17 The base salary is set at a market competitive level to Payout only takes place after veriﬁcation by the external Revenues from digital attract and retain the caliber of executives required to auditor of the ﬁnancial statements of the company, products as a percentage devise and execute the company’s strategy. Base salary is including the ﬁnancial performance indicators on which of total revenues 5.0 99 120 6.00 90 4.51 reviewed annually by the Supervisory Board. In 2019, the the ﬁnancial STIP targets are based. Total payout as % of Executive Board members received a regular base salary base salary 130.67 100.67 increase of 2.5% in line with the remuneration policy. For The target payout percentages and maximum 2020, the Supervisory Board approved again an increase achievement levels for 2019 (percentages of base salary) Total payout amount in base salary for the Executive Board members of 2.5%, are indicated in the table below: (in thousands of euros) 1,664 703 1 Targets and achievements are in constant currency and exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestments. 2 The 2019 STIP payment is calculated on a U.S. dollar denominated equivalent of total salary as: $1,425,000 x 130.67% ($1,862,012 equivalent to €1,663,996). The achieved STIP amounts will be payable in March 2020. in % Target payout Maximum No payout if Maximum payout if 3 The 2019 STIP payment is calculated on a U.S. dollar denominated equivalent of total salary as: $781,000 x 100.67% ($786,155 equivalent achievable payout achievement levels achievement levels for all to €702,551). The achieved STIP amounts will be payable in March 2020. (% of base salary) (% of base salary) are below measures are at or above CEO 125 175 < 90 ≥110 CFO 95 145 < 90 ≥110 For 2020, the Supervisory Board has approved the same measures are set as follows, each weighted at 50% of the performance measures as for 2019. In the new target value of the conditional performance shares: remuneration policy that will be submitted for approval • Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to a group of TSR For 2020, the Supervisory Board has approved the same at the AGM of April 23, 2020, the STIP performance peer companies (TSR-Related Shares); and target payout percentages for the Executive Board measures will be established from a pre-defined list of • Diluted EPS (EPS-Related Shares). members as for 2019. The STIP target payout percentages financial measures, key operational measures, and and maximum achievement level have remained non-financial measures aligned to the strategic and In the new remuneration policy that will be submitted to unchanged since 2007. operational objectives of the company. The full list of the AGM of April 23, 2020, it is proposed to replace the measures can be found in the new remuneration policy, diluted EPS by diluted adjusted EPS starting with the provided as an annex to the agenda for the AGM on Long-Term Incentive Plan cycle 2020-22. Adjusted EPS www.wolterskluwer.com. figures are regarded as key performance indicators to measure the underlying performance of the business. The Long-Term Incentive Plan use of adjusted EPS would align with the guidance The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides Executive Board provided to the market. members conditional rights on shares (performance shares). This plan aims to align the organization and its Payout of the performance shares at the end of the management with the strategic goals of the company, three-year performance period will only take place after thus rewarding the creation of shareholder value. The veriﬁcation by the external auditor of the achievement of total number of shares that the Executive Board members the TSR and EPS targets. will receive depends on the achievement of predetermined performance conditions at the end of a three-year performance period. The performance 72 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 73 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements TSR The TSR peer group for the 2020-2022 performance period TSR and EPS performance TSR reflects the return received by a shareholder and will consist of the following companies: The TSR and EPS performances against target for the vesting of conditionally awarded shares in 2019 and in captures both the change in the company’s share price periods 2016-2018 and 2017-2019, and the resulting 2020 are indicated in the tables below: and the value of dividend income, assuming dividends are Bureau Veritas* Pearson reinvested in the company. TSR is an appropriate Equifax* RELX measure, as it objectively measures the company’s Period 2016-2018 Experian* S&P Global financial performance and assesses its long-term value LTIP measure Weighting Target Achievement Payout % creation as compared to other companies in our peer IHS Markit* SGS* Informa The Sage Group TSR 50% n/a Third position 125% group. TSR is calculated as the share price development over a three-year period including dividend reinvestment. Intertek Group* Thomson Reuters Diluted EPS * 50% Target Compound Annual CAGR of 20.0% 150% By using a three-year performance period, there is a clear Growth Rate (CAGR) of 11.6% John Wiley & Sons Verisk Analytics* relation between remuneration and long-term value News Corporation creation. The company uses a 60-day average of the share price at the beginning and end of each three-year New to TSR peer group for the 2020-2022 performance period. In * Period 2017-2019 performance period to reduce the influence of potential case of delisting or merger of a peer group company, the Supervisory Board will carefully consider an appropriate LTIP measure Weighting Target Achievement Payout % stock market volatility. replacement company that meets strict pre-determined criteria. These criteria may include: industry, geographic focus, company TSR 50% n/a Third position 125% A TSR peer group is used to establish relative TSR size, company financial health, TSR correlation and volatility, and Diluted EPS* 50% Target Compound Annual CAGR of 14.8% 150% historical TSR performance. performance. Wolters Kluwer’s TSR performance Growth Rate (CAGR) of 10.4% compared to the peer group determines the number of * For calculation purposes, the deﬁnition of diluted EPS as disclosed in the Glossary is used. conditionally awarded TSR-Related Shares at the end of Diluted EPS the three-year performance period, in accordance with Executive Board members can earn 0-150% of the number the table below. These incentive zones are in line with of conditionally awarded EPS-Related Shares, depending Conditionally awarded shares best practice recommendations for the governance of on Wolters Kluwer’s diluted EPS performance over the This section provides information on the conditional and The LTIP targets and payout schedule for senior long-term incentive plans. three-year performance period. The Supervisory Board actual share awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan management are similar to the LTIP targets and payout determines the exact targets for the EPS-Related Shares for Executive Board members and senior management. schedule for the Executive Board. Like in the new TSR performance incentive table for each three-year performance period. The targets will remuneration policy for the Executive Board, the share be based on the EPS performance in constant currencies, The conditional share awards for the Executive Board ownership guidelines will apply to the top senior Position Payout to exclude beneﬁts or disadvantages based on currency members are determined by the comparable market management as well. 1-2 150% effects over which the Executive Board has no control. information from European and U.S. companies. 3-4 125% Using EPS as a performance measure for LTIP leads to a LTIP 2019-21 and LTIP 2018-20 5-6 100% strong alignment between the successful execution of the Senior management remuneration consists of a base The Executive Board members and senior management 7-8 75% strategy to generate long-term shareholder value and salary, STIP, and LTIP. The senior management STIP is have been conditionally awarded the following number of 9-16 0% management compensation. based on the achievement of specific objective targets shares based on a 100% payout, subject to the conditions that are linked to creating value for shareholders, such as of the LTIP grants for 2019-21 and 2018-20: The TSR peer group consists of 15 companies selected by EPS performance incentive table revenue performance, cash flows, and earnings. the Supervisory Board. Achievement Payout For the 2017-2019 performance period, the TSR peer group Less than 50% of target None Conditionally Conditionally Conditionally Conditionally Total conditionally consisted of the following companies: On target 100% awarded awarded awarded awarded awarded shares TSR-based shares EPS-based shares TSR-based shares EPS-based shares Overachievement of target Up to 150% Arnoldo Mondadori Pearson Base numbers of shares at LTIP 2019-21 LTIP 2019-21 LTIP 2018-20 LTIP 2018-20 December 31, Axel Springer Promotora de Informaciones* 100% payout 2019 Daily Mail & General Trust Reach * N. McKinstry 53,389 38,917 62,253 45,864 200,423 Informa RELX K.B. Entricken 16,476 12,010 19,686 14,503 62,675 John Wiley & Sons S&P Global Lagardère The Sage Group* Total 69,865 50,927 81,939 60,367 263,098 McClatchy Thomson Reuters Senior management 220,199 220,198 218,282 218,283 876,962 News Corporation Total 290,064 271,125 300,221 278,650 1,140,060 * In February 2019, Dun & Bradstreet Inc was delisted and replaced by The Sage Group plc. Promotora de Informaciones was formerly named Grupo PRISA and Reach plc was formerly named Trinity * Mirror. 74 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 75 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements LTIP 2017-19 LTIP 2019-21 and 2018-20 grants for Executive Board and senior management The LTIP 2017-2019 vested on December 31, 2019. The table below indicates the number of conditionally awarded LTIP 2019-21 LTIP 2018-20 shares vested: Fair values number of shares Outstanding at Additional conditional Additional conditional Vested/payout Fair value of EPS shares at grant date (in €) 48.18 40.72 December 31, 2019 number of TSR-shares number of EPS-shares February 27, 2020 (25%) (50%) Fair value of TSR shares at grant date (in €) 35.12 30.00 N. McKinstry 135,864 19,586 28,760 184,210 K.B. Entricken 43,427 6,261 9,193 58,881 TSR shares – key assumptions Total 179,291 25,847 37,953 243,091 Share price at grant date (in €) 51.66 43.48 Senior management 480,110 60,031 120,077 660,218 Expected volatility 18% 20% Total 659,401 85,878 158,030 903,309 Expected life three years three years Annual dividend increase 12.5% 5.6% Vesting LTIP 2017-2019 shares will be released on exchange prices traded at the Euronext Amsterdam N.V. Risk-free interest rate (yield on three-year Dutch February 27, 2020. The volume-weighted average price on February 27, 2020, the ﬁrst day following the company’s government bonds) 0.0% 0.0% for the shares released will be based on the average publication of its annual results. Conditional LTIP grants 2020-22 LTIP 2016-18 As explained above, shares are conditionally awarded at The number of shares conditionally awarded at the start The LTIP 2016-18 vested on December 31, 2018. A total Wolters Kluwer N.V. was €57.40. The table below indicates the beginning of a three-year performance period. The of the performance period is computed by dividing the number of 977,590 shares were released on February 21, the number of shares vested and the cash equivalent percentages are determined through a benchmarking amount, as calculated above, by the fair value of a 2019. At that day, the volume-weighted average price of thereof: process. For the 2020-22 performance period, these conditionally awarded share at the start of the percentages are determined to be 285% for the CEO, and performance period. Because the fair value of number of shares Outstanding at Additional Additional Payout/Vested Cash value vested 200% for the CFO. The level for the CEO has remained TSR-Related Shares can be different from the fair value of December 31, 2018 conditional conditional number shares December shares* unchanged since 2007. The level for the CFO will be EPS-Related Shares, the number of conditionally awarded number of of EPS-shares (50%) 31, 2018 TSR-Related Shares can deviate from the number of increased from 175% to 200%, following a benchmarking TSR-shares (25%) analysis which demonstrated that the CFO level was conditionally awarded EPS-Related Shares. N. McKinstry 148,000 21,416 31,168 200,584 11,513 below market median. This is the first increase for CFO K.B. Entricken 47,246 6,837 9,950 64,033 3,675 level since 2007. Total 195,246 28,253 41,118 264,617 15,188 Shares owned by Executive Board members Senior management 518,488 64,828 129,657 712,973 40,925 Total 713,734 93,081 170,775 977,590 56,113 number of shares December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 N. McKinstry 462,131 354,638 * Cash value in thousands of euros; calculated as the number of shares vested multiplied by the volume weighted average price on February 21, 2019. K.B. Entricken 36,636 36,636 Total 498,767 391,274 These holdings are in line with the new share ownership policy for the Executive Board members which will be guidelines as recommended in the new remuneration submitted to the AGM of April 23, 2020. 76 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 77 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Retirements and other benefits Supervisory Board Remuneration Supervisory Board remuneration The retirements and other beneﬁts for which Executive Board members are eligible are intended to be The Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation of in thousands of euros Member Selection and Member Audit Committee 2019 2018 competitive in the relevant market and may evolve year the Selection and Remuneration Committee, also Remuneration Committee on year. Executive Board members are eligible for reviewed its own remuneration and established a F.J.G.M. Cremers, Chairman Co-chairman 114 117 beneﬁts such as health insurance, life insurance, a car, remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board, in line R.D. Hooft Graafland, Chairman 97 100 and to participate in whatever all-employee plans may be with the new Dutch law which implements the amended Vice-Chairman offered at any given point. Ms. McKinstry and SRD. This policy will also be submitted to the AGM of April Mr. Entricken participate in health and wellness programs 23, 2020. According to this policy, the remuneration for B.J.F.X. Bodson 1 22 – as well as the deﬁned contribution retirement savings the Supervisory Board aims to attract and retain the high J.A. Horan Co-chairman 100 91 plan of Wolters Kluwer United States. In addition, caliber individuals on the Supervisory Board with C.F.H.H. Vogelzang 2 X 58 – Ms. McKinstry will receive a benefit from a now closed, relevant skills and experience to guide the development frozen defined benefit plan in the United States, similar to and execution of the company strategy, and create A.E. Ziegler X 95 95 other U.S. employees who were employed at the time long-term value creation. The remuneration is not tied to B.F.J. Angelici 3 20 85 when this plan was active. the performance of the company and therefore includes B.J. Noteboom 3 25 82 fixed compensation only. In case of exceptional CEO pay-ratio circumstances ad-hoc committees may have to be F.M. Russo 4 X 97 97 The pay-ratio, obtained by dividing the total 2019 established, for which the Chairman and members may Total 628 667 remuneration for the CEO by the average of the total 2019 receive a pro-rated compensation at the levels of the fee 1 Appointed at the AGM of 2019, with effect from September 1, 2019 remuneration of all employees worldwide, is 81 (2018: 84). for the Audit Committee capped at five times the annual 2 Appointed at the AGM of 2019 For this purpose, the total CEO remuneration is based on fee of the Audit Committee. The Supervisory Board seeks 3 Retired after the AGM of 2019 4 Retired at year-end 2019 the remuneration costs as stated in the table advice from an independent external remuneration Remuneration of the Executive Board – IFRS based, minus advisor. Resolutions are always taken in the full tax-related costs. The average employee remuneration is Supervisory Board. Fees members of the Supervisory Board (AEX) companies, and selected European companies, as obtained by dividing the 2019 total personnel expenses as The table below shows the fee schedule for the members well as the international composition of the Supervisory stated in Note 13 – Personnel Expenses (after subtracting of the Supervisory Board. Taking into consideration the Board, it will be proposed to the AGM on April 23, 2020, to the CEO’s remuneration), by the reported average number responsibilities of Supervisory Board members, increase the Supervisory Board remuneration. of FTEs (minus one). As such, both the total CEO remuneration levels at other two-tier board Dutch listed remuneration (minus tax-related costs) and the average total remuneration of all employees (minus the CEO’s in euros Annual fee 2020 Annual fee 2019 Annual fee 2018 (proposed) remuneration) are based on IFRS standards. The difference between the 2018 and 2019 ratios can be Chairman 112,000 100,000 100,000 explained by the higher average employee pay in euros in Vice-Chairman 83,500 75,000 75,000 2019 following an appreciation of mainly the U.S. dollar. Members 70,000 65,000 65,000 Other information Chairman Audit Committee 22,500 20,000 20,000 The company does not grant any personal loans, Members Audit Committee 16,500 15,000 15,000 guarantees, or the like to Executive Board or Supervisory Chairman Selection and Remuneration Committee 17,500* 15,000** 15,000** Board members. Members Selection and Remuneration Committee 11,500 10,000 10,000 Travel allowance for intercontinental travel 5,000 per meeting 3,000 per meeting 3,000 per meeting * Due to the co-chairmanship, each co-chairman will receive €14,500 ** Due to the co-chairmanship, each co-chairman received €12,500 Shares owned by Supervisory Board members At December 31, 2019, none of the members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Wolters Kluwer (2018: Mr. Noteboom owned 4,865 shares in Wolters Kluwer). 78 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 79 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Five-year overview of annual changes in remuneration (IFRS based) Below table provides an overview of the Executive Board Members of the Supervisory Board are independent from 2019 Financial Statements remuneration, Supervisory Board remuneration, company the company. Their remuneration is not tied to the performance, and average employee remuneration of the performance of the company and therefore includes fixed last five years. compensation only. 82 Consolidated Financial Statements 82 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in thousands of euros, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 83 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Executive Board remuneration (excluding tax related cost) 84 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows N. McKinstry 7,932 7,792 7,661 6,649 7,026 86 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Annual change (in %) 1.8 1.7 15.2 (5.4) K.B. Entricken 3,181 3,298 3,103 2,697 2,734 88 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Total Equity Annual change (in %) (3.6) 6.3 15.1 (1.4) Supervisory Board remuneration F.J.G.M. Cremers, Chairman1 114 117 60 – – 89 Notes to the Consolidated R.D. Hooft Graafland, Vice-Chairman 97 100 80 80 66 B.J.F.X. Bodson 2 22 – – – – J.A. Horan3 100 91 88 52 – Financial Statements C.F.H.H. Vogelzang4 58 – – – – A.E Ziegler1 95 95 57 – – 89 Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation 134 Note 22 – Financial Assets F.M. Russo5 97 97 87 54 – 92 Note 2 – Significant Accounting Policies 134 Note 23 – Tax Assets and Liabilities B.J. Angelici6 20 85 72 75 64 94 Note 3 – Accounting Estimates and Judgments 137 Note 24 – Inventories B.J. Noteboom6 25 82 72 75 61 95 Note 4 – Benchmark Figures 138 Note 25 – Contract Assets and Liabilities P.N. Wakkie7 – – 25 88 77 101 Note 5 – Segment Reporting 141 Note 26 – Other Receivables L.P. Forman7 – – 32 98 77 103 Note 6 – Revenues 141 Note 27 – Cash and Cash Equivalents R. Qureshi8 – – – 23 60 107 Note 7 – Earnings per Share 142 Note 28 – Trade and Other Payables B.M. Dalibard9 – – – – 22 108 Note 8 – Acquisitions and Divestments 142 Note 29 – Long-term Debt Company’s performance Organic growth (in %) 4.3 4.3 3.4 2.8 2.7 112 Note 9 – Assets/Liabilities Classified as Held for Sale 147 Note 30 – Financial Risk Management Adjusted operating profit margin (in %) 23.6 23.1 22.2 22.2 21.4 114 Note 10 – Sales Costs 155 Note 31 – Employee Benefits Stock price quotation December 31 (in €) 65.02 51.66 43.48 34.42 30.97 115 Note 11 – General and Administrative Costs 164 Note 32 – Provisions Stock price change (in %) 26 19 26 11 22 115 Note 12 – Other Operating Income and (Expense) 166 Note 33 – Capital and Reserves Total Shareholder Return (in %) 28 21 29 14 26 116 Note 13 – Personnel Expenses 168 Note 34 – Share-based Payments Average remuneration on a full-time equivalent (FTE) basis of employees 116 Note 14 – Amortization, Impairment, and Depreciation 171 Note 35 – Related Party Transactions Average pay per FTE, excluding CEO 97.6 92.3 93.9 90.0 86.7 117 Note 15 – Financing Results 171 Note 36 – Audit Fees 1 Appointed at the AGM of 2017 6 Retired after the AGM of 2019 118 Note 16 – Income Tax Expense 172 Note 37 – Commitments, Contingent Assets, and 2 Appointed at the AGM of 2019, with effect from September 1, 2019 7 Retired after the AGM of 2017 Contingent Liabilities 3 Appointed at the AGM of 2016 8 Retired after the AGM of 2016 120 Note 17 – Non-controlling Interests 4 Appointed at the AGM of 2019 9 Retired after the AGM of 2015 Appointed at the AGM of 2016; retired per year-end 2019 173 Note 38 – Remuneration of the Executive Board 122 Note 18 – 5 Goodwill, Acquired Identifiable Intangible and Supervisory Board Assets, and Other Intangible Assets Alphen aan den Rijn, February 25, 2020 174 Note 39 – Overview of Significant Participations 127 Note 19 – Property, Plant, and Equipment 176 Note 40 – Events after Balance Sheet Date 128 Note 20 – Leasing Supervisory Board 132 Note 21 – Investments in Equity-accounted Investees 80 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 81 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros, for the year ended December 31 2019 2018 restated* Comprehensive income Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Proﬁt for the year 669 656 Other comprehensive income in millions of euros, unless otherwise stated, 2019 2018 for the year ended December 31 restated* Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the statement of profit or loss: Revenues Note 5 and 6 4,612 4,259 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 72 134 Cost of revenues 1,385 1,297 Exchange differences on translation of equity-accounted investees 0 1 Gross proﬁt Note 5 3,227 2,962 Cost of hedging – changes in fair value (4) (4) Net gains/(losses) on hedges of net investments in foreign Sales costs Note 10 808 753 operations (5) (8) General and administrative costs Note 11 1,512 1,398 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ﬂow Total operating expenses Note 5 2,320 2,151 hedges (4) 23 Net change in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges reclassiﬁed to Other operating income and (expense) Note 12 1 156 the statement of proﬁt or loss Note 15 (5) (10) Operating proﬁt Note 5 908 967 Tax on other comprehensive income Note 23 2 0 Financing income 25 21 Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of profit Financing costs (83) (98) or loss: Other finance income/(costs) 5 (2) Remeasurement gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 31 8 12 Total financing results Note 15 (53) (79) Tax on other comprehensive income Note 23 (2) (4) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 62 144 Share of proﬁt of equity-accounted investees, net of tax Note 21 3 2 Proﬁt before tax 858 890 Total comprehensive income for the year 731 800 Attributable to: Income tax expense Note 16 (189) (234) – Owners of the company 730 800 Proﬁt for the year 669 656 – Non-controlling interests 1 0 Attributable to: Total 731 800 – Owners of the company 669 656 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. – Non-controlling interests Note 17 0 0 Proﬁt for the year 669 656 Earnings per share (EPS) (€) Basic EPS Note 7 2.47 2.37 Diluted EPS Note 7 2.46 2.35 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. 82 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 83 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) in millions of euros, for the year ended December 31 2019 2018 in millions of euros, for the year ended December 31 2019 2018 restated* restated* Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Proﬁt for the year 669 656 Capital expenditure (226) (214) Adjustments for: Acquisition spending, net of cash acquired Note 8 (34) (166) Financing results Note 15 53 79 Receipts from divestments, net of cash disposed Note 8 40 307 Share of proﬁt of equity-accounted investees, net of tax Note 21 (3) (2) Dividends received Note 21 0 1 Income tax expense Note 16 189 234 Cash from settlement of derivatives (11) (11) Amortization, impairments, and depreciation Note 14 475 463 Net cash used in investing activities (231) (83) Additions to provisions Note 32 20 27 Release of provisions Note 32 (4) (19) Cash flows from financing activities Fair value changes of contingent considerations Note 12 (9) (1) Repayment of loans (145) (752) Book (proﬁt)/loss on divestments of operations Note 8 4 (163) Proceeds from new loans 211 147 Curtailment (gain)/loss on employee benefits Note 31 (16) 2 Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities (69) (67) Remeasurement loss on assets classified as held for sale Note 9 2 – Collateral received/(paid) Note 30 2 – Share-based payments Note 34 25 22 Repurchased shares Note 33 (350) (550) Total adjustments 736 642 Dividends paid (280) (277) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (631) (1,499) Changes in working capital: Inventories (2) (3) Net cash ﬂow 240 (581) Contract assets (26) 4 Trade and other receivables (62) (75) Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts at January 1 179 751 Deferred income and other contract liabilities 74 72 Foreign exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables (11) 42 and bank overdrafts 15 9 Autonomous movements in working capital (27) 40 194 760 Interest paid (including the interest portion of lease Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts at payments) (82) (124) December 31 Note 27 434 179 Interest received 25 21 Paid income tax Note 23 (195) (206) Add: Bank overdrafts at December 31 Note 27 468 604 Appropriation of provisions Note 32 (20) (22) Less: Cash included in assets classified as held for sale at Additional defined benefit plan contributions (2) (5) December 31 Note 9 (3) – Other (2) (1) Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position at December 31 Note 27 899 783 Net cash from operating activities 1,102 1,001 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. 84 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 85 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (continued) in millions of euros, at December 31 2019 2018 January 1, 2018 in millions of euros, at December 31 2019 2018 January 1, 2018 restated* restated* restated* restated* Non-current assets Equity Goodwill and intangible assets Note 18 5,694 5,785 5,581 Issued share capital Note 33 33 34 35 Property, plant, and equipment Note 19 95 89 96 Share premium reserve 87 87 87 Right-of-use assets Note 20 341 231 220 Legal reserves 242 182 20 Investments in equity-accounted investees Note 21 8 15 11 Other reserves 2,018 1,951 2,115 Financial assets Note 22 39 42 21 Equity attributable to the owners of the Contract assets Note 25 20 19 17 company Note 48 2,380 2,254 2,257 Deferred tax assets Note 23 102 107 94 Non-controlling interests Note 17 0 0 4 Total non-current assets 6,299 6,288 6,040 Total equity 2,380 2,254 2,261 Current assets Non-current liabilities Inventories Note 24 73 71 94 Bonds 1,629 1,628 1,627 Contract assets Note 25 137 113 113 Private placements 163 407 396 Trade receivables Note 25 1,087 1,022 949 Lease liabilities 293 188 169 Other receivables Note 26 233 243 206 Other long-term debt 26 26 17 Current income tax assets Note 23 22 24 9 Total long-term debt Note 29 2,111 2,249 2,209 Cash and cash equivalents Note 27 899 783 1,020 Assets classified as held for sale Note 9 25 – 247 Deferred tax liabilities Note 23 348 356 301 Total current assets 2,476 2,256 2,638 Employee beneﬁts Note 31 122 143 150 Provisions Note 32 5 11 3 Total assets 8,775 8,544 8,678 Total non-current liabilities 2,586 2,759 2,663 * Restated for IFRS 16, IFRIC 23, and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Current liabilities Deferred income Note 25 1,679 1,592 1,486 Other contract liabilities Note 25 39 45 43 Trade and other payables Note 28 901 893 866 Current income tax liabilities Note 23 163 165 127 Short-term provisions Note 32 24 21 41 Borrowings and bank overdrafts Note 29 670 748 288 Short-term bonds and private placements Note 29 250 – 750 Short-term lease liabilities Note 29 75 67 73 Liabilities classified as held for sale Note 9 8 – 80 Total current liabilities 3,809 3,531 3,754 Total liabilities 6,395 6,290 6,417 Total equity and liabilities 8,775 8,544 8,678 * Restated for IFRS 16, IFRIC 23, and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. 86 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 87 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Total Equity Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros Legal reserves Other reserves Share premium Non-controlling Hedge reserve Issued share Legal reserve Shareholders’ Total equity* Translation Treasury Retained capital reserve participations reserve shares earnings equity interests Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation Balance at January 1, 2018, as originally reported 35 87 108 (114) 26 (247) 2,374 2,269 4 2,273 Effect of change in accounting policy General associates and jointly controlled entities. The significant (IFRS 16) (12) (12) (12) accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Restated balance at January 1, 2018 35 87 108 (114) 26 (247) 2,362 2,257 4 2,261 Reporting entity consolidated financial statements are set out in Note 2 Wolters Kluwer N.V. (‘the company’) with its subsidiaries Significant Accounting Policies and the relevant Profit for the year * 656 656 0 656 (together referred to as ‘the group’, and individually as respective notes to the consolidated financial Other comprehensive income for the 1 135 8 144 0 144 ‘group entities’) is a global leader in professional statements. The group entities have consistently applied year* information, software solutions, and services for the these policies. Total comprehensive income/(loss) for health, tax and accounting, ﬁnance, risk and compliance, the year* 1 135 664 800 0 800 and legal sectors. We help our customers make critical A list of participations has been filed with the Chamber of decisions every day by providing expert solutions that Commerce in The Hague, the Netherlands, and is available Transactions with owners of the combine deep domain knowledge with specialized from the company upon request. An overview of the company, recognized directly in equity: technology and services. significant participations is included in Note 39 – Overview Share-based payments 22 22 22 of Significant Participations. The group maintains operations across North America, Cancellation of shares (1) 419 (418) 0 0 Europe, Asia Pacific, and other regions (referred to as Basis of preparation Release LTIP shares 55 (55) 0 0 ‘Rest of World’). The company’s ordinary shares are Final cash dividend 2017 (181) (181) (2) (183) quoted on Euronext Amsterdam (WKL) and are included in Basis of measurement Interim cash dividend 2018 (94) (94) (94) the AEX and Euronext 100 indices. The consolidated financial statements have been Repurchased shares (550) (550) (550) prepared under the historical cost basis except for the The registered office of Wolters Kluwer N.V. is located at following material items in the consolidated statement of Other movements 26 (26) 0 (2) (2) Zuidpoolsingel 2, Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, financial position: Balance at December 31, 2018 34 87 134 (113) 161 (323) 2,274 2,254 0 2,254 with its statutory seat in Amsterdam and a registration • Financial assets and financial liabilities (including with the Dutch Commercial Register under number derivative financial instruments) measured at fair value; Balance at January 1, 2019 34 87 134 (113) 161 (323) 2,274 2,254 0 2,254 33.202.517. • Assets and liabilities held for sale; Profit for the year 669 669 0 669 • Contingent considerations; Statement of compliance • Share-based payments; and Other comprehensive income for the year (16) 71 6 61 1 62 The consolidated financial statements have been • Net defined employee benefit assets/liabilities. Total comprehensive income/(loss) for prepared in accordance with International Financial the year (16) 71 675 730 1 731 Reporting Standards (IFRS) and its interpretations, Functional and presentation currency prevailing as of December 31, 2019, as endorsed for use in The consolidated financial statements are presented in Transactions with owners of the the European Union by the European Commission. euros, which is the company’s functional and company, recognized directly in equity: presentation currency. Unless otherwise indicated, the Share-based payments 25 25 25 These financial statements were authorized for issuance financial information is in euros and has been rounded to by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board on the nearest million. Cancellation of shares (1) 343 (342) 0 0 February 25, 2020. The adoption of the financial Release LTIP shares 51 (51) 0 0 statements and the adoption of the dividend are reserved Use of estimates and judgments Final cash dividend 2018 (174) (174) (1) (175) for the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting of The preparation of financial statements in conformity Interim cash dividend 2019 (105) (105) (105) Shareholders on April 23, 2020. with IFRS requires management to make judgments, Repurchased shares (350) (350) (350) estimates, and assumptions that affect the application of Consolidated financial statements policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Other movements 5 (5) 0 0 The consolidated financial statements of the company at the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the Balance at December 31, 2019 33 87 139 (129) 232 (279) 2,297 2,380 0 2,380 and for the year ended December 31, 2019, comprise the reported amounts of income and expense. Refer to Note 3 * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. company and its subsidiaries and the group’s interest in Accounting Estimates and Judgments. 88 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 89 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Going concern IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments was • Within the movement schedule of deferred income, both The Executive Board and Supervisory Board have The group has applied the following standards and other retrospectively adopted on January 1, 2019, whereby the ‘Recognized as revenue in the year on new and existing assessed, during the preparation of the consolidated amendments for the first time for the annual reporting comparative financial information has been restated. contracts’ and ‘New and existing contracts with financial statements of the group, the going concern period commencing January 1, 2019: IFRIC 23 has had no impact on the comparative customers’ were understated by €145 million in the 2018 assumption. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board • IFRS 16 Leases; shareholders’ equity and comparative profit for the year. comparative figures. Refer to Note 25 – Contract Assets believe that no events or conditions give rise to doubt • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle In the comparative statement of financial position, IFRIC and Liabilities. about the ability of the group to continue in operation. (Amendments to IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12, and IAS 23); 23 resulted in a reclassification of €139 million and • The 2018 comparative figure for the aggregate amount This conclusion is drawn based on knowledge of the • Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation €115 million from deferred tax liabilities to current income of the transaction price allocated to the remaining group, the estimated economic outlook and related (Amendments to IFRS 9); tax liabilities at December 31, 2018, and January 1, 2018, performance obligations that are unsatisfied at identified risks and uncertainties. Furthermore, the • Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement respectively. In addition, €11 million of current income tax year-end is adjusted from €2,706 million to conclusion is based on a review of the three-year (Amendments to IAS 19); assets were netted against deferred tax liabilities at €2,836 million. Refer to Note 25 – Contract Assets and strategic plan and next year's budget, including expected • Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures December 31, 2018. The comparative financial information Liabilities. development in liquidity and capital, which includes the (Amendments to IAS 28); and in Note 16 – Income Tax Expense and Note 23 – Tax Assets evaluation of current credit facilities available, • IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments. and Liabilities is adjusted accordingly. In the comparative statement of financial position, legal contractual and expected maturities, and covenants. provisions were reclassified from trade and other Consequently, it has been concluded that it is reasonable Apart from IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23, the standards and Effect of forthcoming accounting standards payables to provisions (December 31, 2018, and January 1, to apply the going concern assumption that the group will amendments listed above did not have any impact on the The following other forthcoming amendments and new 2018: €9 million and €20 million respectively). This also continue to be in operation at least 12 months from the amounts recognized in the current or prior periods and standards are not yet effective for the year ended resulted in a reclassification of €11 million in the 2018 end of the reporting period. are not expected to significantly affect future periods. December 31, 2019, and have not been early adopted in statement of cash flows from autonomous movements in preparing these financial statements: working capital to additions to, release of, and Effect of new accounting standards IFRS 16 Leases was adopted on January 1, 2019, with the • Amendments to References to Conceptual Framework in appropriation of provisions. Except for the EU-endorsed amendments below, the use of certain practical expedients. The group applied the IFRS Standards; group has consistently applied the accounting policies set full retrospective approach whereby the comparative • Definition of Material (Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8); At January 1, 2018, the share buyback commitment of out in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies and the financial information has been restated. The key impact • Classification of liabilities as current or non-current €50 million is reclassified from trade and other payables relevant respective notes to the consolidated financial of IFRS 16 is disclosed in the table below. The full impact (Amendments to IAS 1); to treasury shares (within other reserves), since the statements, to all periods presented in these financial of IFRS 16 is summarized in Note 20 – Leasing. • Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS 3); commitment did not result in a liability at this date. This statements. • Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendments to IFRS resulted in a corresponding increase in total equity. 9, IAS 39, and IFRS 7); and Key impact of IFRS 16 • IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. At December 31, 2018, and January 1, 2018, an amount of €34 million is reclassified from retained earnings (within 2018* IFRS 16 2018 restated The group expects no significant impact because of these other reserves) to legal reserve participations (within Profit for the year 657 (1) 656 amendments and new standards. legal reserves). Comparatives In addition, certain minor reclassifications have been Right-of-use assets – 231 231 During the year, the group performed an in-depth analysis made to the comparative statement of cash flows and Lease liabilities (including short-term) – 255 255 of its reporting on the specific disclosure requirements of statement of financial position and the related notes to Equity attributable to the owners of the company 2,267 (13) 2,254 IFRS 15. As a result of this analysis, some of the 2018 conform to the current year presentation and to improve comparative disclosures were adjusted as follows: insights. These reclassifications have had no impact on Net cash from operating activities 934 67 1,001 • Within Tax & Accounting, Governance, Risk & Compliance the comparative shareholders’ equity and comparative Net cash used in financing activities (1,432) (67) (1,499) and Legal & Regulatory, reclassifications of respectively profit for the year. €86 million, €18 million, and €161 million from multi-year contracts to contracts one year or less are included in Adjusted operating profit margin (%) 23.0 0.1 23.1 the 2018 comparative figures, due to refinement of Cash conversion ratio (%) 105 (1) 104 internal definitions. Refer to Note 6 – Revenues. Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) 10.9 (0.3) 10.6 • Within Governance, Risk & Compliance, a reclassification of €37 million from at a point in time recognition to over Net debt 1,994 255 2,249 time recognition is included in the 2018 comparative Net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio 1.7 0.1 1.8 figures. Refer to Note 6 – Revenues. • Within the movement schedule of contract assets, the * Restated for certain reclassifications, as disclosed on the next page. 2018 comparative figures were restated due to separate disclosure of ‘Newly recognized cost to fulfil a contract’. Refer to Note 25 – Contract Assets and Liabilities. 90 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 91 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 2 – Significant Accounting Policies Net investment in foreign operations Net capital expenditure is the sum of capitalized Net investment in foreign operations includes equity expenditure on property, plant, and equipment and other financing and long-term intercompany loans for which intangible assets, less any carrying value of assets Except for the changes explained in Note 1 General and Foreign currency settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the disposed of. Basis of Presentation, the group has consistently applied Functional and presentation currency foreseeable future. Exchange differences arising from the the significant accounting policies to all periods Items included in the financial statements of each of the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, Dividends received relate to dividends received from presented in these consolidated financial statements. group entities are measured using the currency of the and of related hedges, are taken to the translation equity-accounted investees and financial assets The main principles for the determination and primary economic environment in which the group reserve of foreign operations in other comprehensive measured at fair value either through profit or loss or presentation of results and the valuation and entities operate (the functional currency). The income. other comprehensive income. presentation of assets and liabilities are described in the consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, relevant respective notes to the consolidated financial which is the group’s presentation currency. Main currency exchange rates Cash receipts and payments from the settlement of statements. derivative financial instruments are classified in the same Foreign currency transactions and balances rates to the euro 2019 2018 manner as the cash flows of the hedged items. The group Basis of consolidation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the U.S. dollar (average) 1.12 1.18 primarily uses derivatives for hedging its net investments functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at in U.S. dollar-denominated subsidiaries. As a result, cash U.S. dollar Subsidiaries the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and receipts and payments from settlement of derivatives are (at December 31) 1.12 1.15 Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the group. The losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions classified under cash flows from investing activities. group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has during the year, and from the translation of monetary rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Principles underlying the statement of cash flows Cash flows from financing activities entity and can affect those returns through its power over at year-end exchange rates, are recognized in profit or The cash flows from financing activities comprise the cash the entity. The principle of control is the basis for loss. General receipts and payments from issued and repurchased determining which entities are consolidated in the Bank overdrafts repayable on demand are included as shares, long-term debt instruments, short-term financing, consolidated financial statements. However, foreign currency differences arising from the cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities, and following items are recognized in other comprehensive to the extent that they form an integral part of the group’s dividends paid. Dividends paid relate to dividends paid to Loss of control income: cash management. However, in the statement of financial the owners of the company and the non-controlling Upon loss of control, the group derecognizes the assets • Qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge position, the bank overdrafts are presented separately as interests. and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling is effective; and the offsetting criteria are not met. interests, and the other components of equity related to • Qualifying net investment hedges on foreign operations the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising from the loss to the extent that the hedge is effective. Cash flows from operating activities of control is recognized in profit or loss. Cash flows from operating activities are calculated by the Non-monetary assets and liabilities in a foreign currency indirect method, by adjusting the consolidated profit for If the group retains any equity interest in the previous that are measured in terms of historical cost are the year for items that are not cash flows and for subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at translated using the exchange rate at the transaction autonomous movements in operating working capital the date that control is lost. Subsequently, the remaining date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in (excluding the impact from acquisitions/divestments, interest is accounted for as an equity-accounted investee foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are foreign exchanges differences, and reclassifications to or as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss translated to the functional currency at the foreign assets/liabilities held for sale). or other comprehensive income, depending on the level exchange rates prevailing on the dates the fair value was of influence retained. determined. Cash flows from operating activities include receipts from customers, cash payments to employees and suppliers, Transactions eliminated on consolidation Foreign operations paid financing costs of operating activities (including Intragroup balances transactions, and any unrealized The assets and liabilities of group companies are interest paid and received, interest portion of lease gains and losses arising from transactions between group translated to euros at foreign exchange rates prevailing at payments, and financing cash flow resulting from companies are eliminated in preparing the consolidated the end of the reporting period. Income and expenses of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting), financial statements. group companies are translated to euros at exchange acquisition and divestment-related costs, spending on rates on the dates of the transactions. All resulting restructuring provisions, and income taxes paid. Unrealized gains arising from transactions between the exchange differences are recognized as a component of group and its equity-accounted investees are eliminated other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. Cash flows from investing activities to the extent of the group’s interest in the equityCash flows from investing activities are those arising from accounted investees. When a foreign-denominated subsidiary and/or equitynet capital expenditure, acquisitions, the sale of accounted investee is disposed of, exchange differences subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees, dividends that were recorded in other comprehensive income prior received, and cash flows from settlement of derivatives. to the sale are reclassified through profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on divestments. 92 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 93 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 3 – Accounting Estimates and Judgments Note 4 – Benchmark Figures The preparation of financial statements in conformity period of the revision and future periods if the revision Benchmark figures refer to figures adjusted for nonperformance of the business. These figures are presented with IFRS requires management to make judgments, affects both current and future periods. Judgments made benchmark items and, where applicable, amortization and as additional information and do not replace the estimates, and assumptions that affect the application of by management in the application of IFRS that have a impairment of goodwill and acquired identifiable information in the consolidated financial statements. policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, significant effect on the financial statements and intangible assets. Adjusted figures are non-IFRS the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in compliant financial figures but are internally regarded as All figures are from continuing operations, unless stated reported amounts of income and expense. The estimates the next year are further discussed in the corresponding key performance indicators to measure the underlying otherwise. and underlying assumptions are based on historical notes to the statements of profit or loss and financial experience and other factors that are believed to be position: reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which Benchmark figures form the basis of making the judgments about carrying • Revenue recognition (see Note 6); values of assets and liabilities that are not clear from • Fair value of contingent considerations (see Note 8); in millions of euros, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* Change in Change in other sources. Actual results may differ from those • Accounting for income taxes (see Note 16); actual constant currencies (%) currencies (%) ** estimates and may result in material adjustments in the • Valuation, measurement, and impairment testing of next financial year(s). goodwill, acquired identifiable intangible assets, and Revenues 4,612 4,259 8 5 other intangible assets (see Note 18); Organic revenue growth (%) 4 4 The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed • Employee benefits (see Note 31); and Adjusted operating proﬁt 1,089 986 11 5 on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates • Legal and judicial proceedings (see Note 32). Adjusted operating proﬁt margin (%) 23.6 23.1 are recognized in the period in which the estimate is Adjusted net proﬁt 790 682 16 9 revised if the revision affects only that period, or the Adjusted net ﬁnancing costs Note 15 (58) (77) (25) (19) Adjusted free cash ﬂow 807 762 6 1 Cash conversion ratio (%) 96 104 Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) 11.8 10.6 Net debt Note 29 2,199 2,249 (2) Net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio 1.6 1.8 Diluted adjusted EPS (€) 2.90 2.45 19 Diluted adjusted EPS in constant currencies (€) 2.76 2.48 11 Diluted adjusted free cash ﬂow per share (€) 2.96 2.73 8 3 * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. ** Constant currencies at €/$ 1.18. Revenue reconciliation € million % Revenues 2018* 4,259 Organic change 183 4 Acquisitions 32 1 Divestments (21) 0 Currency impact 159 3 Revenues 2019 4,612 8 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. 94 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 95 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Reconciliation between operating profit and adjusted operating profit Reconciliation between net cash from operating activities and adjusted free cash flow 2019 2018* 2019 2018* Operating proﬁt 908 967 Net cash from operating activities 1,102 1,001 Amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable Capital expenditure (226) (214) intangible assets Note 14 182 175 Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities (69) (67) Non-benchmark items in operating proﬁt Note 12 (1) (156) Acquisition-related costs Note 8 1 4 Adjusted operating proﬁt 1,089 986 Paid divestment expenses Note 8 1 3 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Dividends received Note 21 0 1 Net tax charge/(beneﬁt) on divested assets and consolidation Reconciliation between profit for the year and adjusted net profit of platform technology, and mandatory repatriation tax (2) 34 Adjusted free cash ﬂow (C) 807 762 2019 2018* * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Proﬁt for the year attributable to the owners of the company (A) 669 656 Amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets 182 175 Return on invested capital (ROIC) Tax benefits on amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets and goodwill (48) (43) 2019 2018* Non-benchmark items, net of tax (13) (106) Adjusted operating proﬁt 1,089 986 Adjusted net proﬁt (B) 790 682 Allocated tax (257) (247) * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Net operating proﬁt after allocated tax (NOPAT) 832 739 Average invested capital 7,065 6,932 Reconciliation between total financing results and adjusted net financing costs ROIC (NOPAT/Average invested capital) (%) 11.8 10.6 2019 2018* * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Total ﬁnancing results Note 15 (53) (79) Non-benchmark items in total ﬁnancing results Note 15 (5) 2 Adjusted net ﬁnancing costs (58) (77) Allocated tax is benchmark tax rate multiplied by identifiable intangible assets, goodwill amortized adjusted operating profit. pre-IFRS, and goodwill written off to equity pre-IFRS * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. (excluding acquired identifiable intangible assets and Invested capital is defined as total assets minus current goodwill impaired and/or fully amortized), less any Summary of non-benchmark items liabilities, excluding investments in equity-accounted related deferred tax liabilities. The average invested investees, deferred tax assets, non-operating working capital is based on five measurement points during the 2019 2018 capital, and cash and cash equivalents. This total is year. Included in operating profit: adjusted for accumulated amortization on acquired Other operating income and (expense) Note 12 1 156 Included in total financing results: Other ﬁnance income/(costs) Note 15 5 (2) Total non-benchmark items before tax 6 154 Tax beneﬁt/(expense) on non-benchmark items 6 (57) Impact of changes in tax rates and mandatory repatriation tax 1 9 Non-benchmark items, net of tax 13 106 96 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 97 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Per share information Cash conversion ratio in euro, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* 2019 2018* Total number of ordinary shares outstanding at December 31 Operating proﬁt 908 967 (in millions of shares) Note 33 266.7 271.2 Amortization, depreciation, and impairments Note 14 475 463 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (D) EBITDA 1,383 1,430 (in millions of shares) Note 7 270.3 276.7 Non-benchmark items in operating proﬁt Note 12 (1) (156) Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (E) Adjusted EBITDA 1,382 1,274 (in millions of shares) Note 7 272.2 278.8 Autonomous movements in working capital (27) 40 Capital expenditure (226) (214) Adjusted EPS (B/D) 2.92 2.47 Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities (69) (67) Diluted adjusted EPS (B/E) 2.90 2.45 Interest portion of lease payments (11) (7) Diluted adjusted EPS in constant currencies 2.76 2.48 Adjusted operating cash ﬂow (H) 1,049 1,026 Basic EPS (A/D) Note 7 2.47 2.37 Adjusted operating proﬁt (I) 1,089 986 Diluted EPS (A/E) Note 7 2.46 2.35 Cash conversion ratio (H/I) (%) 96 104 Adjusted free cash ﬂow per share (C/D) 2.98 2.75 Diluted adjusted free cash ﬂow per share (C/E) 2.96 2.73 * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Non-benchmark items in operating profit Loss on remeasurement of disposal groups Non-benchmark items relate to income and expenses Loss on remeasurement of disposal groups include losses Benchmark tax rate arising from circumstances or transactions that, given for any initial or subsequent write-down of the disposal their size or nature, are clearly distinct from the ordinary groups to fair value less costs of disposal. 2019 2018* activities of the group and are excluded from the Income tax expense Note 16 189 234 benchmark figures. Apart from amortization and Fair value changes of contingent considerations Tax beneﬁt on amortization and impairment of acquired impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets, Results from changes in the fair value of contingent identifiable intangible assets 48 43 non-benchmark items in operation profit include the considerations are not considered to be part of the Tax beneﬁt/(expense) on non-benchmark items 6 (57) items below. Refer also to Note 12 – Other Operating ordinary activities of the group and have been included in Impact of changes in tax rates and mandatory repatriation tax 1 9 Income and (Expense). other operating income and expense in the statement of profit or loss. Tax on adjusted proﬁt (F) 244 229 Divestment-related results Adjusted net proﬁt (B) 790 682 Divestment-related results are event-driven gains and Additions to acquisition integration provisions Adjustment for non-controlling interests 0 0 losses incurred by the group from the sale of activities Additions to acquisition integration provisions are those Adjusted proﬁt before tax (G) 1,034 911 (subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees). These one-time non-recurring costs incurred by the group to results also include the loss on remeasurement of integrate activities acquired by business combination and Benchmark tax rate (F/G) (%) 23.6 25.1 disposal groups, divestment expenses, and restructuring have been included in other operating income and of stranded costs, and have been included in other expense in the statement of profit or loss. * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. operating income and expense in the statement of profit or loss. Other non-benchmark items Non-benchmark items, which cannot be classified in the Acquisition-related costs categories above, relate to income and expenses arising Acquisition-related costs are one-time non-recurring cost from circumstances or transactions that, given their size incurred by the group resulting from acquisition or nature, are clearly distinct from the ordinary activities activities. The acquisition-related costs are directly of the group and are excluded from the benchmark attributable to acquisitions, such as legal fees, broker/ figures. bank costs, and commercial and financial due diligence fees, and have been included in other operating income and expense in the statement of profit or loss. 98 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 99 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Non-benchmark items in financing results Non-benchmark tax items in income tax expense Note 5 – Segment Reporting Non-benchmark items in financing results include the This item includes the tax effect on non-benchmark items below items. Refer also to Note 15 – Financing results. as defined above, and on the amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets, and reporting by division Health Tax & Governance, Legal & Corporate** Total Accounting Risk & Regulatory Divestment-related results on equity-accounted investees to income tax expense relating to any material changes in Compliance When equity accounting for equity-accounted investees (income) tax laws and (income) tax rates in the 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018 2019 2018* ceases, the group calculates the book gain or loss as the jurisdictions where Wolters Kluwer operates. Revenues from third parties 1,186 1,109 1,413 1,295 1,068 975 945 880 – – 4,612 4,259 difference between the sum of the fair value of proceeds Cost of revenues 376 348 397 379 294 277 318 293 – – 1,385 1,297 less costs of disposal, the fair value of retained investment, and any amount reclassified from other Gross proﬁt 810 761 1,016 916 774 698 627 587 0 0 3,227 2,962 comprehensive income less the carrying amount of the investment at the date on which significant influence is Sales costs 205 190 267 253 149 135 187 175 – – 808 753 lost. General and administrative costs 356 303 405 408 319 309 368 327 64 51 1,512 1,398 Book results and fair value changes of financial assets Total operating expenses 561 493 672 661 468 444 555 502 64 51 2,320 2,151 measured at fair value through profit or loss Fair value changes of financial assets measured at fair Other operating income and value through profit or loss and any gain or loss on the (expense) (6) 75 0 0 0 55 7 26 0 0 1 156 sale of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. Operating proﬁt 243 343 344 255 306 309 79 111 (64) (51) 908 967 Financing component employee benefits Amortization of acquired Financing component employee benefits relates to net identifiable intangible assets 35 37 42 65 35 37 32 27 – – 144 166 interest results on the net defined benefit liability or Impairment of acquired asset of the group’s defined benefit pension plans and identifiable intangible other employee benefit plans. assets*** 36 – 2 9 – – – – – – 38 9 Non-benchmark expense/ (income) in operating proﬁt 6 (75) 0 0 0 (55) (7) (26) 0 0 (1) (156) Adjusted operating proﬁt 320 305 388 329 341 291 104 112 (64) (51) 1,089 986 Amortization of other intangible assets and depreciation of PPE and right-of-use assets 54 62 97 90 67 62 58 53 1 0 277 267 Impairment of other intangible and right-of-use assets*** 2 7 11 10 0 1 3 3 – – 16 21 Goodwill and acquired identifiable intangible assets at December 31 1,370 1,424 1,599 1,622 1,186 1,164 965 1,009 – – 5,120 5,219 Capital expenditure 33 36 74 71 73 65 45 40 1 2 226 214 Assets classified as held for sale at December 31 – – – – – – 20 – 5 – 25 – Liabilities classified as held for sale at December 31 – – – – – – 8 – – – 8 – Number of FTEs at December 31 2,903 2,866 6,697 6,649 4,330 4,155 4,307 4,343 124 121 18,361 18,134 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. ** The corporate function does not represent an operating segment. *** See Note 18 – Goodwill, Acquired Identifiable Intangible Assets and Other Intangible Assets and Note 20 – Leasing. 100 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 101 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Accounting policies The Executive Board reviews the Platform Organization) and Note 6 – Revenues An operating segment is a financial performance of the associated FTEs are allocated to the component of the group that segments and the allocation of operating segments. engages in business activities from resources based on revenues and 2019 2018* which it may earn revenues and incur adjusted operating profit. Revenues Non-current liabilities, including Revenues from contracts with third parties 4,612 4,259 expenses. The four global operating from internal transactions between interest-bearing liabilities and lease * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. divisions are based on strategic the operating segments are liabilities, are not considered to be customer segments: Health, Tax & conducted, at arm’s length, with segment liabilities as these are Accounting, Governance, Risk & terms comparable to transactions primarily managed by the corporate Accounting policies Compliance, and Legal & Regulatory. with third parties. These revenues treasury and tax functions. Revenues represent the amount of In case of a transfer of rights (i.e. Services This segment information by division are limited and therefore not Operating working capital is not consideration the group expects to right-to-use license), which permits Revenues from providing services is based on the group’s management presented separately (i.e. have been managed at the operating segment be entitled to – arising from the licensee to exploit those rights are recognized in the period in which and internal reporting structure. All eliminated). level but at a country or regional contracts with customers in the freely and the group as a licensor the related performance obligations operating segments are regularly level. ordinary course of business – in has no remaining obligations to are satisfied. For fixed-price reviewed by the Executive Board, Segment results reported to the exchange for transferring promised perform after delivery, revenue is contracts, revenue is recognized within Wolters Kluwer defined as the Executive Board include items Operating segments that do not goods and/or services to customers, recognized at the time the control of based on the actual service provided group’s chief operating decisiondirectly attributable to a segment as meet the quantitative thresholds excluding amounts collected on the license is transferred to the up to the end of the reporting period maker, to make decisions about well as those that can be allocated and that have similar economic behalf of third parties. Revenue is customer, considering any significant as a proportion of the total services resources to be allocated to the on a reasonable basis. Costs and characteristics have been recognized once the performance customer acceptance clauses. to be provided because the customer segments and to assess their capital expenditure incurred on aggregated into a single reportable obligations are fulfilled (i.e. when the receives and uses the benefits performance to the extent whereby behalf of the segments by Global segment. customer obtains control over those Non-refundable upfront fees simultaneously. In case of fixed-price discrete financial information is Business Services and Digital goods and/or services). charged to the customers are often contracts, the customer pays the available. eXperience Group (formerly Global not considered to be a distinct fixed amount based on a payment Subscriptions performance obligation as these schedule. If the value of the services Revenues related to subscriptions considerations do not result in a rendered by the group exceeds the Geographical information are recognized over the period in transfer of goods and/or services. invoiced amounts, a contract asset which the goods are transferred and/ Instead, these fees are considered (unbilled revenue) is recognized. If total non-current assets per region*: 2019 2018** or content is made available online an advance payment for future the invoiced amounts exceed the and when the goods and/or content goods and/or services and therefore value of the services rendered, a % % involved are similar in value over these payments are recognized as contract liability (deferred income) is The Netherlands 690 11 700 11 time. Subscription income received revenue when those future goods recognized. If the contract includes Europe (excluding the Netherlands) 1,482 24 1,535 25 or receivable in advance of the and/or services are transferred. an hourly fee, revenue is recognized United States and Canada 3,899 63 3,807 62 delivery of goods and/or content is in the amount to which the company Asia Paciﬁc 85 1 88 1 presented as deferred income (a Goods has a right to invoice. Customers are Rest of World 25 1 30 1 contract liability) in the statement of Revenues from the sale of goods are invoiced on a periodical basis and Total 6,181 100 6,160 100 financial position. normally recognized upon shipment consideration is payable when or upon delivery when control is invoiced. * Non-current assets per region exclude deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Licenses transferred to the customer, ** Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. License fees paid for the use of the provided that the ultimate Implementation services group’s software products and/or collectability and final acceptance by Revenues from the sale of services are recognized in the customer is reasonably assured. implementation services are based Other disclosures accordance with the substance of on input or output methods, subject There are no customers with a revenue stream that For the revenues per geographical region, refer to the agreement. When goods are sold with a right to to the contractual arrangements, exceeds 10% of the group’s total revenues. Note 6 – Revenues. return the goods, the group and are recognized when the related Revenues from licenses representing recognizes the revenues of the performance obligations are a right to access are recognized over transferred goods for the amount satisfied or upon full completion of time on a straight-line basis. In case the group expects to be entitled to, a the promise to the customer, a right-to-access license is invoiced refund contract liability in the depending upon which method to the customer as a one-time statement of financial position, and faithfully depicts the group’s upfront fee, revenue is recognized an asset for its right to recover performance towards completion. between 12 and 60 months goods on settling the refund depending on the nature of the contract liability. license. 102 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 103 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Multiple-element contracts to all distinct performance For digital products and services, Disaggregation of revenues There are arrangements that include obligations, unless there is a specific cost of revenues may include data various combinations of discount policy for that performance maintenance, hosting, license fees, reporting per division Health Tax & Governance, Legal & Total Accounting ** Risk & Regulatory ** performance obligations, such as obligation. Volume-discounts, return royalties, product support, Compliance **/*** software licenses, services, training, of goods, and usage-based prices personnel expenses, subcontracted 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* and implementation. A performance are estimated at contract inception work, training, and other costs Revenue recognition obligation is only distinct if the and periodically reassessed during incurred to support and maintain the At a point in time recognition 249 254 235 231 391 376 280 281 1,155 1,142 customer can benefit from the goods the contract term. The group products, applications, and services. and/or services on its own or considers normal price increases Over time recognition 937 855 1,178 1,064 677 599 665 599 3,457 3,117 together with other resources that based on local inflation rates or For print products, these costs may Revenues from third parties 1,186 1,109 1,413 1,295 1,068 975 945 880 4,612 4,259 are readily available to the customer, customary business practices as include cost for paper, printing and and the promise to transfer goods compensation for cost price binding, royalties, personnel Revenue per contract and/or services is separately increases and not as variable expenses, subcontracted work, Contracts one year or less 822 764 1,129 1,052 823 758 689 641 3,463 3,215 identifiable from other promises in consideration. Any pricing based on shipping costs, and other incurred Multi-year contracts 364 345 284 243 245 217 256 239 1,149 1,044 the contract. Goods and/or services index that is beyond compensation costs. that are not distinct are bundled for cost price increases is estimated Revenues from third parties 1,186 1,109 1,413 1,295 1,068 975 945 880 4,612 4,259 with other goods and/or services in at contract inception, periodically Critical estimates and judgments * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. ** Within Tax & Accounting, Governance, Risk & Compliance, and Legal & Regulatory, reclassifications of respectively €86 million, the contract, until a bundle of goods reassessed and recognized over the Revenue recognition requires €18 million, and €161 million from multi-year contracts to contracts one year or less are included in the 2018 comparative figures, and/or services is created that is term of the contract. estimates and judgments. IFRS 15 due to a refinement of internal definitions. *** Within Governance, Risk & Compliance, a reclassification of €37 million from at a point in time recognition to over time recognition distinct, resulting in a single Revenue from Contracts with is included in the 2018 comparative figures. performance obligation. Financing components Customers requires management to As a practical expedient, the group make judgments on the Where performance obligations are does not adjust the consideration for characteristics of a performance Revenues by media format satisfied over different periods of the effects of a significant financing obligation, (un)bundling of multitime, revenues are allocated to the component if the group expects that element arrangements and reporting per division Health Tax & Governance, Legal & Total Accounting Risk & Regulatory respective performance obligations the period between the transfer of assessment whether the revenue Compliance based on relative stand-alone the promised goods and/or services should be recognized over time or at 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* selling prices at the inception of the to the customer and payment by the a point in time. In addition, Digital 1,012 931 1,312 1,190 656 603 624 550 3,604 3,274 arrangement, and revenues are customer is one year or less. The management makes estimates of the Services 6 6 45 44 402 361 60 59 513 470 recognized as each performance group has no significant contracts stand-alone selling prices of obligation is satisfied. with periods of one year or more performance obligations, variable Print 168 172 56 61 10 11 261 271 495 515 between the transfer of goods and/ considerations such as provisions for Revenues from third parties 1,186 1,109 1,413 1,295 1,068 975 945 880 4,612 4,259 Agent/principal arrangements or services and the payment of the returns, and the product and * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. If the group acts as an agent, consideration. Consequently, the contract life. whereby the group sells goods and/ group does not adjust any of the or services on behalf of a principal, transaction prices for the time value Also, when another party is involved Revenues by type the group recognizes the amount of of money. in providing goods and/or services to revenues were generated by the following types: 2019 2018* the net consideration as revenues. If a customer, management makes a the group acts as a principal, the Warranty judgment whether the promise to Digital and service subscription 3,087 2,793 group recognizes the gross amount In most cases, any warranty given in the customer is a performance Print subscription 202 209 of consideration for the specific connection with the sale of products obligation by the group (i.e. acting as Other recurring 292 288 goods and/or services transferred and/or services does not qualify as a a principal), or by another party (i.e. Total recurring revenues 3,581 3,290 once the performance obligations distinct service and therefore these the group acts as an agent). Print books 212 226 are satisfied. general warranties are not Legal Services transactional 246 214 considered to be a separate For the judgments applied to the Financial Services transactional 105 98 Variable consideration performance obligation. incremental cost to obtain a Other non-recurring 468 431 Discounts (including volume Consequently, no warranty contract, refer to Note 25 – Contract Assets and Liabilities. Total revenues 4,612 4,259 discounts), return of goods, usageprovisions are recognized. based prices, and pricing based on * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. index are the most common forms of Cost of revenues variable considerations within the Cost of revenues comprises directly group. A discount is often attributable costs of goods and/or contractually agreed and allocated services sold. 104 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 105 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Recurring/non-recurring revenues Note 7 – Earnings per Share reporting per division Health Tax & Governance, Legal & Total Accounting Risk & Regulatory Compliance The group presents basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* 2019 2018* data for its ordinary shares. company, by the weighted average number of ordinary Recurring revenues 1,039 951 1,217 1,107 618 563 707 669 3,581 3,290 shares outstanding during the year of 270.3 million (2018: Non-recurring revenues 147 158 196 188 450 412 238 211 1,031 969 Basic earnings per share 276.7 million), after adjustment for own ordinary shares Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the held (treasury shares). Revenues from third parties 1,186 1,109 1,413 1,295 1,068 975 945 880 4,612 4,259 proﬁt for the year of €669 million (2018: €656 million) * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Profit for the year Geographical information 2019 2018* revenues were generated in the following regions 2019 2018* Proﬁt for the year attributable to the owners of the company (A) 669 656 % % * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. The Netherlands 188 4 178 4 Europe (excluding the Netherlands) 1,232 27 1,151 27 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year United States and Canada 2,814 61 2,587 61 Asia Paciﬁc 288 6 254 6 in millions of shares (unless otherwise stated) 2019 2018* Rest of World 90 2 89 2 Outstanding ordinary shares at January 1 Note 33 279.7 290.3 Total revenues 4,612 100 4,259 100 Effect of cancellation of shares (2.1) (2.4) * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Effect of repurchased shares (7.3) (11.2) Weighted average number of ordinary shares (B) 270.3 276.7 Basic EPS (€) (A/B) 2.47 2.37 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is determined by dividing the outstanding of 272.2 million (2018: 278.8 million), after profit for the year of €669 million (2018: €656 million) adjustments for treasury shares and for the effects of all attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company, by dilutive potential ordinary shares which consist of LTIP the weighted average number of ordinary shares shares granted. Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year in millions of shares, unless otherwise stated 2019 2018* Weighted average number of ordinary shares (B) 270.3 276.7 Effect of Long-Term Incentive Plan 1.9 2.1 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (C) 272.2 278.8 Diluted EPS (€) (minimum of basic EPS and [A/C]) 2.46 2.35 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. 106 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 107 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 8 – Acquisitions and Divestments Of the goodwill recognized in 2019, €23 million was The following tables provide information in aggregate for deductible for income tax purposes (2018: nil). all business combinations in 2019: Acquisitions Acquisitions Accounting policies acquisition date. For some events (such as earnouts), the group 2019 2018 Business combinations are acquisitions, provisional fair values includes an initial fair value of that Carrying Fair value Recognized Recognized accounted for using the acquisition have been included in the statement adjustment in the cost of the amount adjustments values values* method as at the acquisition date, of financial position. The final transaction at the acquisition date if Consideration payable in cash 33 157 which is the date on which control is valuation of the acquired identifiable the adjustment is probable and can Deferred and contingent considerations at fair value: transferred to the group. intangible assets and liabilities be measured reliably. The initial and Non-current – 12 assumed is still pending, but will be subsequent measurement will Current 6 1 Changes in the group’s interests in a completed within the 12-month usually be based on estimates of Total consideration 39 170 subsidiary that do not result in a loss timeframe. Actual valuation of these future results of the business of control are accounted for as assets, liabilities, and contingent combination. Actual results may equity transactions. liabilities may differ from the differ from those estimates and may Intangible assets Note 18 0 16 16 107 provisional valuation. result in material adjustments in the Other non-current assets 0 0 8 Critical estimates and judgments next financial year(s). Subsequent Current assets 1 1 13 The fair value of the assets, When a business combination changes to the fair value are Current liabilities (1) (1) (16) liabilities, and contingent liabilities agreement provides for a (possible) recognized in profit or loss, based on Non-current liabilities 0 0 (7) of a business combination should be adjustment to the cost of the a periodic reassessment of the transaction, contingent on future contingent consideration. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 0 0 0 (19) measured within 12 months from the Fair value of net identiﬁable assets/(liabilities) 0 16 16 86 General Acquisition spending Goodwill on acquisitions Note 18 23 84 On May 7, 2019, Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) Total acquisition spending, net of cash acquired, in 2019 acquired 100% of the shares of CLM Matrix, a fast-growing was €34 million (2018: €166 million), including deferred Cash effect of acquisitions: provider of contract lifecycle management software, for and contingent consideration payments of €1 million Consideration payable in cash 33 157 $35 million, excluding a deferred and contingent (2018: €12 million). In 2018, the group acquired Firecracker consideration of up to $7 million. CLM Matrix became part Inc., Legisway S.A., eVision Holding B.V., and a few smaller Cash acquired 0 (3) of GRC’s ELM Solutions unit, a market leader in legal acquisitions. Deferred and contingent considerations paid 1 12 spend and matter management software. The acquisition Acquisition spending, net of cash acquired 34 166 enables GRC to offer a more comprehensive suite of Acquisition-related costs amounted to €1 million in 2019 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. solutions to address the growing needs of corporate legal (2018: €4 million). operations. CLM Matrix had 2018 unaudited revenues of $3 million and had five full-time-equivalent employees at The goodwill relating to the 2019 acquisitions represents Contribution of acquisitions acquisition date. The transaction is expected to have an future economic beneﬁts speciﬁc to the group arising immaterial impact on adjusted EPS in the first full year from assets that do not qualify for separate recognition Revenues Adjusted Profit for operating profit the year and to generate a return on investment above our as intangible assets. This includes expected new weighted average cost of capital (8%) within three to five customers who generate revenue streams in the future Totals excluding the impact of 2019 acquisitions 4,609 1,089 669 years. and revenues generated because of new capabilities of Contribution of 2019 acquisitions 3 0 0 the acquired product platforms. Totals for the year 2019 4,612 1,089 669 In addition, smaller acquisitions were completed, with a Pro forma contribution of 2019 acquisitions for the period combined total consideration of €2 million, including January 1, 2019, up to acquisition date (unaudited) 1 0 0 deferred and contingent considerations and combined Pro forma totals for the year 2019 4,613 1,089 669 annualized unaudited revenues of €1 million. The above information does not purport to represent by the acquisitions, management has assumed that the what the actual results would have been had the fair value adjustments that arose on the date of the acquisitions been concluded on January 1, 2019, nor is the acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition information necessarily indicative for future results of had occurred on January 1, 2019. the acquired operations. In determining the contributions 108 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 109 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Deferred and contingent considerations Divestments Divestment-related results on operations, equity-accounted investees, and financial assets The acquisitions completed in 2019 resulted in a maximum achievable undiscounted deferred and contingent General 2019 2018 consideration of €6 million. The fair value of this deferred On May 2, 2019, Wolters Kluwer completed the divestment Divestments of operations: and contingent consideration amounts to €6 million at of its 40% interest in Austrian information solutions Consideration receivable in cash 8 315 acquisition date and at December 31, 2019. provider MANZ’sche Verlagsund Universitäts­ Consideration received as equity-accounted investee Note 21 – 2 buchhandlung GmbH for €17 million in cash. This asset was Deferred divestment consideration receivable (current) Note 26 – 13 For further disclosure on critical estimates and judgments, classified as an investment in equity-accounted investees refer to Note 18 – Goodwill, Acquired Identifiable Intangible at year-end 2018. The transaction had an immaterial Consideration receivable 8 330 Assets, and Other Intangible Assets. impact on adjusted earnings and resulted in a non-taxable divestment-related gain of €7 million. Intangible assets Note 18 11 – For further disclosure on deferred and contingent Other non-current assets 0 0 considerations, refer to Note 30 – Financial Risk On September 4, 2019, Health completed the sale of Current assets (including assets held for sale) 1 234 Management. certain allied health titles to Ascend Learning, LLC for Current liabilities (including liabilities held for sale) 0 (65) $8 million in cash. The titles were part of the Health Non-controlling interests Note 17 – (2) Provisional fair value accounting Learning, Research & Practice (HLRP) business and The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities will included print and digital books in specialties, such as Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 0 0 be revised if new information, obtained within one year dental hygiene and massage therapy. The divestment will Net identiﬁable assets/(liabilities) 12 167 from the acquisition date, about facts and circumstances better align the HLRP content portfolio for growth in the that existed at the acquisition date, causes adjustments to core medicine and nursing segments. The assets Reclassiﬁcation of foreign exchange differences on loss of the above amounts, or for any additional provisions that generated revenues of approximately $5 million in 2019 control, recognized in other comprehensive income 0 – existed at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in (8 months). No employees were transferred to the new Book proﬁt/(loss) on divestments of operations (4) 163 purchase price accounting for 2018 acquisitions resulted owner. Divestment expenses (1) (3) in additional acquired identifiable intangible assets of €7 million. Reference is made to Note 18 – Goodwill, In 2019, net divestment proceeds amounted to €40 million Restructuring of stranded costs following divestments 0 (1) Acquired Identifiable Intangible Assets and Other and included €13 million of deferred proceeds related to Divestment-related results included in other operating income Intangible Assets. the sale of certain Swedish publishing assets in January and (expense) Note 12 (5) 159 2018. Divestments of equity-accounted investees and financial assets: In 2018, the group completed the divestments of ProVation Consideration receivable in cash 19 6 Medical (Health), Corsearch (Governance, Risk & Goodwill allocated Note 18 (5) (1) Compliance), and certain Swedish assets (Legal & Carrying value of financial assets Note 22 0 (2) Regulatory). The group also reduced its equity shareholding from 55% to 45% in Chengdu Medicom, China. Carrying value of equity-accounted investees Note 21 (5) (1) Divestment-related results included in total ﬁnancing results Note 15 9 2 For divestments announced in 2019 and not completed before year-end, refer to Note 9 – Assets/Liabilities Cash effect of divestments: Classified as Held for Sale. Consideration receivable in cash 27 321 Cash included in divested operations 0 (14) Deferred divestment consideration receivable 13 – Receipts from divestments, net of cash disposed 40 307 110 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 111 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 9 – Assets/Liabilities Classified as Held for Sale Assets and liabilities of disposal groups The assets and liabilities of the disposal groups can be specified as follows at December 31: 2019 2018 2019 2018 Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 20 – Non-current assets 12 – Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale (8) – Cash and cash equivalents 3 – Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 12 Other current assets 5 – Non-current liabilities (2) – Investments in equity-accounted investees 5 – Current liabilities (6) – Total net assets classified as held for sale 17 – Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 12 – Accounting policies When the group is committed to a criteria described above are met. The The loss on remeasurement of disposal groups amounts to The revenues, adjusted operating profit, and operating Non-current assets and disposal sale plan involving a loss of control of group then ceases to apply the equity €2 million (2018: nil). Refer also to Note 12 – Other Operating profit of the disposal groups, excluding the loss on groups are classified as held for a subsidiary, all assets and liabilities method in relation to the portion Income and (Expense). remeasurement, can be specified as follows: sale if their carrying amount will be of that subsidiary are classified that is classified as held for sale. Any recovered through a sale transaction as held for sale when the criteria retained portion of an investment in rather than through continuing use. described above are met, regardless equity-accounted investee that has Results of disposal groups This condition is met only when of whether the group will retain a not been classified as held for sale the sale is highly probable and the non-controlling interest in its former continues to be accounted for using 2019 2018 asset or disposal group is available subsidiary after the sale. the equity method. for immediate sale in its present When the group is committed to a Revenues 38 37 condition. Management must be sale plan involving a divestment of an Non-current assets and disposal Adjusted operating profit 9 8 committed to the sale, which should investment in an equity-accounted groups classified as held for sale are Operating profit 9 8 be expected to qualify for recognition investee, or a portion thereof, measured at the lower of the carrying as a completed sale within 12 months the investment, or the portion, is amount and fair value less costs of from the date of classification. classified as held for sale when the disposal. Investments in equity-accounted investees Disposal groups At December 31, 2019, Wolters Kluwer was in negotiation accounted investment held for sale will occur within the to sell its 45% equity shareholding in Chengdu Medicom, next 12 months. General China, and therefore reclassified the equity shareholding 2019 2018 from investments in equity-accounted investees to assets Refer also to Note 21 – Investments in Equity-accounted classified as held for sale. No loss on remeasurement is Investees. Legal & Regulatory – Belgian training business 6 – recognized. It is expected that the sale of the equityLegal & Regulatory – Certain German businesses and assets 6 – Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 12 – On December 19, 2019, Legal & Regulatory announced In addition, Legal & Regulatory is committed to a plan to that it has reached a binding agreement to sell its Belgian sell certain small businesses and assets in Germany. These training business to NCOI Group. In Belgium, Wolters businesses and assets are actively marketed for sale at Kluwer intends to build on its position in professional reasonable sales prices. information solutions, software, and services for the Legal & Regulatory, Tax & Accounting, and Health & Safety (HSE) The sale of the disposal groups classified as held for sale is segments, continuing to serve customers with leading expected to occur within the next 12 months. solutions in these areas. Refer to Note 40 – Events after Balance Sheet Date. 112 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 113 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 10 – Sales Costs Note 11 – General and Administrative Costs 2019 2018 2019 2018* Marketing and promotion costs 234 224 Research, development, and editorial costs 453 416 Sales-related costs – sales commissions directly expensed 141 123 General and administrative operating expenses 877 807 Sales-related costs – amortization of capitalized sales Amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable commissions Note 25 20 24 intangible assets Note 14 182 175 Other sales-related costs 316 295 Total 1,512 1,398 Customer support costs 74 70 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Additions to loss allowances on trade receivables and contract assets Note 25 23 17 Accounting policies general overhead, amortization of impairment of goodwill, acquired Total 808 753 General and administrative costs acquired identifiable intangible identifiable intangible assets, include costs that are neither assets and certain other intangible certain other intangible assets, Accounting policies sale of a book, implementation and/ Further, sales costs include the directly attributable to cost of assets (if not part of cost of property, plant, and equipment, and Sales costs relate to direct internal or training services, and/or the sale additions to loss allowances on trade revenues nor to sales costs. These revenues), depreciation of property, right-of-use assets. personnel expenses and direct of a license being a right to use), receivables and unbilled revenues. costs include product development plant, and equipment, depreciation external costs incurred for marketing the sales commission is expensed The loss allowance is determined cost, information technology cost, of right-of-use assets, and and sales activities. when incurred. In addition, sales as an amount equal to the lifetime commissions, that are commensurate expected credit losses. Sales costs include sales commissions or based on generic performance Amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets directly expensed as incurred and indicators and/or net targets, are Estimates and judgments includes an impairment of €38 million (2018: €9 million). the amortization of capitalized sales expensed when incurred. The group determines the impairment commissions that qualify as cost of financial assets by making to obtain a contract. As a practical For all other commission plans on assumptions and estimating the risk expedient, the group recognizes new sales targets, the amortization of default and expected loss rates at Note 12 – Other Operating Income and (Expense) as an expense the incremental period ranges between one and contract inception over the expected cost of obtaining a contract if the five years, depending on the nature life of the financial instrument, using 2019 2018 amortization period of the asset of the underlying promise in the the group’s historical incurred losses that the group otherwise would have contract with the customer, unless the and existing market conditions, as Divestment-related results Note 8 (5) 159 recognized, is one year or less. If underlying non-cancellable contract well as forward-looking information Acquisition-related costs Note 8 (1) (4) sales commissions are granted for period for the right-to-access license at the end of each reporting period. Loss on remeasurement of disposal groups Note 9 (2) – a bundled and/or multi-elements is longer than five years. In those Fair value changes of contingent considerations Note 30 9 1 contract in which the predominant situations, the longer non-cancellable Additions to acquisition integration provisions Note 32 0 0 consideration element is recognized contract period of the license contract Total 1 156 for performance obligations satisfied prevails as amortization period. at a point in time (for example the Accounting policies (including the loss on related costs, additions to Other operating income and expense remeasurement of disposal groups acquisition integration provisions, relates to items which are different and direct attributable divestment and subsequent fair value changes of in their nature or frequency from costs), additions to provisions for contingent considerations. See also operating items. These include restructuring of stranded costs Note 4 – Benchmark Figures. divestment-related results following divestments, acquisition114 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 115 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 13 – Personnel Expenses Note 15 – Financing Results 2019 2018 2019 2018* Salaries and wages 1,590 1,474 Financing income Social security charges 163 151 Interest income for financial assets, measured at amortized cost: Costs of deﬁned contribution plans 72 61 Interest income on short-term bank deposits 17 12 Expenses related to deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 31 1 21 Other financing income: Equity-settled share-based payment transactions Note 34 25 22 Derivatives – foreign exchange contracts 0 0 Total 1,851 1,729 Other 8 9 Total ﬁnancing income 25 21 Employees Headcount at December 31 18,979 18,553 Financing costs In full-time equivalents at December 31 18,361 18,134 Interest expense for financial liabilities, measured at amortized Thereof employed in the Netherlands 1,172 1,143 cost: In full-time equivalents average per annum* 18,883 18,687 Euro Commercial Paper program and borrowings and bank overdrafts 0 (1) * Average full-time equivalents per annum include temporary help and contractors, whereas headcount and its full-time equivalent only relate to staff on the payroll of the group. Bonds and private placements (56) (69) Amortization of fee expense for debt instruments (2) (2) Other financing expense: Note 14 – Amortization, Impairment, and Depreciation Interest expense for lease liabilities (11) (7) Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) (3) (9) Derivatives – foreign exchange contracts, not qualifying as hedge (1) (1) 2019 2018* Other (8) (7) Amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets Note 18 144 166 Impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets Note 18 38 9 Items in hedge relationships: Amortization of other intangible assets Note 18 180 174 Interest rate swaps (2) (2) Impairment of other intangible assets Note 18 15 21 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) on loans subject to cash ﬂow hedge (5) (10) Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment Note 19 25 25 Net change in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges reclassiﬁed from other Depreciation of right-of-use assets Note 20 72 68 comprehensive income 5 10 Impairment of right-of-use assets Note 20 1 – Total ﬁnancing costs (83) (98) Total 475 463 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Net ﬁnancing results (58) (77) For further disclosure on critical estimates and judgments, Other finance income/(costs) refer to Note 18 – Goodwill, Acquired Identifiable Intangible Divestment-related results on equity-accounted investees Note 8 7 (1) Assets, and Other Intangible Assets. Gain on sale of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 8 2 3 Fair value changes of financial assets Note 22 0 (1) Financing component employee beneﬁts Note 31 (4) (3) Total other ﬁnance income/(costs) 5 (2) Total ﬁnancing results (53) (79) * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. 116 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 117 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 16 – Income Tax Expense resulting in deferred tax assets multinational environment in which significant changes in U.S. tax laws that or liabilities. These calculations the group operates, global transfer took effect on January 1, 2018. During Income tax expense recognized in statement of profit or loss may deviate from the final tax pricing policies are implemented 2018 and 2019, the U.S. government assessments, which will be concluded for transactions between members issued interpretative and legislative 2019 2018* in future periods. of the group. These transactions regulations in final and proposed Current income tax expense 192 221 are documented as required by form to further explain the application Adjustments previous years 6 1 A deferred tax asset is recognized international standards. However, of the new tax laws. A complete for deductible temporary differences local country tax authorities might understanding of the implications Deferred tax expense: and the carry-forward of unused challenge these transactions. The group of the Act continues to take time, as Changes in tax rates (1) (5) tax losses and unused tax credits to considered potential challenges and government guidance will continue Origination and reversal of temporary differences (8) 17 the extent that it is probable that provided for potential uncertain tax to be issued in 2020. Reported Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities Note 23 (9) 12 future taxable profit will be available. positions. The assessment for uncertain income tax amounts will therefore be Total Note 23 189 234 Management assesses the probability tax positions relies on estimates and subject to more judgment, estimation * Restated for IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. that taxable profit will be available assumptions, based on the judgments uncertainty, and measurement against which the unused tax losses of tax professionals within the group, adjustments may need to be made in Accounting policies that the parent can control the Deferred tax assets and liabilities, or unused tax credits can be utilized. supplemented by external tax advisors, subsequent reporting periods. Income tax on the result for the year timing of the reversal of the including those associated with rightand may involve a series of estimates is made up of current and deferred temporary differences, and it is of-use assets and lease liabilities, are In determining the amount of about future events. New information Finally, not all tax authorities have tax. Income tax is recognized in profit probable that they will not reverse offset if there is a legally enforceable current and deferred tax, the group may become available that causes the decided whether they will allow the or loss except to the extent that it in the foreseeable future; and right to offset current income tax considers the impact of uncertain group to change its estimate regarding recently adopted IFRS standards relates to business combinations • Initial recognition of an asset or liabilities and assets, and they relate tax positions and whether additional the adequacy of existing income tax (IFRS 9, IFRS 15, and IFRS 16) in the and/or items directly recognized liability in a transaction, which is to income taxes levied by the same taxes, penalties, and interest may liabilities. Such changes to income tax filing of income tax returns. If the in equity or other comprehensive not a business combination and tax authority on the same taxable be due. The group believes that its liabilities will impact the income tax tax authorities deviate from these income. that, at the time of the transaction, entity, or on different tax entities, but current income tax liabilities are expense, positively or negatively, in the standards, the classification between affects neither accounting profit nor they intend to settle current income adequate for all open tax years statement of profit or loss in the period current income tax assets and Current income tax is the expected taxable profit. tax liabilities and assets on a net based on its assessment of many that such a determination is made. liabilities and deferred tax assets and tax payable or tax receivable on the basis or their tax assets and liabilities factors, including interpretations of liabilities may change. taxable income for the year, using the A deferred tax asset is recognized will be realized simultaneously. tax laws, rules, and prior experience. Changes in tax rates are considered if tax rates and tax laws that have been for deductible temporary differences The group operates in several these tax rate changes are substantially Refer to Note 23 – Tax Assets and enacted or substantively enacted by and for the carry-forward of unused Uncertain tax positions are assessed countries with different tax laws enacted before year-end. The United Liabilities. the end of the reporting period, and tax losses and unused tax credits, at a fiscal unity level. If it is probable and rules. Considering this complex States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act introduced any adjustment to tax payable or to the extent that it is probable that that a tax authority will accept tax receivable in respect of previous future taxable profits will be available an uncertain tax position in the years. If the current income tax shall against which these can be utilized. income tax filing, then the group Reconciliation of the effective tax rate table below reconciles the statutory income tax rate with be settled over more than 12 months Deferred tax assets are reviewed at determines its accounting tax The group’s effective tax rate in the statement of profit or the effective income tax rate in the statement of profit or and the amounts are material, the the end of each reporting period and position consistently with the tax loss differs from the Dutch income tax rate of 25%. The loss: current income tax will be discounted are remeasured to the extent that it treatment used or planned to be used using the risk-free rate belonging to is no longer probable that the related in its income tax filing. If this is not 2019 2018* the corresponding period, and the tax benefits will be realized. probable, then the group reflects the % % jurisdiction. The group recognizes effect of uncertainty in determining Proﬁt before tax 858 890 deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities its accounting tax position using Income tax expense at statutory tax rate in the Netherlands 25.0 214 25.0 223 for all taxable temporary differences are not discounted and measured at either the most likely amount or the Tax effect of: between the carrying amounts of the tax rates that are expected to be expected value method, depending assets or liabilities in the statement applied to the temporary differences on which method better predicts the Rate differential (local income tax rates versus statutory of financial position for financial when they reverse, based on the resolution of the uncertainty. income tax rate in the Netherlands) (2.7) (23) (4.4) (40) reporting purposes and their tax base laws that have been enacted or Tax incentives, exempt income, and divestments (1.9) (16) 1.4 12 for taxation purposes. substantively enacted by the end of Critical estimates and judgments Recognized and unrecognized tax losses 0.4 4 1.0 9 the reporting period. The effect of Income tax is calculated based on Adjustments previous years 0.7 6 0.1 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities changes in tax rates on the deferred income before tax, considering the Changes in income tax rates (0.1) (1) (0.5) (5) are not recognized for temporary tax position is recognized in profit local tax rates and regulations. For Other taxes and U.S. repatriation tax 1.0 9 0.4 4 differences arising from: or loss if, and to the extent that, the each operating entity, the current • Initial recognition of goodwill; deferred tax position was originally income tax expense is calculated and Non-deductible costs and other items (0.4) (4) 3.3 30 • Investments in subsidiaries and formed through profit or loss. differences between the accounting Total 22.0 189 26.3 234 joint arrangements to the extent and tax base are determined, * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. 118 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 119 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Rate differential indicates the effect of the group’s taxable The current year’s effective tax rate was impacted by Non-controlling interests of consolidated participations Financial information of non-controlling interests income being generated and taxed in jurisdictions where favorable tax law changes and finalization of tax audits. in the proﬁt for the year totaled €0 million (2018: combined, based on 100% ownership, is as follows: tax rates differ from the statutory income tax rate in the €0 million). Non-controlling interests in the equity of Netherlands. For income tax recognized directly in the statements of consolidated participations, totaling €0 million (2018: changes in total equity and other comprehensive income, €0 million), are based on third-party shareholdings in the The effective tax rate decreased to 22.0% (2018: 26.3%), reference is made to Note 23 Tax Assets and Liabilities. underlying shareholders’ equity of the subsidiaries. the prior year being impacted by taxable gains on the divestments of Corsearch and ProVation Medical in 2018. 2019 2018 Revenues 5 7 Adjusted operating proﬁt 2 2 Note 17 – Non-controlling Interests Net proﬁt 1 2 Total assets 1 3 The group’s shares in significant consolidated subsidiaries that were not fully owned at December 31 are: Total liabilities 1 1 Total equity 0 2 0wnership in % 2019 2018 Akadémiai Kiadó Kft. (Budapest, Hungary) 74 74 Total cash and cash equivalents 0 0 Accounting policies interest in a subsidiary are allocated and therefore no goodwill is The group’s proportionate share of each line item in the not materially differ from the fully consolidated financial Non-controlling interests reflect the to the non-controlling interest even if recognized for those transactions. financial statements of the non-controlling interests does statements. portion of the profit or loss and net these losses cause the non-controlling Remeasurements of non-controlling assets of a subsidiary attributable to interest to have a debit balance. interests are based on a proportionate equity interests that are not owned, Acquisitions of non-controlling amount of the net assets of the directly or indirectly through interests are accounted for as subsidiary. subsidiaries, by the group. Losses transactions with owners of the applicable to the non-controlling company in their capacity as owners The movements in non-controlling interests are as follows: 2019 2018 Position at January 1 0 4 Dividends paid (1) (2) Loss of control Note 8 – (2) Share of proﬁt in non-controlling interests, net of tax 0 0 Foreign exchange differences and other movements 1 0 Position at December 31 0 0 120 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 121 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 18 – Goodwill, Acquired Identifiable Intangible Assets, Accounting policies Goodwill demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the software project so that Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, at June 30. and Other Intangible Assets The group measures goodwill at the it will be available for use or sale, the acquisition date as the sum of the fair intention to complete the development Critical estimates and judgments value of the consideration transferred project, the ability to sell or use the Measurement (including deferred and contingent end-product, demonstration of how Upon acquisition, the values of Goodwill Acquired Other 2019 2018 identifiable intangible consideration) and the recognized the end-product will yield probable intangible assets acquired are intangible assets amount of any non-controlling future economic benefits, the estimated, applying one of the assets interests in the acquiree, less the net availability of adequate technical methodologies below: Position at January 1 recognized fair value amount of the financial other resources to complete • Relief from royalty approach: this Purchase value 3,954 2,437 1,714 8,105 7,955 identifiable assets acquired and the project, and the ability to reliably approach assumes that if the Accumulated amortization liabilities assumed. Any contingent measure the expenditure attributable identifiable intangible asset was not (9) (1,163) (1,148) (2,320) (2,374) consideration payable (such as to the project. owned, it would be acquired through and impairments earnout arrangements) is recognized a royalty agreement. The value of Book value at January 1 3,945 1,274 566 5,785 5,581 at fair value at the acquisition date. Capitalization of software depends on owning the asset equals the benefits several assumptions. While management from not having to pay royalty fees; Movements Costs related to acquisitions which the has procedures in place to control the • Multi-period excess earnings method: Investments – – 198 198 198 group incurs in a business combination software development process, there is under this approach, cash flows Acquired through business are expensed as incurred. uncertainty regarding the outcome of the associated with the specific acquired Note 8 23 16 – 39 191 development process (timing of identifiable intangible assets are combinations If a subsidiary or a business operation technological developments, determined. Contributory charges of Divestments of operations Note 8 (11) – – (11) – is divested, the goodwill associated technological obsolescence, and other assets that are being used to Disposals of assets (5) – (2) (7) (1) with the divested operations is competitive pressures). generate the cash flows are deducted Net expenditures 7 16 196 219 388 allocated and measured on the basis from these cash flows. The net cash of the relative value of the divested Useful lives of assets flows are discounted to arrive at the Amortization – (144) (180) (324) (340) operation and the portion of the cash The useful lives of assets are value of the asset; or generating unit (CGU) retained. estimated in line with common market • Cost method: the cost method Impairment – (38) (15) (53) (30) practice. The group reviews the reflects the accumulated cost that Reclassiﬁcations (5) 7 – 2 30 Acquired identifiable intangible assets remaining useful lives of its assets would currently be required to Assets classified as held for Identifiable intangible assets acquired annually. If the expected useful lives replace the asset. sale Note 9 (13) – (1) (14) – through business combinations mainly of assets are different from previous Foreign exchange differences consist of customer relationships estimates, the amortization period These valuations are usually and other movements 56 15 8 79 156 (subscriber accounts), technology shall be changed accordingly which performed by the management of the 45 (144) 8 (91) 204 (data bases, software, and product will impact the amortization in profit acquiring division in close cooperation Total movements technology), trade marks, and titles. or loss prospectively. with an external consulting firm. These calculations require estimates like Position at December 31 Acquired identifiable intangible assets Apart from goodwill (which has an future cash flows, royalty rates, Purchase value 3,999 2,373 1,851 8,223 8,105 are stated at cost, less accumulated indefinite useful life), intangible assets discount rates, useful life, churn rate, Accumulated amortization amortization and any impairment, and are amortized on a straight-line basis and rate of return. The methodologies and impairments (9) (1,243) (1,277) (2,529) (2,320) are amortized over their estimated over their estimated useful lives from applied in this respect are in line with 3,990 1,130 574 5,694 5,785 useful economic life by applying the the day they are available for use. The common market practice. Book value at December 31 straight-line method. The useful life of estimated useful lives are as follows: the acquired identifiable intangible • Acquired identifiable intangible Impairment test Investments in other intangible assets include an amount related deferred tax liabilities from the final outcome of the assets is finite, reflecting management’s assets, based on nature of the The impairment test requires of €182 million (2018: €151 million) relating to product purchase price allocation of prior year acquisitions. assessment of the life of the assets, underlying asset: 5-30 years; and estimates of a discount rate, future development. usually supported by external valuation • Other intangible assets: 3-5 years. cash flows, and a perpetual growth The reclassification in 2018 of €30 million was related to experts, and considering the impact of rate. These estimates are made by The reclassifications in 2019 include the additionally self-developed software, reclassified from inventories. technological change and changes in the Impairment management that manages the recognized acquired identifiable intangible assets and marketplace. At the end of each reporting period, it business with which the goodwill is is assessed whether there is an associated. The future cash flows Other intangible assets indication that an intangible asset cover a five-year period and are based Other intangible assets mainly relate may be impaired. If any such indication on Vision and Strategy Plans (VSP), to purchased and self-developed exists, then the group estimates the prepared by management and information systems and software. recoverable amount of the asset. If the approved by the Executive Board. recoverable amount is below the Software development costs are carrying value, the asset is impaired. capitalized if the group can 122 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 123 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Carrying amounts of goodwill and acquired identifiable intangible assets per operating segment In determining the WACC, the group used a risk-free rate risk premiums and country-specific inflation based on the long-term yield on Dutch government differentials. In determining the WACC, the group Goodwill Acquired 2019 2018 bonds with a maturity of 20 years, adjusted for country applied the following assumptions: identifiable intangible assets 2019 2018 Health 1,068 302 1,370 1,424 Tax & Accounting 1,342 257 1,599 1,622 Risk free rate United States (in %) 2.5 3.0 Governance, Risk & Compliance 886 300 1,186 1,164 Risk free rate Europe (in %) 0.6 1.0 Legal & Regulatory 694 271 965 1,009 Market risk premium (in %) 6.0 6.5 Total 3,990 1,130 5,120 5,219 Tax rate (in %) 25.0 25.0 Re-levered beta 0.72 0.97 Impairment testing of goodwill Key assumptions The group performs an annual impairment test by The group’s key assumptions include assumptions that Sensitivity analysis comparing the carrying amount of the CGU to which the are based on non-observable market data (level 3 input). The impairment testing includes an assessment if a reasonably possible change in one of the key assumptions goodwill belongs, net of related deferred taxes, to the The period over which the group estimates its cash flow reasonably possible change in a key assumption would would cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the CGU. The groups of CGUs for projections is five years. After five years, cash flow cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount. goodwill impairment testing represent the lowest level projections are extrapolated using an appropriate recoverable amount. The outcome of the sensitivity at which goodwill is monitored by management, whereby perpetual growth rate that is consistent with the analysis in the annual impairment test was that no The goodwill impairment sensitivity per CGU is as follows: management considers the integration of the group’s long-term average market growth rate. The 2019 business operations and the global leverage of assets, weighted long-term average growth rate is 2.5% for the capital, and staff. Acquisitions are integrated into United States and 0.3% for Europe (2018: 2.0% for the Allowed change (in basis points) Allocated existing business operations and the goodwill arising United States and 1.0% for Europe). In addition, the goodwill at Applied Decline Increase Decrease December 31, from a business combination is allocated to the groups following key assumptions were used in the projections: revenue in growth in discount in adjusted 2019 growth rate rate operating of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies • Revenue growth: based on actual experience, an profit margin of the acquisition. The total number of groups of CGUs analysis of market growth and the expected Health Learning, Research & Practice 1.5% >300 >300 >300 539 for goodwill impairment testing purposes was six in 2019 development of market share; and Clinical Solutions 2.6% >300 >300 >300 529 (2018: six CGUs). • Adjusted operating profit margin development: based on actual experience and management’s long-term Tax & Accounting Americas and Asia Paciﬁc 2.2% >300 >300 >300 927 The recoverable amount is determined based on the projections. Adjusted operating profit is deemed to be Tax & Accounting Europe 0.3% >300 >300 >300 415 higher of the value-in-use and the fair value less costs of the best approximation for estimating future cash Governance, Risk & Compliance 2.4% >300 >300 >300 886 disposal. If there is sufficient headroom, the group only flows. Legal & Regulatory 1.4% >300 >300 >300 694 determines the value-in-use. The recoverable amount is Total 2.1% 3,990 determined by discounting the future cash flows to be The estimated pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their generated from the continuing use of the CGUs. These present value using a pre-tax weighted average cost of Allowed change (in basis points) Allocated valuations are based on non-observable market data. capital (WACC) between 6.2% and 16.7% (2018: between goodwill at The recoverable amount calculations in 2019 were 8.5% and 15.7%), with a weighted average of 8.2% Applied Decline Increase Decrease December 31, revenue in growth in discount in adjusted determined in a consistent manner with prior years. The (2018: 10.6%). 2018 growth rate rate operating cash flow projections are based on actual operating profit margin results and the long-term VSPs, as approved by the Health Learning, Research & Practice 1.6% >300 >300 >300 539 Executive Board. Clinical Solutions 2.0% >300 >300 >300 519 Tax & Accounting Americas and Asia Paciﬁc 2.0% >300 >300 >300 913 The 2019 annual impairment test showed that the Tax & Accounting Europe 1.0% >300 >300 >300 411 recoverable amount for all groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment testing exceeded their carrying amounts, so Governance, Risk & Compliance 2.0% >300 >300 >300 848 no impairment for goodwill was recognized. Legal & Regulatory 1.4% >300 >300 >300 715 Total 1.8% 3,945 124 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 125 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Impairment testing of acquired identifiable intangible Note 19 – Property, Plant, and Equipment assets and other intangible assets The following impairments were recognized on the Land and Other fixed 2019 2018* acquired identifiable intangible assets and other buildings assets intangible assets: Position at January 1 Purchase value 82 405 487 490 2019 2018 Accumulated depreciation and impairments (55) (343) (398) (394) Acquired identifiable intangible assets CGU Health Patient Engagement Book value at January 1 27 62 89 96 Solutions 36 – Other intangible assets CGU Health Patient Engagement Solutions 1 – Movements Acquired identifiable intangible assets CGU Tax & Accounting Brazil 2 9 Investments 2 29 31 25 Other intangible assets CGU Tax & Accounting Brazil 2 7 Acquired through business combinations Note 8 – – – 2 Other intangible assets Other CGUs 12 14 Divestments of operations Note 8 – – – 0 Total 53 30 Disposals of assets 0 (1) (1) (9) Net expenditures 2 28 30 18 Following a more conservative revenue outlook for the amount of the business operation (€50 million) was based group’s patient engagement solution, as a result of on value-in-use estimates using a discount rate of 7% Depreciation (2) (23) (25) (25) weakening customer demand, an impairment calculation (2018: 9%), whereby the estimates are especially sensitive Assets classified as held for sale Note 9 – 0 0 – was performed on the assets of the associated business to new sales and renewals. In addition, after the Foreign exchange differences and other operation (CGU) within the Health division. This review recognition of the impairment, the amortization of the movements (1) 2 1 0 resulted in an impairment of €36 million on the acquired acquired identifiable intangible assets has been adjusted Total movements (1) 7 6 (7) identifiable intangible assets, €1 million on other for future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying intangible assets, and €1 million on the right-of-use amount on a systematic basis over its shorter remaining assets (refer to Note 20 – Leasing). The recoverable useful life. Position at December 31 Purchase value 83 402 485 487 Accumulated depreciation and impairments (57) (333) (390) (398) Book value at December 31 26 69 95 89 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing Accounting policies Property, plant, and equipment, Depreciation is recognized in the The estimated useful life for buildings consisting of land, buildings, and statement of profit or loss on a is 20 to 40 years, and for other assets other assets such as office equipment straight-line basis over the estimated three to ten years. and vehicles, are valued at cost less useful life of each part of an item of accumulated depreciation and any property, plant, and equipment. Land impairment. is not depreciated. In 2018, the group entered into a sale and lease back transaction for property in the United Kingdom. This transaction resulted in a net book gain of €5 million and a cash inflow of €12 million. 126 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 127 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 20 – Leasing The restatement of property, plant, and equipment The restatement of other receivables includes the includes a reclassification from trade and other payables, reversal of prepaid rent, which is incorporated in the regarding accrued leasehold improvement compensation lease liability under IFRS 16. Summarized impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 on the The group has decided to transition to this new standard received from landlords of real estate. financial statements based on the full retrospective approach. This means that The restatement of trade and other payables includes the IFRS 16 is the new standard on lease accounting and a restated statement of financial position at January 1, The restatement of financial assets relates to the reversal of accrued rent, incorporated in the lease results in almost all operating leases being recognized in 2018, is prepared and the comparatives in the 2019 recognition of finance lease receivables, regarding some liability under IFRS 16, and a reclassification to property, the statement of financial position, as the distinction financial statements are restated. real estate leases that are (partly) subleased. plant, and equipment. between operating and finance leases is no longer applicable to lessees. IFRS 16 results in presentation The group elected to apply the practical expedients to changes in the statement of profit or loss, the statement exclude all short-term leases and all leases for which the Changes in the Statement of Profit or Loss of financial position, and the statement of cash flows. underlying asset is of low value, and not to apply IFRS 16 to leases of intangible assets (such as software). For the 2018 reported IFRS 16 2018 restated Under the new standard, which became effective on group’s IT equipment and car leases, the group elected to Revenues 4,260 (1) 4,259 January 1, 2019, an asset (the right to use the leased item) apply the practical expedient to not separate non-lease Cost of revenues 1,297 – 1,297 and a financial liability (a liability for discounted future components from lease components, and instead to Gross profit 2,963 (1) 2,962 lease installments) are recognized in the statement of account for these components as a single lease financial position. In addition, the rent expense is component. replaced by depreciation of the right-of-use asset and Sales costs 753 – 753 interest expense on the lease liability. As a result of IFRS The following tables present the financial statement line General and administrative costs 1,405 (7) 1,398 16, the adjusted operating profit improved and net debt items impacted by IFRS 16. Total operating expenses 2,158 (7) 2,151 increased. Other operating income and (expense) 156 – 156 Changes in the Statement of Financial Position Operating profit 961 6 967 impacted accounts only January 1, IFRS 16 January 1, December IFRS 16 December 2018* 2018, 31, 2018* 31, 2018, Financing results (72) (7) (79) restated restated Share of profit of equity-accounted investees, net of tax 2 – 2 Non-current assets Profit before tax 891 (1) 890 Property, plant, and equipment 101 (5) 96 94 (5) 89 Right-of-use assets – 220 220 – 231 231 Income tax expense (234) 0 (234) Financial assets 19 2 21 40 2 42 Profit for the year 657 (1) 656 Deferred tax assets 93 1 94 106 1 107 Attributable to: Owners of the company 657 (1) 656 Current assets Non-controlling interests 0 0 0 Other receivables 212 (6) 206 247 (4) 243 Profit for the year 657 (1) 656 Current liabilities Earnings per share (EPS) (€) Trade and other payables 881 (15) 866 907 (14) 893 Basic EPS 2.37 0.00 2.37 Short-term lease liabilities – 73 73 – 67 67 Diluted EPS 2.35 0.00 2.35 Non-current liabilities Lease liabilities – 169 169 – 188 188 The restatement of revenues primarily relates to income general and administrative costs is further due to the Deferred tax liabilities 304 (3) 301 359 (3) 356 from the sublease of real estate leases, which are under financing component of leases being reclassified to the IFRS 16 recognized as a reduction to the right-of-use asset financing results. Equity (reducing the associated deprecation). The decrease in Equity attributable to the owners of the company 2,269 (12) 2,257 2,267 (13) 2,254 * Restated for IFRIC 23 and certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. 128 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 129 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Changes in the Statement of Cash Flows Movement schedule of right-of-use assets 2018 reported IFRS 16 2018 restated Real estate Other leases 2019 2018 Net cash from operating activities 934 67 1,001 Position at January 1 Net cash used in financing activities (1,432) (67) (1,499) Purchase value 487 80 567 509 Accumulated depreciation and impairments (289) (47) (336) (289) Book value at January 1 198 33 231 220 The adoption of IFRS 16 impacted the presentation of the activities. The payment of the lease interest component is statement of cash flows, since the repayment of the included in interest paid under the heading cash flows principal is presented as a cash flow from financing from operating activities. Movements Additions from new leases 103 25 128 30 Additions from sale and leaseback Note 19 – – – 2 Accounting policies Acquired through business combinations Note 8 – – – 6 The group leases primarily real estate any reasonably certain optional lease other lease contracts. These terms are Contract modifications and reassessments of and, to a lesser extent, IT equipment periods. Low-value leases comprise used to maximize operational options 52 0 52 37 and cars. The fixed rental periods small items of office furniture and IT flexibility in terms of managing mostly vary from one year to 15 years equipment. The total expenses arising contracts. Most contract-specific but may have renewal and/or from short-term leases and low-value renewal and termination options held Depreciation (53) (19) (72) (68) termination options. For real estate leases are insignificant. are exercisable only by the group and Impairment Note 18 (1) 0 (1) – and IT equipment, lease terms are not by the respective lessor. Assets classified as held for sale Note 9 – 0 0 – negotiated on an individual basis and The group is to a very limited extent a Foreign exchange differences and other contain a wide range of different lessor. In determining the lease term, the movements 3 0 3 4 terms and conditions. group considers all facts and Total movements 104 6 110 11 Estimates and judgments circumstances that create an Leases are recognized as a right-ofIFRS 16 requires management to use economic incentive to use the optional Position at December 31 use asset and a corresponding liability estimates for setting the discount rate lease period. Optional lease periods at the same date at which the leased and to apply judgment in the are only included in the lease term if it Purchase value 599 74 673 567 asset is available for use by the group. assessment of renewal and is reasonably certain that the optional Accumulated depreciation and impairments (297) (35) (332) (336) The right-of-use asset is depreciated termination options (i.e. optional lease period is used. The assessment Book value at December 31 302 39 341 231 over the shorter of the asset’s useful lease periods) in the real estate lease is reviewed if a significant event or a life and the lease term, on a straightcontracts. significant change in circumstances line basis. The lease liability is occur which affect this assessment In 2019, the additions from new leases include a new real discounted based on the incremental Discount rate and that are within the control of the estate lease in New York City, NY, for an amount of borrowing rate, because the rate The discount rate applied is based on group. €86 million. implicit in the lease cannot readily be the incremental borrowing rate for the determined. The finance cost is respective leases considering the Real estate leases that are annually Contractual maturities of lease liabilities charged to profit or loss over the lease primary economic environment of the renewed or that have an indefinite period in order to produce a constant lease, the currency, the credit risk contract term are on average leased 2019 2018 periodic rate of interest on the premium, the lease term, and the for five years. Optional periods arising Within one year 76 69 remaining balance of the liability for nature of the leased asset. from renewal options of other real Between one and two years 65 54 each period. estate leases are mostly not Between two and three years 55 41 At December 31, 2019, the weighted considered to be reasonably certain, Between three and four years 46 34 Payments associated with short-term average discount rate is 3.2% (2018: since the rent is often reset at the leases and low-value leases are 3.1%). market price at renewal option date. Between four and five years 37 27 recognized on a straight-line basis as Optional periods after termination Between five and ten years 107 63 an expense in profit or loss. ShortRenewal and termination options option dates are often considered in Ten years and more 35 – term leases are leases with a lease Renewal and termination options are the lease term, due to termination Effect of discounting (53) (33) term of 12 months or less, considering included in several real estate and penalties included in the contract. Total lease liabilities at December 31 Note 29 368 255 130 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 131 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Cash outflow for leases The movement in equity-accounted investees is as follows: 2019 2018 Interest portion of lease payments 11 7 2019 2018 Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities 69 67 Position at January 1 15 11 Total 80 74 Change in control Note 17 – 2 Divestments Note 8 (5) (1) Other disclosures right-of-use asset will be recognized for these leases at the Transfer to assets classified as held for sale Note 9 (5) – At December 31, 2019, the future undiscounted cash lease commencement date. Dividends received 0 (1) outflow arising from leases not yet commenced and to Share of proﬁt in equity-accounted investees, net of tax 3 2 which the group is committed, amounts to €22 million The group’s lease agreements do not impact any Foreign exchange differences and other movements 0 2 (2018: €117 million). A lease liability and corresponding covenants. Position at December 31 8 15 At December 31, 2019, the equity shareholding in Chengdu Chengdu Medicom Medical Information System Co., Ltd in Note 21 – Investments in Equity-accounted Investees Medicom is classified as an asset held for sale. Refer to 2018 resulted in a loss of control. Note 9 – Assets/Liabilities Classified as Held for Sale. For the equity-accounted investees, the financial The group’s shares in equity-accounted investees at In 2019, the group sold its 40% equity shareholding in information (at 100%) and the group’s weighted December 31, are: MANZ’sche Verlagsund Universitätsbuchhandlung GmbH, proportionate share is as follows: refer also to Note 8 – Acquisitions and Divestments. ownership in % 2019 2018 Furthermore, the sale of a 10% equity shareholding in Logical Images Inc. (Rochester, NY, United States) 40 39 HaoYisheng (Beijing, China) 22 22 Total equity-accounted investees Group’s share Chengdu Medicom Medical Information System Co., Ltd. 2019 2018 2019 2018 (Chengdu, China) Note 9 45 45 Total assets 46 57 15 20 Manz’schen Verlagsund Universitätsbuchhandlung GmbH (Wien, Austria) Note 8 – 40 Total liabilities 35 44 10 14 Total equity 11 13 5 6 Accounting policies Revenues 45 75 15 27 Interests in equity-accounted The carrying value of the group’s acquisition date. Any resulting gain or Net proﬁt for the year 9 7 4 2 investees (associates) are accounted investments in associates includes loss compared to the carrying amount for using the equity method of goodwill identified upon acquisition, is recognized in profit or loss. Any accounting and are initially recognized net of any accumulated impairment. amount that has previously been at cost, which includes transaction recognized in other comprehensive costs. Associates are recognized from When an interest in an associate is income, and that would be reclassified the date the group has significant increased to a controlling interest, the to profit or loss following a influence, and recognition ceases the equity interest previously held is divestment, is similarly reclassified to date the group has no significant treated as if it were disposed of and profit or loss. influence over the equity investment. reacquired at fair value on the 132 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 133 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 22 – Financial Assets Movements in temporary differences and other movements, 2019 2019 2018* Transfer to Recognized in Recognized in Foreign exchange Balance at Balance at Derivative financial instruments Note 29 16 21 Acquisitions/ liabilities equity and other differences and statement Other receivables 22 19 classified as held comprehensive December 31, January 1, 2019 of profit or loss Finance lease receivables 1 2 divestments for sale (Note 16) income other movements 2019 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0 0 Intangible assets (440) (2) – 33 – (5) (414) Total 39 42 PPE and right-of-use * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. assets 2 – – 4 – 0 6 Employee beneﬁts 32 – 0 (4) (2) 0 26 Other receivables predominantly relate to long-term The exposure to credit risk of the financial assets is Interest carry-forwards 2 – – (1) – 0 1 advance payments. considered immaterial. Refer to Note 30 – Financial Risk Tax value of loss carryManagement. forwards recognized 51 – – 4 – 0 55 Other items 104 – – (27) 2 1 80 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Total (249) (2) 0 9 0 (4) (246) 2019 2018 Position at January 1 0 3 Divestments Note 8 0 (2) Movements in temporary differences and other movements, 2018 Revaluation gain/(loss) on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 0 (1) Recognized in Foreign exchange Balance at Recognized in Foreign exchange differences and other movements 0 0 Balance at Acquisitions/ equity and other differences and statement Position at December 31 0 0 comprehensive December 31, January 1, 2018* of profit or loss divestments (Note 16) income other movements 2018 Note 23 – Tax Assets and Liabilities Intangible assets (427) (24) 19 – (8) (440) PPE and right-of-use assets (5) – 7 – 0 2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Employee beneﬁts 54 – (20) (4) 2 32 Interest carry-forwards 11 – (9) – 0 2 Assets Liabilities 2019 2018 * Tax value of loss carryIntangible assets 5 (419) (414) (440) forwards recognized 49 5 (4) – 1 51 Property, plant, and equipment and right-of-use assets 6 0 6 2 Other items 111 – (5) 0 (2) 104 Employee beneﬁts 30 (4) 26 32 Total (207) (19) (12) (4) (7) (249) Interest carry-forward 1 – 1 2 * Restated for IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognized 55 – 55 51 Other items 95 (15) 80 104 Subtotal 192 (438) (246) (249) Setoff of tax (90) 90 0 0 Position at December 31 102 (348) (246) (249) * Restated for IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. The actual recognition of deferred tax assets depends on Other items mainly include recognition of deferred tax the generation of future taxable income during the assets and liabilities for temporary differences on periods in which the temporary differences become working capital items. deductible. Based on projected future taxable income and available strategies, the group considers the future realization of these deferred tax assets as being probable. 134 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 135 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Movements in overall tax position Deferred tax on items recognized immediately in other comprehensive income and equity 2019 2018* 2019 2018* Position at January 1 Amount Tax Amount Amount Tax Amount before tax net of tax before tax net of tax Current income tax assets 24 9 Exchange differences on translation of foreign Current income tax liabilities (165) (127) operations and net investment hedges 63 2 65 123 0 123 Deferred tax assets 107 94 Gains/(losses) on cash ﬂow hedges (9) – (9) 13 – 13 Deferred tax liabilities* (356) (301) Remeasurement gains/(losses) on deﬁned Overall tax position (390) (325) beneﬁt plans 8 (2) 6 12 (4) 8 In other comprehensive income 62 0 62 148 (4) 144 Movements Income tax expense Note 16 (189) (234) Share-based payments 25 – 25 22 – 22 Deferred tax from acquisitions and divestments Note 8 and 18 (2) (19) In equity 25 – 25 22 0 22 Current income tax from acquisitions and divestments 0 (2) * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Deferred tax on items recognized directly in other comprehensive income 0 (4) The total income tax recognized in the statement of other Paid income tax 195 206 comprehensive income is impacted by changes in income Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 0 (5) tax rates for €0 million (2018: €0 million). Foreign exchange differences and other movements (1) (7) Total movements 3 (65) Note 24 – Inventories Position at December 31 Current income tax assets 22 24 2019 2018 Current income tax liabilities (163) (165) Work in progress 19 15 Deferred tax assets 102 107 Finished products and trade goods 54 56 Deferred tax liabilities (348) (356) Total 73 71 Overall tax position (387) (390) * Restated for IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23. See Note 20 – Leasing and Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Accounting policies Inventories are valued at the lower selling price in the ordinary course of products. The cost of internally The current income tax liabilities include, to a large unused tax losses and temporary differences, 10% (2018: of cost and net realizable value. The business less the estimated cost of produced goods includes the extent, uncertain tax positions, of which most of the 9%) expire within the next five years, 12% (2018: 10%) cost of inventories includes all costs completion and the estimated cost developing, manufacturing, content, liabilities are expected to be settled beyond one year. For expire after five years, and 78% (2018: 81%) carry forward of purchase and other costs incurred necessary to complete the sale. and publishing costs. Trade goods the critical estimates and judgments applied to uncertain indeﬁnitely. in bringing the inventories to their purchased from third parties are tax positions, refer to Note 16 – Income Tax Expense. present location and condition. Net Inventories also include internally valued at the purchase price. The amount of deferred tax assets arising from realizable value is the estimated developed commercial software Unrecognized tax losses and temporary differences recognized income tax loss carry-forwards, which relate The group has not recognized deferred tax assets that to tax jurisdictions where the group continued to incur relate to unused tax losses and temporary differences tax losses in the current and/or preceding year, was At December 31, 2019, the provision for obsolescence the provision for obsolescence (2018: €3 million) and is amounting to €268 million (2018: €249 million), as it is not €36 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: €32 million). It is deducted from the inventory carrying values amounted to presented as part of cost of revenues in the statement of probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available considered probable based on forecasts that future €19 million (2018: €18 million). In 2019, an amount of proﬁt or loss. against which the group can use the beneﬁts. Of these taxable profits will be available. €3 million was recognized as an expense for the change in 136 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 137 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 25 – Contract Assets and Liabilities General Loss allowance on trade receivables and contract assets In general, the group applies payment terms in line with Trade receivables and contract assets are shown net of common industry practice. There are no contracts with a impairment losses amounting to €72 million (2018: 2019 2018 material financing component. There are contracts with €64 million). The fair value of the receivables Trade receivables 1,087 1,022 variable consideration, but the related estimates are approximates the carrying amount. Impairment losses on Non-current contract assets 20 19 almost never constrained. In a few contracts, the group trade receivables and contracts assets are presented as Current contract assets 137 113 acts as an agent. part of sales costs in the statement of profit or loss. Most of the goods and/or services require prepayment of In 2019, the movements in the loss allowance on trade Deferred income 1,679 1,592 the consideration. However, the group also has contracts receivables and contract assets are as follows: Other contract liabilities 39 45 with customers where invoicing occurs after delivery of the goods and/or services. Accounting policies group’s right to consideration is measured, presented, and disclosed Contract assets and contract unconditional except for the passage in accordance with IFRS 9. Loss allowance liabilities of time. The group recognizes the following Deferred income 2019 2018 contract-related assets: unbilled Cost to obtain a contract Deferred income is presented in the revenues, cost to obtain a contract, Incremental cost for obtaining a statement of financial position when a Position at January 1 64 67 cost to fulfil a contract, and right-tocontract (primarily sales customer has paid an amount of Additions to loss allowances Note 10 23 17 return assets. The group identifies commissions) will be capitalized and consideration prior to the group Usage of loss allowances (16) (20) the following contract-related amortized if the contract term is performing. It represents the part of Transfer to assets classified as held for sale Note 9 0 – liabilities: deferred income and the expected to be 12 months or longer. the amount invoiced to customers that Foreign exchange differences and other movements 1 0 provisions for returns, refunds, and/ The amortization period will usually has not yet met the criteria for Position at December 31 72 64 or volume discounts. be one, three, or five years, or the revenue recognition and thus still underlying contract life if longer, must be earned as revenue by means In general, when either party to a subject to the nature of the of the delivery of goods and/or For further information on credit risk, refer to customer contract has performed, the underlying performance obligations. services in the future. Deferred income Note 30 – Financial Risk Management. group recognizes unbilled revenues or Applying the practical expedient of is recognized at its nominal value. deferred income, depending on the IFRS 15, the group recognizes any Contract assets (current and non-current) relationship between the group’s incremental cost as an expense Provisions for returns, refunds, and performance and the timing of the when incurred, if the amortization other liabilities Unbilled Cost to Cost to 2019 2018* customers’ payment. period is one year or less. The group recognizes a contract revenues obtain a fulfil a liability if the group receives contract contract Where the group has performed by Cost to fulfil a contract consideration from a customer and Position at January 1 81 34 17 132 130 transferring a good and/or service to If the group incurs cost to fulfil a expects to refund some or all that Acquired through business the customer and the customer has revenue contract with a customer consideration to the customer. The combinations Note 8 0 0 – 0 3 not yet paid the related (e.g. costs that are explicitly contract liability is measured as the Transfer to assets classified as held consideration, unbilled revenues or a chargeable to the customer under amount of the consideration for for sale Note 9 0 0 – 0 – receivable is presented in the the contract, set-up cost, or which the group does not expect to Recognized as revenues in the year 495 495 459 statement of financial position, pre-contract costs) an asset is be entitled to. Newly recognized cost to fulfil a depending on the nature of the recognized if these costs directly contract 322 322 354 group’s right to consideration. relate to a contract, generate or Critical estimates and judgments enhance resources that will be used The assessment of the nature of Transferred to trade receivables (471) (321) (792) (819) For contracts whereby neither party in satisfying performance sales commission plans for meeting Newly recognized cost to obtain a has performed, trade receivables obligations in the future, and are the capitalization criteria requires contract 21 21 26 and deferred income balances are expected to be recovered. The judgment. The applicable Amortization of capitalized sales presented on a net basis. amortization of set-up and preamortization period of the commissions Note 10 (20) (20) (24) contract costs is recognized as an incremental cost to obtain a contract Foreign exchange differences and A contract asset is recognized when expense over the term of the is estimated by the group, by other movements (1) 0 0 (1) 3 the group’s right to consideration is associated contract. matching the useful life of the Position at December 31 104 35 18 157 132 conditional on something other than capitalized sales commissions with * 2018 comparative figures were adjusted due to separate disclosure of ‘Newly recognized cost to fulfil a contract’. the passage of time, for example Impairment the expected benefits of the future performance of the entity. A Any impairment of assets relating to underlying contract. receivable is recognized when the contracts with customers is The group did not recognize an impairment loss on the unbilled revenues during the year (2018: nil). 138 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 139 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Deferred income Note 26 – Other Receivables 2019 2018* 2019 2018* Position at January 1 1,592 1,486 Prepaid royalties 54 55 Acquired through business combinations Note 8 1 7 Other prepayments 137 140 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale Note 9 (2) – Miscellaneous receivables 40 35 New and existing contracts with customers 3,383 3,153 Deferred divestment consideration receivable Note 8 – 13 Recognized as revenues from opening balance (1,459) (1,395) Derivative financial instruments Note 29 2 0 Recognized as revenues in the year on new and existing contracts (1,846) (1,691) Total 233 243 Foreign exchange differences and other movements 10 32 Position at December 31 1,679 1,592 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. * 2018 comparative figures were adjusted as both ‘Recognized as revenues in the year on new and existing contracts’ and ‘New and existing contracts with customers’ were understated by €145 million. Note 27 – Cash and Cash Equivalents No material amount of revenues was recognized in 2019 €2,836 million), of which €1,679 million (2018: from performance obligations satisfied or partially €1,592 million) was included in deferred income. Most of 2019 2018 satisfied in previous years, because of events such as the deferred income will be satisfied in the following year Deposits 293 10 changes in transaction price. Furthermore, we did not as the performance obligations are part of contracts that Cash and bank balances 606 773 have material changes in deferred income because of have an original duration of less than one year. The Total cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial changes in our estimates or because of contract remainder of the unfulfilled performance obligations, not position Note 29 899 783 modifications. recognized in deferred income, relates to multi-year Minus: Bank overdrafts used for cash management purposes Note 29 (468) (604) contracts agreed with customers, whereby we expect to Total cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 431 179 The aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated satisfy these performance obligations between one and to the remaining performance obligations that are five years. Plus: Cash included in assets held for sale Note 9 3 – unsatisfied at year-end 2019 was €3,179 million (2018: Total cash and cash equivalents including cash included in assets held for sale in the statement of cash flows 434 179 Other contract liabilities Accounting policies 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents comprise and are shown within borrowings liabilities within these netting Position at January 1 45 43 cash balances and call deposits. and bank overdrafts in current arrangements on a gross basis. Additions to provision for returns, refunds, and other 169 159 Bank overdrafts predominantly liabilities. The group discloses the Usage of provision for returns, refunds, and other (173) (154) result from cash pool arrangements financial assets and financial Foreign exchange differences and other movements (2) (3) Position at December 31 39 45 An amount of €0 million (2018: €0 million) relates to cash All deposits are on demand deposits that are readily and cash equivalent balances of entities that the group convertible into cash. Bank balances include an amount does not fully own (see Note 17 Non-controlling of approximately €26 million (2018: €24 million) of Interests). restricted cash, primarily due to local exchange control regulations that provide for restrictions on exporting cash and/or capital from the relevant country. 140 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 141 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 28 – Trade and Other Payables Reconciliation long-term debt to net debt 2019 2018* 2019 2018* Total long-term debt 2,111 2,249 Trade payables 169 193 Salaries and holiday allowances 241 239 Borrowings and bank overdrafts: Social security premiums and other taxation 70 59 Multi-currency rollover credit facility – 144 Pension-related payables 27 27 Euro Commercial Paper program 200 – Royalties payable 97 96 Collateral 2 – Other accruals and payables 255 245 Bank overdrafts, measured at amortized cost Note 27 468 604 Interest payable 32 32 Total borrowings and bank overdrafts 670 748 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Note 29 – 0 Deferred and contingent acquisition payables Note 29 10 2 Short-term private placements, measured at amortized Total 901 893 cost 250 – * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Short-term lease liabilities 75 67 Deferred and contingent acquisition payables, measured at fair value Note 28 10 2 Note 29 – Long-term Debt Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, measured at fair value Note 28 – 0 Total short-term debt 1,005 817 Nominal Effective Nominal Repayment Repayment 2019 2018* value interest interest commitcommitGross debt 3,116 3,066 rate in % rate in % ments ments 1-5 years >5 years Minus: Bonds 2008-2028 (100.00 ) ** €36 6.812 6.748 – 36 36 36 Cash and cash equivalents Note 27 (899) (783) Bonds 2013-2023 (99.709**) €700 2.950 2.875 698 – 698 698 Deferred divestment consideration receivable Note 26 – (13) Bonds 2014-2024 (99.164**) €400 2.640 2.500 398 – 398 397 Derivative financial instruments: Bonds 2017-2027 (99.659**) €500 1.575 1.500 – 497 497 497 Non-current receivable Note 22 (16) (21) Subtotal bonds, measured at Current receivable Note 26 (2) 0 amortized cost 1,096 533 1,629 1,628 Net debt 2,199 2,249 Private placement 2008-2038 ¥20,000 3.330 3.330 – 163 163 158 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. Private placement 2010-2020 (98.567**) €250 4.425 4.200 – – – 249 Subtotal private placements, Accounting policies Financial assets and liabilities are Impairment of non-derivative measured at amortized cost – 163 163 407 Financial instruments offset and presented as net in the financial assets Financial instruments comprise the statement of financial position when The determination of the provision Deferred and contingent following: the group has a legal right to offset for impairment is based on the acquisition payables, measured • Non-derivative financial assets and the amounts and intends either to group’s historical average of three at fair value 1 – 1 12 liabilities: financial assets settle them on a net basis or to years of credit losses, which is used Other debt, measured at designated at fair value through realize the asset and settle the as a proxy for expected losses on amortized cost 25 – 25 14 profit or loss, trade and liability simultaneously. trade receivables with similar Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, miscellaneous receivables, cash characteristics and credit profile. measured at fair value – – 0 0 and cash equivalents, borrowings The group recognizes non-derivative Trade receivables longer than one Subtotal other long-term debt 26 – 26 26 and bank overdrafts, trade financial assets and liabilities on the year overdue and specific risk trade Total long-term debt (excluding payables, short-term and long-term trade date. receivables with no reasonable lease liabilities) 1,122 696 1,818 2,061 debt; and expectation of recovery, are Lease liabilities *** 293 188 • Derivative financial assets and Non-derivative financial assets impaired and hence provided for in Total long-term debt 2,111 2,249 liabilities: currency forwards and Loans and receivables comprise full, unless reliable supporting cross-currency interest rate swaps. trade and miscellaneous receivables information to conclude otherwise is * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 20 – Leasing. ** Issue price of the financial instrument. and are measured at amortized cost, available. The group does not *** For the repayment commitments of lease liabilities, refer to Note 20 – Leasing. less any accumulated impairment. present its impairment losses 142 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 143 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements separately in the statement of profit Derivative financial instruments and hedging in other comprehensive Net investment hedge Gains and losses accumulated in The gain or loss relating to the or loss, but in the notes thereto. hedging activities income, and accumulated in the Fair value changes of derivative other comprehensive income are ineffective part of the hedging The group holds derivative financial hedge reserve within total equity. financial instruments that are used included in profit or loss when the relationship is recognized in profit or Non-derivative financial assets instruments to hedge risk exposures. to hedge the net investment in foreign operation is disposed. If a loss within financing results. designated at fair value through Derivative financial instruments are Cash flow hedge foreign operations, which are hedging relationship is terminated profit or loss initially recognized at fair value on The effective part of changes in the determined to be an effective hedge, and the derivative financial Derivatives that do not qualify for Non-derivative financial assets the date a derivative contract is fair value of derivatives that are are recognized directly in other instrument is not sold, future hedge accounting designated at fair value through concluded and are subsequently designated and qualify as cash flow comprehensive income in the changes in the fair value of the Changes in the fair value of any profit or loss comprise equity remeasured at fair value. The hedges are recognized and translation reserve. derivative financial instrument are derivative financial instruments that investments and are measured at method of recognizing gains or accumulated in other comprehensive recognized in profit or loss. do not qualify for hedge accounting fair value. Fair value changes are losses depends on whether the income. Amounts accumulated in are recognized in profit or loss within recognized in profit or loss. derivative is designated as a hedging other comprehensive income are financing results. instrument and if so, the nature of reclassified to profit or loss in the Non-derivative financial liabilities the item being hedged. same period the hedged item affects Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Non-derivative financial liabilities the statement of profit or loss within Gross debt, excluding lease liabilities, derivative financial instruments, and bank overdrafts comprise long-term debt (such as The group designates certain the line where the result from the bond loans and other loans from derivatives as either: hedged transaction is recognized. Net cash flows Balance at credit institutions), trade payables, • Hedges of a risk associated with a Balance at Acquisitions/ Unwinding of Foreign Other exchange non-cash December 31, and borrowings and bank overdrafts. recognized asset or liability or a The gain or loss relating to the January 1, 2019 Divestments discount differences movements 2019 highly probable forecast ineffective part of the hedging Non-derivative financial liabilities transaction (cash flow hedge); relationship is recognized in profit or Bonds 1,628 – – 1 – – 1,629 measured at amortized cost • Hedges of a net investment in a loss within financing results. Private placements 407 – – 1 5 – 413 Financial liabilities measured at foreign operation (net investment Other gross debt 172 67 6 – 2 (9) 238 amortized cost are bonds, the Euro hedge); or Reclassification of hedge reserve to Total 2,207 67 6 2 7 (9) 2,280 Commercial Paper program, private • Currency forward instruments to profit or loss placements, and other long-term protect the group’s net profit. When a hedging instrument matures and short-term debt. or is sold, or when a hedge no longer The fair value of derivative financial meets the criteria for hedge Net cash flows Balance at The group initially recognizes instruments is classified as a accounting, any cumulative gain or Balance at Acquisitions/ Unwinding of Foreign Other non-derivative financial liabilities at non-current asset or long-term debt loss existing in other comprehensive exchange non-cash December 31, January 1, fair value less any directly if the remaining maturity of the income at that time remains in other 2018 Divestments discount differences movements 2018 attributable transaction costs. After derivative financial instrument is comprehensive income and is Bonds 1,627 – – 1 – – 1,628 initial recognition, these financial more than 12 months, and as a recognized when the hedged Private placements 396 – – 1 10 – 407 liabilities are measured at amortized current asset or liability if the transaction is ultimately recognized Other gross debt 776 (617) 13 – 1 (1) 172 cost with any difference between remaining maturity of the derivative in profit or loss. When a hedged cost and redemption value being financial instrument is less than 12 transaction is no longer expected to Total 2,799 (617) 13 2 11 (1) 2,207 recognized in profit or loss over the months after the end of the occur, the cumulative gain or loss that period of the borrowings, using the reporting period. was reported in other comprehensive Lease liabilities effective interest method. income is reclassified to profit or loss. With respect to foreign currency 2019 2018 Non-derivative financial liabilities forwards used for hedge accounting, designated at fair value through the group designates as a hedge Position at January 1 255 242 profit or loss instrument only the change in the Additions from new leases 128 32 Non-derivative financial liabilities value of the spot component of a Acquired through business combinations Note 8 – 6 designated at fair value through forward contract (and not the forward Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale Note 9 0 – profit or loss comprise contingent element). The differential between Contract modifications and reassessments of options 52 38 considerations and are measured at the contracted forward rate and the Repayment of lease liabilities (80) (74) fair value. Changes therein are market spot rate, defined as forward recognized in profit or loss. points, will be recognized as cost of Unwinding of discount 11 7 Foreign exchange differences and other movements 2 4 Position at December 31 368 255 144 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 145 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Loan maturity financial covenant of the credit facility. At December 31, Note 30 – Financial Risk Management The following amounts of gross debt (excluding lease 2019, the indebtedness ratio was 1.6 (2018: 1.8). The liabilities) at December 31, 2019, are due within and after existing credit facility covenant has not been redefined five years: due to the adoption of IFRS 16. Risk management framework with the annual treasury plan approved by the Audit The group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial Committee. The group does not purchase or hold 2019 Euro Commercial Paper program risks, including market, liquidity, and credit risk. derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 2021 5 On May 7, 2019, Wolters Kluwer established a Euro Identification and management of financial risks are The group’s risk profile is defined and reviewed regularly. Commercial Paper (ECP) program, under which the carried out by the central treasury department (Corporate Although the economic environment has become more 2022 5 company may issue unsecured, short-term debt (ECP Treasury), whereby the treasury operations are conducted challenging because of the volatility in financial markets, 2023 714 notes) for a maximum of €1.0 billion. The program within a framework of policies and guidelines (Treasury the exposure to financial risks for the company has not 2024 398 provides flexible funding for short-term cash needs at Policy), which have been approved by the Executive Board significantly changed, nor the approach to these risks. Due after 2024 696 attractive rates. The outstanding amount per December and Supervisory Board. The Treasury Policy is reviewed at Long-term debt 1,818 31, 2019 is €200 million, included in borrowings and bank least annually considering market circumstances and Market risk Short-term debt (2020) 930 overdrafts. market volatility, and is based on assumptions concerning Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such Total (excluding lease liabilities) 2,748 future events, subject to uncertainties and risks that are as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect Other bilateral bank loans outside the group’s control. The Treasury Committee, the group’s profit or loss or the value of its holdings of In 2019, the group renewed a bilateral bank loan of comprising the Vice President Group Accounting & financial instruments. The objective of market risk Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost $100 million (undrawn at December 31, 2019; December 31, Reporting, Controller Corporate Office, Executive Vice management is to manage and control market risk Bonds 2018: undrawn). The interest rates on the other bilateral President Treasury & Risk, and representatives of the exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing The group has senior bonds outstanding for an amount of bank loans are variable. Corporate Treasury and Treasury Back-Office, meets the return. €1,629 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: €1,628 million). quarterly to review treasury activities and compliance The nominal interest rates on the bonds are fixed until Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit with the Treasury Policy, and reports directly to the Currency risk redemption. or loss Executive Board and the Audit Committee. The Treasury The group has identified transaction and translation risks Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit Back-Office reports deviations directly to the CFO and the as the main currency risks. The transaction risk exposure Private placements or loss are deferred and contingent considerations and Executive Vice President Treasury & Risk. within individual group entities is relatively immaterial. The group holds private placements in euro and Japanese currency forwards classified as derivatives at fair value The transaction prices invoiced to customers for goods yen. Private placements denominated in Japanese yen through profit or loss (not qualifying for hedge Under the Internal Control Framework, the financial and/or services are mainly denominated in the customers’ (¥20,000 million) are converted and hedged to euro via accounting). reporting controls, including policy and procedures of the local currencies. Given the nature of the business, almost cross-currency interest rate swaps. These swaps have Corporate Treasury Department are periodically reviewed. all related costs are also incurred in those local been collateralized for credit risk in line with the treasury Financial derivatives measured at fair value through other Corporate Treasury reports on a quarterly basis to the currencies. Derivative financial instruments to hedge risk management policies. The value of the collateral is comprehensive income Audit Committee about its compliance to the Treasury transaction risks are therefore not frequently used. €2 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: €0 million). Financial derivatives measured at fair value through other Policy. comprehensive income are derivatives such as net Hedge accounting Multi-currency rollover credit facility investment hedges and cash flow hedges. The group’s funding activities are carried out by Corporate Translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or In June 2016, the group concluded the extension of the Treasury, using long-term capital market instruments and losses arise from translating the statement of profit or €600 million multi-currency revolving credit facility Defaults and/or breaches committed credit facilities to ensure optimal financial loss, statement of financial position, and statement of maturing in July 2020, to €550 million maturing in July There were no defaults or breaches on the loans and flexibility and capital efficiency. The borrowings, together cash flows of foreign subsidiaries to the group’s 2021. The relevant terms and conditions remained borrowings during 2019 and 2018. with cash generated from operations, are lent or presentation currency (euro) for consolidation purposes. effectively unchanged after adopting the IFRS 16 Leasing contributed as equity to the operating companies. The standard. The interest rates on the multi-currency group targets a net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately The group’s risk management strategy practice is that rollover credit facility are variable. The credit facility is for 2.5. However, the group could temporarily deviate from material currency translation exposures (including U.S. general corporate purposes. this relative indebtedness ratio. At December 31, 2019, the dollar net investments) are partially hedged by Corporate net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.6 (2018: 1.8). Treasury. Currency exposures, which impact the At December 31, 2019, no amounts were drawn (December statements of financial position and/or profit or loss by 31, 2018: €144 million) under the facility. The multiAll treasury activities – in particular, the use of derivative 10% or more, are considered material. The translation currency rollover facility is subject to customary financial instruments – are subject to the principle of risk exposure on the statement of cash flows is partly conditions, including a financial credit covenant. The minimization and are executed by specialist treasury mitigated by matching cash inflows and outflows in the credit facility covenant requires that the consolidated net personnel. For this reason, financial transactions and risk same currency. The group’s main translation risk is its senior borrowings (excluding fully subordinated debt) to positions are managed in a central treasury management exposure to the U.S. dollar. adjusted EBITDA shall not exceed 3.5. In 2019, the group and payment system. It is the group’s policy that material was comfortably within the thresholds stipulated in the currency translation and variable interest exposures are In line with the group’s risk management strategy, the partially hedged by Corporate Treasury, in accordance group manages the translation risk using three types of 146 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 147 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements risk mitigating actions, of which two types of transactions • Partially protect net profit for foreign exchange Sensitivity analysis are designated as a hedge and for which the group applies differences using U.S. dollar and other currency forwards A sensitivity analysis on the derivative financial yen against the euro from their levels at December 31, 2019, hedge accounting: not qualifying for hedge accounting. The fair value instruments portfolio yields the following results, assuming and an instantaneous 1% increase of the U.S. dollar, • Partially protect total equity for foreign exchange changes of these currency forwards are recognized in the an instantaneous 1% decline of the U.S. dollar and Japanese Japanese yen, and euro interest rates respectively: differences using U.S. dollar currency forward contracts total financing results and partially offset any qualifying as net investment hedges, which partially translation risk on profit or loss elements. In 2019, the in millions Hedged risk Amount Type of Exchange Interest offset the translation risk on U.S. dollar-denominated group swapped 74% (2018: 59%) of the net ﬁnancing instrument rate movement rate movement € € subsidiaries and long-term receivables from U.S. results of €58 million (2018: €77 million) into U.S. dollar, operations being the hedged item. The fair value changes using foreign exchange derivatives of $40 million (2018: Cash ﬂow hedge Changes in ¥ ﬂoating Cross-currency of the net investment hedge partially offset the currency $50 million). Based on the percentage of 74% for net interest payments and interest differences on translation of U.S. dollar-denominated ﬁnancing results payable in U.S. dollar, an instantaneous ¥ exchange rates ¥20,000 rate swaps (2) (2) subsidiaries and long-term receivables from U.S. 1% decline of the U.S. dollar against the euro from its Net investment hedge Changes of the U.S. dollar operations, both being recognized in equity. The group exchange rate at December 31, 2019, with all other net investments due to had U.S. dollar forward contracts outstanding for a total variables held constant, would result in a decrease of ﬂuctuations of U.S. dollar Forward notional amount of €178 million ($200 million) at approximately €0.4 million of net ﬁnancing results (2018: exchange rates $200 contracts 2 0 December 31, 2019 (2018: €175 million or $200 million). approximately €0.4 million). These hedges create a U.S. dollar balance sheet cover with a future settlement date and have a carrying value Before applying hedge accounting, the group assesses, in Interest rate risk of €2 million at December 31, 2019 (see Note 29 Longaccordance with the group’s risk management policies and The group is exposed to interest rate risk. The group aims • No more than 25% of outstanding gross debt minus term Debt). The group had U.S. dollar liabilities the parameters of the hedge, that the designated hedge is to mitigate the impact on its results and cash flows of available cash should be repayable within a 12-months outstanding for a total notional amount of €451 million highly effective. In 2019, the group did not record interest rate movements, both by arranging fixed or period; ($507 million) at December 31, 2019 (2018: €462 million or ineffectiveness because of hedging activities (2018: no variable rate funding and by use of derivative financial • Acquiring of funding to start at least one year in advance $529 million). The U.S. dollar liabilities include net ineffectiveness). The group measures hedge effectiveness instruments. At December 31, 2019, the group’s interest of all maturing debt or alternative committed funding investment hedges and other U.S. dollar-denominated on a forward-looking basis at the inception of the hedging rate position (excluding cash and cash equivalents and should be in place; and liabilities. The U.S. dollar balance sheet cover of 13% relationship, and on an ongoing basis at reporting dates lease liabilities) carried predominantly fixed rates rather • Minimum headroom of €500 million (sum of unused (2018: 13%) is deﬁned as the sum of U.S. dollar net through a qualitative assessment of the critical terms of than floating rates. Of the total interest portfolio committed credit facilities, cash and cash equivalents, investment hedges and other U.S. dollar liabilities the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The hedge (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 94% (2018: 95%) was and receivable derivative financial instruments, minus outstanding, divided by the group’s net investment in values will generally move in the opposite direction carried at a fixed rate. The credit facility and the other other short-term debt, current deferred acquisition U.S. dollar-denominated assets; because of the same risk and hence an economic bilateral loans have a variable interest rate, as well as the payables, current payable derivative financial • Partially protect the translation differences on the relationship exists. The results of these effectiveness Euro Commercial Paper program. instruments, and bank overdrafts). Japanese yen private placement swaps (2019 and 2018: tests all satisfied the effectiveness criterion during the ¥20,000 million) using cash flow hedges by means of four year. Assuming the same mix of variable and fixed interest rate Per December 31, 2019, the group has access to the unused cross-currency interest rate swaps. The fair value instruments, an instantaneous increase of interest rates part of the committed credit facilities of €689 million in changes of the cash flow hedge are recognized in equity of 1% compared to the rates on December 31, 2019, with all total (2018: €543 million) and has cash and cash until the hedge relationship with the corresponding other variables held constant, would result, on an annual equivalents of €899 million (2018: €783 million), receivable hedged instrument is terminated. At that moment the basis, in an increase of approximately €2 million of the net derivative ﬁnancial instruments of €18 million (2018: translation differences are recycled into profit or loss; financing results (2018: €1 million). €21 million), minus other short-term debt, current and deferred acquisition payables, bank overdrafts, Euro Liquidity risk Commercial Paper, and current payable derivative The following table details the group’s sensitivity to a 1% Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will encounter ﬁnancial instruments of in total €680 million (2018: weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro: difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its €606 million). The headroom was €926 million at year-end financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or 2019 (2018: €741 million). 2019 2018 another financial asset. The group’s approach to manage Revenues (31) (28) liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have No property has been collateralized or in any other way Adjusted operating proﬁt (9) (8) enough liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due. secured under debt contracts. Operating proﬁt (8) (8) The group actively manages liquidity risk by maintaining Exposure to liquidity risk Adjusted net proﬁt (6) (5) enough cash and cash equivalents, and the availability of The following tables relate to the remaining contractual Proﬁt for the year (6) (5) committed borrowing capacity. To reduce liquidity risk, cash flows of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The Shareholders’ equity at December 31 (32) (33) the group has established the following minimum amounts for the non-derivative financial instruments are Adjusted free cash ﬂow (7) (7) requirements: gross and undiscounted and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements. For the remaining contractual cash flows of lease liabilities, refer to Note 20 – Leasing. 148 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 149 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Contractual cash flows 2019 Contractual cash flows 2018 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More than Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More than amount undiscounted than years years 5 years amount undiscounted than years years 5 years cash flows 1 year cash flows 1 year Non-derivative financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities (excl. lease liabilities) (excl. lease liabilities) Bonds: Bonds: Bonds 2008-2028 36 57 2 2 7 46 Bonds 2008-2028 36 59 2 2 7 48 Bonds 2013-2023 698 780 20 20 740 – Bonds 2013-2023 698 800 20 20 760 – Bonds 2014-2024 398 450 10 10 430 – Bonds 2014-2024 397 460 10 10 30 410 Bonds 2017-2027 497 562 8 8 23 523 Bonds 2017-2027 497 569 8 8 23 530 Private placements: Private placements: Private placement 2008-2038 163 264 5 5 16 238 Private placement 2008-2038 158 262 5 5 16 236 Private placement 2010-2020 250 261 261 – – – Private placement 2010-2020 249 272 11 261 – – Long-term and short-term deferred and Long-term and short-term deferred and contingent acquisition payables 11 11 10 1 – – contingent acquisition payables 14 14 2 5 7 – Other debt 25 25 – 7 18 – Other debt 14 14 0 3 11 – Borrowings and bank overdrafts 670 670 670 – – – Borrowings and bank overdrafts 748 748 748 – – – Trade payables 169 169 169 – – – Trade payables 193 193 193 – – – Total 2,917 3,249 1,155 53 1,234 807 Total 3,004 3,391 999 314 854 1,224 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments (Receipts) (180) (180) – – – (Receipts) (175) (175) – – – Payments 178 178 – – – Payments 174 174 – – – Foreign exchange derivatives (2) (2) (2) 0 0 0 Foreign exchange derivatives 0 (1) (1) 0 0 0 (Receipts) (264) (5) (5) (16) (238) (Receipts) (262) (5) (5) (16) (236) Payments 268 8 8 23 229 Payments 276 8 8 23 237 Cross-currency interest rate swaps (16) 4 3 3 7 (9) Cross-currency interest rate swaps (21) 14 3 3 7 1 Total (18) 2 1 3 7 (9) Total (21) 13 2 3 7 1 The table shows net cash ﬂow amounts for derivative The table shows net cash ﬂow amounts for derivative ﬁnancial instruments that have simultaneous cash ﬁnancial instruments that have simultaneous cash settlements. settlements. 150 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 151 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Credit risk Trade receivables Fair value of financial instruments Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized if The group has a natural exposure to credit risk in its The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair (excluding lease liabilities), including their levels in the a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails operational business. This exposure of the group’s values of financial assets and liabilities fair value hierarchy. to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally operating companies to credit risk is inherently limited, from the group’s receivables from customers and as there is no customer who represents more than 10% of investments in debt securities. The carrying amount of the group’s revenues. A substantial part of the 2019 2018 non-derivative financial assets represents the maximum transactions is prepaid by customers. The group’s Carrying Fair Level Level Level Carrying Fair credit exposure and amounts to €2,130 million (2018: operating companies actively monitor the solvency of value value 1 2 3 value value €1,934 million). their key accounts and assess creditworthiness of Non-derivative financial instruments: customers before concluding a contract. Financial assets at fair value through profit or Financial instruments and excess cash at financial loss 0 0 0 0 0 institutions The group determines the impairment on trade Unbilled revenues * 104 104 81 81 The group is exposed to credit risks due to its use of receivables and contract assets using the lifetime Trade receivables * 1,087 1,087 1,022 1,022 derivatives and because of excess cash deposited at expected credit loss model, whereby the historical credit Deferred divestment consideration banks. It is the group’s policy to conclude financial losses on trade receivables (a credit event) are used as a receivable* – – 13 13 transactions under ISDA (International Swap Dealers base for the future expected credit losses. The policy and Association) master agreements. Cash invested and the assumptions are periodically evaluated by the group Miscellaneous receivables (current) * 40 40 35 35 financial transactions are only concluded with financial using macroeconomic data and historical back-testing of Cash and cash equivalents * 899 899 783 783 institutions with strong credit ratings (at least a credit the assumptions. Total non-derivative ﬁnancial assets 2,130 2,130 0 1,934 1,934 rating of A-/A3). Furthermore, credit limits per counterparty are in place and are monitored periodically. The trade receivables that are neither past due nor Bonds 2008-2028 36 54 54 36 53 impaired have sound creditworthiness and meet the Bonds 2013-2023 698 764 764 698 769 At December 31, 2019, there were no material credit risk credit rating grades as defined in the internal policy for concentrations outstanding while the average weighted assessing the impairment of financial assets. Bonds 2014-2024 398 439 439 397 434 credit rating of counterparties was A+ (2018: A+). The aim Bonds 2017-2027 497 539 539 497 507 is to spread transactions among counterparties. No credit Private placement 2008-2038 163 227 227 158 219 limits were materially exceeded during the reporting Private placement 2010-2020 250 260 260 249 267 period and management does not expect any losses from Long-term and short-term deferred and non-performance by these counterparties on current contingent acquisition payables 11 11 11 14 14 outstanding contracts. Other debt * 25 25 14 14 Borrowings and bank overdrafts * 670 670 748 748 Trade payables * 169 169 193 193 Total non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 2,917 3,158 1,796 487 11 3,004 3,218 Derivative financial instruments: Non-current receivable (16) (16) (16) (21) (21) Current receivable (2) (2) (2) 0 0 Non-current payable – – – – – Current payable – – – 0 0 Total derivative ﬁnancial instruments (18) (18) (18) (21) (21) * Fair value approximates the carrying amount. 152 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 153 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Fair value hierarchy • Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not Note 31 – Employee Benefits The fair value has been determined by the group based based on observable market data. The valuation method on market data and appropriate valuation methods/ can be based on discounted cash flow analysis, or other quotes. Valuation methods include: models that are substantially identical. 2019 2018 • Level 1: reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active Retirement plans 47 54 markets for similar assets and liabilities; There has been no change in the fair value hierarchy Other post-employment beneﬁt plans 61 75 • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are compared to 2018. Other long-term employment beneﬁts 14 14 observable for the asset or liability and that may have a Total 122 143 significant impact on the fair value, either directly (i.e. The Level 3 fair value movements in non-derivative as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) based financial liabilities are as follows: on discounted cash flow analysis, using data input of Accounting policies plan assets (excluding interest), and cost and the net interest for the period observable financial markets and financial institutions; Defined contribution plans the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, after the remeasurement are and Obligations for contributions to excluding interest), are recognized determined using the assumptions defined contribution plans are immediately in other comprehensive used for the remeasurement. 2019 2018 recognized as personnel expenses in income, in the period in which they profit or loss in the period during occur. Long-term service benefits Balance at January 1 14 14 which services are rendered by The group’s net obligation in respect Acquired through business combinations Note 8 6 13 employees. Prepaid contributions are The group determines the net of long-term service benefits, such Settlements Note 8 (1) (12) recognized as an asset to the extent interest expense or income on the as jubilee benefits, is the amount of Fair value changes of contingent considerations Note 12 (9) (1) that a cash refund or reduction in net defined benefit liability or asset future benefits that employees have Foreign exchange differences and other movements 1 0 future payments is available. for the period by applying the earned in return for their service in Balance at December 31 11 14 discount rate used to measure the the current and prior periods. The Defined benefit plans defined benefit obligation at the obligation is calculated using the The group’s net obligation in respect of beginning of the annual period to the projected unit credit method and is Level 3 financial liabilities comprise deferred and defined employee benefit plans is net defined benefit liability or asset, discounted to its present value, with contingent acquisition payables. The group has calculated separately for each plan by considering any changes in the net the fair value of any related assets reassessed the fair value of these payables at year-end estimating the amount of future defined benefit liability or asset deducted. 2019 and recognized a €9 million gain (2018: €1 million benefits that employees have earned in during the period resulting from gain). the current and prior periods, contributions and benefit payments. Critical estimates and judgments discounting that amount, and Net interest expense and other The net plan assets or liabilities of Deferred and contingent acquisition payables deducting the fair value of any plan expenses related to defined benefit the defined employee benefit plans assets. plans, like fund administration costs, and the costs related to the pension Accounting policies expected payment is determined by estimated fair value could are recognized in profit or loss, when and post-retirement medical plans The contingent considerations are considering possible adjusted potentially increase (or decrease) if The calculation of defined benefit incurred. are based on actuarial and economic based on a discounted cash flow operating profit or revenue annual growth rates and/or adjusted obligations is performed annually by assumptions. The main economic model, which considers the present scenarios, the amount to be paid operating profit margins are higher a qualified actuary using the When the benefits of a plan are assumptions are: value of expected payments, using a under each scenario, and the (or lower). projected unit credit method. When changed or when a plan is curtailed, • Discount rate; risk-adjusted discount rate. The probability of each scenario. The the calculation results in a potential the resulting change in the defined • Rate of pension increase; asset for the group, the recognized benefits that relates to past service or • Inflation; and asset is limited to the present value the gain or loss on curtailment is • Medical trend rate. The fair value of the deferred and contingent acquisition payables at December 31, 2019, can be presented as of economic benefits available in the recognized directly in profit or loss. payables amounts to €11 million (2018: €14 million). follows: form of any future refunds from the The group recognizes gains and losses For actuarial assumptions, the group A summary of deferred and contingent acquisition plan, or reductions in future on the settlement of a defined benefit uses generally accepted mortality contributions to the plan. To plan when the settlement occurs. A rates (longevity risk). The withdrawal calculate the present value of curtailment occurs when an entity rates and retirement rates are based Fair value Of which: Of which: Maximum exposure Fair value December 31, 2019 short-term long-term (undiscounted) December 31, 2018 economic benefits, consideration is significantly reduces the number of on statistics provided by the given to any applicable minimum employees covered by a plan. relevant entities based on past Total 11 10 1 11 14 funding requirements. Amendments to the terms of a defined experiences. benefit plan will be considered plan All remeasurement gains and losses amendments and will be fully of the net defined benefit liabilities or accounted for as past service costs. If assets, which are made up of a plan amendment, curtailment or actuarial gains and losses, return on settlement occurs, the current service 154 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 155 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Provisions for retirement and other post-employment funding liabilities are determined based on a 120-month powers and sets out in codes and guidance the benefit plans to external entities, such as company pension funds and moving average of the 20-year forward rate. Benefit parameters for scheme funding. At December 31, 2019, the The provisions for retirement and other post-employment insurance companies. In addition, the group provides reductions, if necessary, will be smoothed over time when future deficit contribution commitments are larger than plans relate to defined employee benefit plans. certain employees with other benefits upon retirement. recovery to full funding within eight years is not expected. the surplus in the U.K. plan and therefore there is an The group has arranged pension schemes in various These benefits include contributions towards medical Reductions will amount to one-eighth of the deficit at the additional balance sheet liability recognized in respect of countries for most of its employees in accordance with health plans in the United States, where the employer measurement date. Indexation of pension entitlements these contributions. the legal requirements, customs, and local situation of refunds part of the insurance premium for retirees, or, in will not be allowed at funding ratios below 110%, while full the countries involved. These retirement schemes are the case of uninsured schemes, bears the medical indexation will be allowed only at funding ratios higher Other post-employment plans partly managed by the group itself and partly entrusted expenses while deducting the participants’ contributions. than approximately 125% (these are yearand planOther post-employment plans exist in the United States, specific). Canada, and Italy. These plans have no plan assets and are unfunded. The main plan is the post-employment medical Characteristics of material plans The Dutch pension scheme has an unaudited 12-month plan in the United States The group funds the U.S. postrolling average coverage ratio as determined under the employment medical plan obligations on a pay-as-you-go The Netherlands United States United Kingdom nFTK of 108.0% at December 31, 2019 (2018: 112.9%). If the basis. If healthcare costs in the future increase more than Retirement plans nFTK funding ratio is below 104%, a rolling eight-year anticipated, the actuarially determined liability, and as a recovery plan should be submitted to DNB, on an annual result the related other post-employment benefit plan Type of benefits Pensions Pensions Pensions basis. The pension contributions are based on expense, could increase along with future cash outflows. Type of plan Career average Final salary Final salary contributions by the employer (two-thirds) and Status of plan Open Frozen Frozen employees (one-third). The total annual pension Funding requirements Service costs Yes No No contribution is currently determined at 24% of base Funding requirements of the plans are based on local Status of plan funding Funded Funded Funded salary. The pension base is capped but will be corrected legislation and separate actuarial valuations for which for inflation annually. the assumptions differ from the assumptions used under IAS 19. The funding requirements are based on each Other post-employment plans United States pension fund’s actuarial measurement framework set out Type of benefits Post-retirement The U.S. retirement scheme has an annual statutory in the funding policies of the individual plans. medical plan valuation which forms the basis for establishing the Type of plan Annual insurance employer contribution each year (subject to ERISA and IRS In the Netherlands, there is no formal requirement to premium coverage minimums). The U.S. scheme was a final average pay plan, fund deficits of the plan by the employer. Status of plan Open based on years of credited service, but is now a frozen plan. The pay and benefit accruals are frozen. The service In the United States, there are minimum contribution Service costs Yes costs are zero. The plan fiduciaries of the U.S. scheme are requirements. In case the statutory funded status falls Status of plan funding Unfunded required by law to act in the interest of the fund's below certain thresholds, the U.S. Pensions Protection Act beneficiaries. The fiduciary duties for the scheme are requires the deficit to be rectified with additional allocated between committees which are staffed by minimum employer contributions, spread over a sevenThere are open retirement plans for new entrants in the €1.2 billion as of December 31, 2019, followed by the senior employees of the group; the investment committee year period, to avoid restrictions on the ability to pay Netherlands and Belgium. United Kingdom and the United States with defined has the primary responsibility for the investment and some accelerated benefit forms, such as lump sums. benefit obligations of €120 million and €104 million management of plan assets. These funding levels are reassessed annually. The group has closed plans in Belgium, Canada, and respectively. There are also retirement plans in Belgium, Australia. A closed plan means that no new members can Canada, and Australia. All plans are funded schemes. The United Kingdom The trustees of the U.K. plan are required to act in the join the pension plans. However, current participants in defined benefit plans in the Netherlands, United States, The U.K. retirement scheme is a final salary-based best interest of the plan’s participants. The group and the the plan can still accrue for future service benefits, and and United Kingdom are insured with the company’s scheme, but it is a frozen plan. The trustees of the trustees finalized the latest triennial valuation in 2017 for therefore the plan incurs service costs for the active self-administrated pension funds, which are separate pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of funding purposes in 2018. The parties agreed to have a participants. legal entities with plan assets being held independently the fund's beneficiaries and are responsible for the continuation of the funding of £1.4 million per annum for of the group. investment policy regarding the assets of the fund. The the years 2019 up to and including 2021. The U.K. Pensions If a plan is frozen, the plan is closed to new entrants and board of trustees consists of an equal number of Regulator has the power to demand more funding and existing participants do not build up future service The Netherlands company-appointed and member-nominated directors. support where a pension scheme has been exposed to an benefit accruals. The group has frozen plans in the United In the Netherlands, the scheme is a career average salary The level of funding is determined by statutory triennial unacceptable level of risk. As part of the 2017 actuarial States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. These plans will scheme; members accrue a portion of their current salary actuarial valuations in accordance with pension funding valuation, the parent company issued a have a service cost of zero. at a rate calculated to enable them to reach a pension legislation. Where the scheme falls below 100% funded guarantee of £18 million, with a negative pledge issued by level based on their average salary. The Dutch pension status, the group and the scheme trustees must agree on a Wolters Kluwer U.K. group company. In addition, it has Retirement plans plan falls under the supervision of the Dutch Central Bank how the deficit is to be remedied. Pension rate increase is been agreed to continue with any annual deficit The group has its largest defined benefit retirement plan (‘DNB’). The scheme funding level is determined by the usually a fixed promise and is built into the funding contributions. The funding will be reassessed based on a in the Netherlands with defined benefit obligations of new Financial Assessment Framework (‘nFTK’), whereby requirement. The U.K. Pensions Regulator has significant new triennial valuation to be finalized in 2021. 156 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 157 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Risk management of main plans in the group consider the interests of all stakeholders. The outcome of For most of the retirement and other post-employment • U.S.: Pri-2012 Mortality Table with MP 2019 projections, The retirement and other post-employment plans expose these studies results in a risk-return trade-off, taking the schemes, the discount rate is determined or validated being the current standard mortality table (2018: the group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risks, duration of pension liabilities into account, which will be using the ‘Towers Watson Rate: Link methodology’, which RP-2006 Mortality Table with MP 2018 projections); and interest rate risks, investment and market risks, and an integral part of the investment strategy. The uses mid-price AA corporate bond data from Bloomberg. • U.K.: SAPS S2 (Year of Birth) CMI 2017 projections with currency risks. investment strategy covers the allocation of asset classes Bonds with options are excluded, as are bonds whose 1.5% long-term improvement rate (2018: SAPS S2 (Year of and hedging strategies, and also decisions on new and yields are among the top and bottom 10% within each Birth) CMI 2017 projections with 1.5% long-term The group has restructured employee benefit plans in the alternative asset classes, passive versus active maturity category (outliers). The 30-year spot rate is improvement rate. past by moving existing and newly hired employees to investments, leverage, and the use of derivatives. assumed constant beyond 30 years. For the U.S. plans the defined contribution plans or by freezing the plans (either discount rate is based on the yield curve/cash flow Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are with no future service benefit accruals and/or no new Actuarial assumptions for retirement and other postmatching approach which uses spot yields from the set based on actuarial advice and best estimate mortality participants entering the plan). These redesigns reduce or employment benefit plans standard FTSE and the timing of the cash flows of the plan. tables in the applicable countries. cancel future benefit accruals in the plans and The discount rate is the yield rate at the end of the consequently reduce the pace of liability growth. The reporting period on high-quality corporate bonds that Mortality assumptions for the most important plans are The current life expectancies underlying the value of the group also reviews periodically its financing and have maturity dates approximating the terms of the based on the following retirement mortality tables: defined benefit retirement obligations at December 31, investments policies (liability-driven investments) and its group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same • The Netherlands: AG projection table 2018, including 2019, are as follows: liability management (lump sum offerings). currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. fund speciﬁc 2019 experience loading (2018: AG The calculation is performed annually by qualified projection table 2018, including fund speciﬁc 2016 The various plans manage their balance sheet to meet actuaries. experience loading); their pension promise. By using asset liability management (ALM) studies, major risk sources are The following weighted average principal actuarial in years The Netherlands United States United Kingdom identified, and the impact of decisions is assessed by assumptions were used to determine the pension Life expectancy at age of 65 now – Male 21.9 20.6 22.2 quantifying the potential impact on elements like future expense and other post-employment plans’ expense for pensions, contributions, and funded ratio. These ALM the year under review, and defined benefit obligations at Life expectancy at age of 65 now – Female 24.2 22.6 24.1 studies also determine risk and return measures that the end of the reporting period: Life expectancy aged 65 in 20 years – Male 24.0 22.9 23.9 in % 2019 2018 Life expectancy aged 65 in 20 years – Female 26.3 25.3 26.0 Retirement plans Discount rate to discount the obligations at year-end 1.3 2.1 Given the nature of the defined benefit obligations in Sensitivity of actuarial assumptions Discount rate of pension expense 2.1 2.1 Belgium, Italy, and Australia, with lump sum benefit The sensitivity for a 1% change in the discount rate, a 0.5% Expected rate of pension increases (in payment) at year-end 1.3 1.2 payments at retirement date instead of annuity change in inflation, and a 0.5% change in the pension payments, the impact of changing life expectancy after increase rate is as follows for the retirement plans: Expected rate of pension increases (in deferral) at year-end 1.3 1.1 the retirement age on the plan liabilities is limited in Expected rate of inflation increase for pension expense 1.9 1.8 these countries. Other post-employment benefit plans Sensitivity retirement plans Discount rate to discount the obligations at year-end 2.4 3.7 Discount rate for pension expense 3.7 3.1 in millions of euros Gross service cost Defined benefit obligations Medical cost trend rate 3.0 3.0 2019 Baseline 19 1,565 Decrease of Increase of Decrease of Increase of Change compared to baseline assumption assumption assumption assumption Discount rate (change by 1%) +7 (5) +328 (251) Pension increase rate (change by 0.5%) (2) +3 (115) +131 Inflation increase rate (change by 0.5%) (2) +2 (82) +90 Mortality table (change by one year) n/a +1 n/a +64 Gross service cost represents the annual accrual of therefore differs from the current service cost included in liability due to another year of service, excluding any the calculation of the pension expense. interest or offsetting employee contributions, and 158 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 159 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Sensitivity of the defined benefit obligations (DBO) of retirement plans in the statement of financial position and the Plan liabilities and assets defined benefit expense of the retirement plans in the statement of profit or loss (P&L) Defined benefit Other postThe Netherlands United States United Kingdom retirement plans employment plans 2019 2018 2019 2018 DBO P&L DBO P&L DBO P&L Plan liabilities Discount rate sensitivity P P P n/a P n/a Fair value at January 1 1,415 1,482 75 78 Pension increase sensitivity P P n/a n/a P n/a Settlements (34) – – – Inﬂation rate sensitivity P P n/a n/a P n/a Employer service cost 13 14 3 4 Mortality sensitivity P P P n/a P n/a Interest expense on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 29 30 3 2 Administration costs and taxes 2 1 – – Beneﬁts paid by fund (52) (56) – – Pension rate increases are only applicable for the plans in pension increases, is not greater than the fair value of Benefits paid by employer – – (3) (4) the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Pension plan assets. For 2019, this resulted in a Dutch pension Remeasurement (gains)/losses 179 (65) (2) (8) increases in the Netherlands are related to price inflation. increase assumption of 1.19% compared to 1.03% at Acquired through business combinations – – – 0 However, these increases are conditional and depend on year-end 2018. the funding position of the Dutch pension fund. Pension Contributions by plan participants 3 3 – – increases are therefore capped. The pension increase Since the retirement plans in the United States and the Plan amendments and curtailments – 2 (16) – assumption is based on the liability ceiling approach and United Kingdom are frozen, the service cost is zero and Foreign exchange differences 10 4 1 3 determined as the rate of increase such that the present not sensitive for changes in discount rate, pension Fair value at December 31 1,565 1,415 61 75 value of vested benefits, including the assumed rate of increases, inflation, and longevity. Plan assets Fair value at January 1 1,373 1,433 0 0 Sensitivity of other post-employment plans Settlements (33) – – – Interest income on plan assets 28 29 – – in millions of euros Gross service costs Defined benefit obligations Return on plan assets greater/(less) than discount rate 188 (60) – – 2019 Baseline 1 61 Beneﬁts paid by fund (52) (56) (3) (4) Contributions by employer 16 21 3 4 Change compared to baseline Contributions by plan participants 3 3 – – Discount rate (by -1%) 0 +7 Foreign exchange differences 10 3 – – Discount rate (by +1%) 0 (6) Fair value at December 31 1,533 1,373 0 0 The actual medical cost trend rate in the United States the age of 65, who retired after 1992, are not subject to a Funded status exceeds the applied medical cost trend rate for its main cap, but instead receive an annual Health Reimbursement Deﬁcit/(surplus) at December 31 32 42 61 75 medical plan which is capped at 3% (2018: 3%) according arrangement subsidy based on years of service at Irrecoverable surplus 16 12 – – to the plan rules. The main U.S. medical plan is therefore retirement. Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale Note 9 (1) – – – not sensitive to medical cost increases. Employees over Net liability at December 31 47 54 61 75 Pension expenses Employer service cost 13 14 3 4 Settlement gain (1) – – – Plan amendments and curtailments – 2 (16) – Interest expense on irrecoverable surplus 0 0 – – Interest expense on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 29 30 3 2 Interest income on plan assets (28) (29) – – Administration costs and taxes 2 1 – – Total pension expenses 15 18 (10) 6 Of which included in: Personnel expenses Note 13 14 17 (13) 4 Other ﬁnance (income)/costs Note 15 1 1 3 2 160 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 161 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements In 2019, there was a retiree pension annuity lift-out The group’s employer contributions to be paid to the The actual return on plan assets for the year ended Duration performed on the U.S. pension plan, for the small indefined benefit retirement plans in 2020 are estimated at December 31, 2019, was a gain of €216 million (2018: loss of The liability-weighted duration for the defined benefit plan payment pensions in the plan, affecting approximately €17 million (2019: actual employer contributions of €31 million). The actual returns on plan assets were higher liabilities at year-end is as follows: 1,000 members. The net impact of the annuity lift-out has €16 million; 2018: €21 million). In 2018, the U.S. pension in 2019 compared to 2018, mainly due to higher returns on been recognized as a settlement gain (€1 million) in the fund received an additional contribution by the employer bonds and to a lesser extent shares, and are in line with statement of profit or loss. for an amount of €5 million. market returns. In 2019, the U.S. post-employment medical plan has been In 2019, there was an asset ceiling of €13 million (2018: number of years 2019 2018 closed for future accrual and closed for new entrants from €8 million) in the U.K. pension plan; the surplus is not Retirement plans December 31, 2019. This curtailment of benefits has been recognized as a pension asset as there is no unconditional The Netherlands 18.8 18.2 recognized in the statement of profit or loss as a past right to a refund of this surplus from the U.K. scheme. In United Kingdom 17.2 16.8 service costs gain of €16 million. A small service cost will addition, the U.K. pension fund has a liability in respect of continue to be recognized in the statement of profit or loss, minimum funding requirements of €4 million (2018: United States 12.2 10.9 from 2020 and onwards for members with grandfathered €5 million). benefits. Other post-employment plans Remeasurements United States 9.7 11.5 In 2018, there was a plan amendment of €1.5 million in the The pre-tax cumulative amount of remeasurement gains/ U.K. pension fund following a High Court Decision relating losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive to equalization of member benefits for the gender effects income is as follows: Duration is an indicator of the plan liabilities’ sensitivity Investment mix of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (“GMP equalization”). for changes in interest rates. The breakdown of plan assets as of December 31 is as follows: Remeasurements 2019 Quoted Unquoted 2018 Quoted Unquoted 2019 2018 Equity Position at January 1 (162) (174) Equity 405 405 – 326 326 – Recognized in other comprehensive income 8 12 Private equity 4 – 4 6 – 6 Cumulative amount at December 31 (154) (162) Bonds Remeasurement gains/(losses) for the year Government bonds 486 486 – 450 450 – Corporate bonds 414 413 1 419 419 – 2019 2018 Remeasurement gains/(losses) due to experience adjustments 6 22 Other Remeasurement gains/(losses) due to changes in demographic assumptions 47 13 Insurance contracts 71 – 71 62 – 62 Remeasurement gains/(losses) due to changes in ﬁnancial assumptions (230) 38 Real estate 95 47 48 93 46 47 Remeasurement gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (177) 73 Derivatives and other 33 33 – 10 9 1 Return on plan asset greater/(less) than discount rate 188 (60) Cash 25 25 – 7 7 – Change in irrecoverable surplus, other than interest and foreign exchange Total 1,533 1,409 124 1,373 1,257 116 differences (3) (1) Recognized gains/(losses) in other comprehensive income 8 12 At December 31, 2019, 92% of the plan assets relate to include any property or other assets used by the group. quoted ﬁnancial instruments (2018: 92%). Plan assets do However, pension plans invest in index funds and as a Experience adjustments result from changes, such as such as discount rate, pension rate increase, price not include any direct investments in the group or result these plans may indirectly hold financial changes in plan populations, data corrections, and increases, and future salary and benefit levels. financial instruments issued by the group, nor do they instruments issued by the group. differences in cash flows. In 2019, there were remeasurement losses mainly due to Proportion of plan assets Changes in demographic assumptions relate to differences financial assumption losses following the decrease in between the current and previous actuarial assumptions in discount rates compared to prior year. In 2018, there were in % 2019 2018 mortality tables, rate of employee turnover, disability, and remeasurement gains mainly due to positive demographic Equity 27 24 early retirement. assumption changes, experience changes in the Bonds 59 63 Netherlands, and relatively higher discount rates Other 14 13 Changes in financial assumptions relate to differences compared to 2017. Total 100 100 between the current and previous actuarial assumptions, 162 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 163 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 32 – Provisions Movements in provisions Restructuring Legal Other 2019 2018* 2019 2018* provisions provisions provisions Provision for restructuring commitments 13 20 Position at January 1 0 8 3 11 3 Provision for acquisition integration 1 0 Add: short-term provisions 20 1 0 21 41 Subtotal restructuring provisions 14 20 Total at January 1 20 9 3 32 44 Legal provisions 9 9 Other provisions 6 3 Movements Total 29 32 Acquired through business Of which short-term 24 21 combinations Note 8 – – – 0 1 * Restated for certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Additions for restructuring of stranded costs Note 8 0 – – 0 1 Additions to acquisition Accounting policies Acquisition integration provision Critical estimates and judgments integration Note 12 0 – – 0 0 A provision is recognized when: (1) the The acquisition integration provision The group is involved in legal and Other additions 16 2 2 20 26 group has a present legal or relates to non-recurring expenses to judicial proceedings in the ordinary Total additions 16 2 2 20 28 constructive obligation because of a be incurred for the integration of course of business. Provisions and past event; (2) it is probable that an activities acquired through business contingencies relating to these Appropriation of provisions (19) (1) 0 (20) (22) outflow of resources in the form of combinations, and mainly consists of matters are periodically assessed economic benefits will be required to expected redundancy payments, IT based on the latest information Release of provisions (3) (1) 0 (4) (19) settle the obligation; and (3) the migration costs, and onerous available, usually after consultation Exchange differences and other amount of the obligation can be contracts. and with the assistance of lawyers movements 0 0 1 1 1 reliably estimated. and other specialists. Total movements (6) 0 3 (3) (12) Legal provisions Restructuring provision For legal and judicial proceedings The actual outcome of a proceeding Total at December 31 14 9 6 29 32 The provisions for restructuring against the company and its or claim may differ from the Less: short-term provisions (14) (8) (2) (24) (21) include liabilities arising from operating entities, a legal provision is estimated liability and consequently Position at December 31 0 1 4 5 11 changes in the organizational recognized only if an adverse may affect the actual result. The structure, integration of activities, outcome is probable and the amount prediction of the outcome and the * Restated for certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. expected redundancy payments, and of the loss can be reliably estimated. assessment of a possible loss by onerous contracts. A provision for If one of these conditions is not met, management are based on Other additions to the restructuring provision of restructuring is recognized only when the proceeding or claim is disclosed management’s judgments and €16 million mainly relate to restructuring programs the general recognition criteria are as a contingent liability, if material. estimates. announced in Legal & Regulatory and Health. Most of met. Redundancy payments are the provisions will be settled within the next 12 months recognized as an expense when the Other provisions Refer to Note 37 – Commitments, (€24 million). The remaining long-term part of the group is demonstrably committed – Other provisions primarily include Contingent Assets, and Contingent provisions (€5 million) is expected to be settled in 2021 without realistic possibility of provisions for dilapidation Liabilities. and beyond. withdrawal – to a formal detailed plan commitments on real estate and to either terminate employment onerous contracts. before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. 164 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 165 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 33 – Capital and Reserves Treasury shares Treasury shares are recorded at cost, representing the The group applies a semi-annual dividend frequency. On market price on the acquisition date. This reserve is not February 20, 2019, the Supervisory Board and Executive Share capital and number of shares share-based incentive schemes. At December 31, 2019, available for distribution. Treasury shares are deducted Board of Wolters Kluwer resolved to distribute an interim The authorized capital amounts to €143.04 million, share buybacks have not yet been executed for an amount from retained earnings. The company will offset the dividend of €0.39 per share, equal to 40% of prior year’s consisting of €71.52 million in ordinary shares (596 million of €50 million under the existing mandate. dilution of its performance share issuance annually via dividend (2018 interim dividend: 40% of prior year's of ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.12 per share repurchases. dividend). The interim dividend was paid on September ordinary share) and €71.52 million in preference shares Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of 19, 2019. Subject to the approval of the Annual General (596 million of preference shares with a nominal value of ordinary shares are recognized as a deduction from In 2019, the company executed a share buyback of Meeting of Shareholders, a ﬁnal dividend of €0.79 per €0.12 per preference share). equity, net of any tax effects. €350 million (2018: €550 million). The company ordinary share will be paid in cash on May 20, 2020. repurchased 5.5 million (2018: 11.5 million) of ordinary Ordinary shares Preference shares shares under this program at an average stock price of The company has a progressive dividend policy under The issued share capital consists of ordinary shares. Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is €63.80 (2018: €47.81). In 2019, the company used 1.0 million which the company expects to increase the total dividend On September 27, 2019, Wolters Kluwer completed the non-redeemable, or redeemable only at the company’s shares held in treasury for the vesting of the LTIP grant per share each year. reduction in ordinary share capital approved by option, and any dividends are discretionary. There are no 2016-18. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of preference shares issued. Free distributable reserves Shareholders held on April 18, 2019. In 2019, the company Legal reserve participations The share premium reserve, retained earnings, and cancelled 6,700,707 ordinary shares previously held as Repurchase and reissue of share capital (treasury shares) Legal reserve participations contain appropriations of undistributed profit for the year are available for dividend treasury shares (2018: 10,600,000 ordinary shares were When share capital recognized as equity is repurchased profits of group companies, which are allocated to a legal distribution. cancelled). Therefore, in 2019, the total number of issued (treasury shares), the amount of the consideration paid, reserve based on statutory and/or legal requirements. ordinary shares is reduced to 273,016,153, with a nominal including directly attributable costs, is recognized as a This includes reserves carried in respect of amounts Option preference shares value of €33 million (2018: 279,716,860 shares, with a change in equity. capitalized for development cost. The legal reserve is not The company has granted an option to purchase nominal value of €34 million). available for distribution. preference shares to the Wolters Kluwer Preference For a reconciliation of the weighted-average number of Shares Foundation (Stichting Preferente Aandelen Wolters Shares repurchased by the company are added to and shares and earnings per share, see Note 7 – Earnings per Hedge reserve Kluwer). The dividend on these shares would equal a held as treasury shares. Part of these treasury shares is Share. Hedge reserve relates to the effective portion of the normal market rate of return, based on a weighted retained and used to meet future obligations under changes in fair value of the hedging instruments used for average interest rate applied by the European Central cash flow hedging and net investment hedging purposes. Bank. Therefore, the fair value of the option is deemed to The hedge reserve is a legal reserve and not available for be zero. distribution. Number of shares Shareholder’s equity movement schedule Translation reserve For the equity movement schedule, refer to Note 48 in thousands of shares, Number of Minus: number of Total number of ordinary Translation reserve contains foreign exchange differences Shareholders’ Equity. unless otherwise stated ordinary shares treasury shares shares outstanding arising from the translation of the net investments in 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 foreign operations. When a foreign operation is sold, At January 1 279,717 290,317 (8,553) (8,956) 271,164 281,361 accumulated exchange differences that were recorded in Cancellation of shares (6,701) (10,600) 6,701 10,600 0 0 equity prior to the sale are reclassified from equity to Repurchased shares – – (5,487) (11,503) (5,487) (11,503) profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on divestment. The translation reserve is a legal reserve and is not Long-Term Incentive Plan – – 978 1,306 978 1,306 available for distribution. At December 31 273,016 279,717 (6,361) (8,553) 266,655 271,164 Dividends Issued share capital at Dividends are recognized as a liability upon being €0.12 (€‘000) 32,762 33,566 declared. Pursuant to Article 29 of the Articles of Proposed dividend per Association, and with the approval of the Supervisory share (€) 1.18 0.98 Board, a proposal will be submitted to the Annual General Proposed dividend Meeting of Shareholders to make a total distribution of distribution (€‘000) 314,653 265,740 €1.18 per share over financial year 2019 (dividend over ﬁnancial year 2018: €0.98 per share). 166 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 167 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 34 – Share-based Payments Key assumptions to the TSR shares LTIP 2019-21 LTIP 2018-20 Accounting policies shares. The amount recognized as an opening share price of the Wolters Share price at grant date (in €) 51.66 43.48 The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) expense is adjusted for the actual Kluwer shares of the year of the grant, Expected volatility 18% 20% qualifies as an equity-settled forfeitures due to participants’ adjusted by the present value of the Expected life 3 years 3 years share-based payments transaction. resignations before the vesting date. future dividend payments during the Annual dividend increase 12.5% 5.6% Executive Board members and senior three-year performance period. management are awarded shares TSR condition Risk-free interest rate (yield on three-year Dutch government bonds) 0.0% 0.0% under the LTIP with performance The fair value of the shares based on The amount recognized as an expense conditions based on Diluted Earnings the TSR performance condition, a in each year is adjusted to reflect the Fair value summary of conditionally awarded LTIP shares management of the group, as determined by an external per Share (EPS) at constant currencies market condition under IFRS 2, is number of share awards for which the The fair value of each conditionally awarded share under consulting firm, is as follows: and Total Shareholder Return (TSR). measured using a Monte Carlo related service and non-market the running LTIP grants for the Executive Board and senior simulation model, considering the performance conditions are expected The fair value of shares awarded is terms and conditions upon which the to be met, such that the amount recognized as an expense with a shares were awarded. ultimately recognized as an expense in euro Fair value Fair value EPS shares TSR shares corresponding increase in equity. The is based on the number of awards at grant date at grant date fair value is measured at the grant EPS condition that meet the related service and LTIP 2019-21 48.18 35.12 date and spread over the period The fair value of the shares based on non-market conditions at the vesting during which the employees become the non-market performance date. LTIP 2018-20 40.72 30.00 unconditionally entitled to the condition of EPS is equal to the LTIP 2017-19 31.90 23.42 Long-Term Incentive Plan period of the LTIP is three years, at the beginning of which The fair values of the conditionally awarded shares under conditional base number of shares awarded to the General a base number of shares (norm payout) is conditionally the LTIP 2019-21 grants increased compared to the previous Executive Board and senior management. The EPS-related For the Executive Board, the LTIP awards depend partially awarded to each beneficiary. year, mainly because of the higher share price of Wolters shares resulted in a payout of 150%. on the TSR performance (50% of the value of the Kluwer at January 1, 2019, compared to January 1, 2018. conditionally awarded rights on shares) and partially on The expense of the TSR-related LTIP is recognized ratably A total of 977,590 shares were released on February 21, the EPS performance (50% of the value of the conditionally in profit or loss over the performance period. Actual LTIP 2016-18 2019. At that date, the volume-weighted average price of awarded rights on shares). awards at the end of the performance period will range The LTIP 2016-18 vested on December 31, 2018. Total Wolters Kluwer N.V. was €57.40. from 0% to 150% of the norm payout. Shareholder Return (TSR) ranked third relative to the peer For senior management, the LTIP awards depend partially group of 15 companies, resulting in a payout of 125% of the on the TSR performance (50% of the conditionally awarded There will be no payout for the Executive Board and senior rights on shares) and partially on the EPS performance management if the group ends below the eighth position in (50% of the conditionally awarded rights on shares). the TSR ranking, while other payouts will be made as LTIP 2016-2018: number of shares vested and the cash equivalent thereof follows: 150% for first or second position, 125% for third or The TSR-related LTIP awards for the Executive Board and fourth position, 100% for fifth or sixth position, and 75% for number of shares Outstanding Increase in Increase in Payout/ Cash value unless otherwise stated at December 31, conditional conditional vested shares vested shares * senior management are based on the same payout seventh or eighth position. 2018 number of TSR number of EPS December 31, schedules. shares (25%) shares (50%) 2018 Conditionally awarded EPS-related LTIP shares In 2019, €25 million has been recognized within personnel The amount recognized as an expense in a year is adjusted Executive Board 195,246 28,253 41,118 264,617 15,188 expenses in proﬁt or loss (2018: €22 million) related to the to reflect the number of share awards for which the related Senior management 518,488 64,828 129,657 712,973 40,925 total cost of the LTIP grants for 2017-19, 2018-20, and service and non-market performance conditions are Total 713,734 93,081 170,775 977,590 56,113 2019-21, see Note 13 – Personnel Expenses. expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately * Cash value in thousands of euros; calculated as the number of shares vested multiplied by the volume weighted average price on recognized as an expense is based on the number of February 21, 2019. Conditionally awarded TSR-related LTIP shares awards that meet the related service and non-market For the conditional TSR awards that were awarded up to conditions at the vesting date. For the EPS-related shares, and including 2019, the payout of shares after three years there will be no payout if the performance over three years fully depends on the group’s TSR relative to a pre-defined is less than 50% of the target. In case of overachievement group of 15 peer companies. Vesting of these conditional of the target, the Executive Board members and senior grants is subject to the condition that the participant stays management can earn up to a maximum of 150% of the with the group until the plan’s maturity. The performance conditionally awarded shares. 168 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 169 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements LTIP 2017-19 Note 35 – Related Party Transactions The LTIP 2017-19 vested on December 31, 2019. On Total The shares will be released on February 27, 2020. The Shareholder Return (TSR), Wolters Kluwer ranked third volume weighted average price for the shares released relative to its peer group of 15 companies, resulting in a will be based on the average exchange prices traded on The company has a related party relationship with its For transactions with key management, refer to Note 38 payout of 125% of the conditional base number of shares the Euronext Amsterdam N.V. on February 27, 2020, the subsidiaries, equity-accounted investees, the pension – Remuneration of the Executive Board and Supervisory awarded to the Executive Board and senior management. ﬁrst day following the company’s publication of its annual funds, and members of the Supervisory Board and the Board and the Remuneration Report. The EPS-related shares resulted in a payout of 150%. results. Executive Board. The group has no significant transactions or outstanding Wolters Kluwer N.V. has filed a list of the subsidiaries at the balances with its equity-accounted investees other than Number of performance shares outstanding, corrected for the actual performance of the respective LTIP grants Dutch Commercial Register in The Hague, the Netherlands. its equity-interest holdings. Related party transactions are conducted at arm’s length, LTIP 2017-19 with terms comparable to transactions with third parties. number of shares Total EPS-condition TSR-condition Total grant 760,967 366,742 394,225 Forfeited in previous years (74,726) (37,363) (37,363) Note 36 – Audit Fees Shares outstanding at January 1, 2019 686,241 329,379 356,862 Forfeited during the year (26,840) (13,420) (13,420) With reference to Section 2:382a (1) and (2) of the Dutch is not involved in most of the statutory audits of operating Effect of 150% vesting based on EPS ranking 158,030 158,030 – Civil Code, the following fees for the financial year have companies that are outside the scope of the group audit. Effect of 125% vesting based on TSR ranking 85,878 – 85,878 been charged by Deloitte Accountants B.V. to the company, Vested at December 31, 2019 903,309 473,989 429,320 its subsidiaries, and other consolidated entities. Deloitte LTIP 2018-20 Audit fees 2019 base number of shares at 100% payout Total EPS-condition TSR-condition in millions of euros Deloitte Accountants B.V. Other Deloitte member Total Deloitte firms and affiliates Conditionally awarded grant 2018 611,122 294,775 316,347 Statutory audit of annual accounts 0.8 2.3 3.1 Forfeited in previous years (8,754) (4,377) (4,377) Other assurance services 0.0 0.0 0.0 Shares outstanding at January 1, 2019 602,368 290,398 311,970 Tax advisory services – 0.0 0.0 Forfeited during the year (23,497) (11,748) (11,749) Other non-audit services – 0.1 0.1 Shares outstanding at December 31, 2019 578,871 278,650 300,221 Total 0.8 2.4 3.2 LTIP 2019-21 Audit fees 2018 base number of shares at 100% payout Total EPS-condition TSR-condition Conditionally awarded grant 2019 563,283 272,172 291,111 in millions of euros Deloitte Accountants B.V. Other Deloitte member Total Deloitte firms and affiliates Forfeited during the year (2,094) (1,047) (1,047) Statutory audit of annual accounts 0.8 2.1 2.9 Shares outstanding at December 31, 2019 561,189 271,125 290,064 Other assurance services 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax advisory services – 0.1 0.1 Overview of outstanding performance shares: LTIP 2019-21 and LTIP 2018-20 Other non-audit services – 0.1 0.1 Total 0.8 2.3 3.1 base number of shares at 100% payout LTIP 2019-21 LTIP 2018-20 Total Conditionally awarded grant 2018 611,122 611,122 Forfeited in previous years (8,754) (8,754) The audit fees for 2019 and 2018 include final invoicing with respect to the statutory audits of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Shares outstanding at January 1, 2019 602,368 602,368 Conditionally awarded grant 2019 563,283 563,283 Forfeited during the year (2,094) (23,497) (25,591) Shares outstanding at December 31, 2019 561,189 578,871 1,140,060 170 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 171 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 37 – Commitments, Contingent Assets, and Contingent Note 38 – Remuneration of the Executive Board Liabilities and Supervisory Board Guarantees Remuneration Executive Board The group has the following outstanding guarantees at December 31: The table below provides the total compensation of the Executive Board recognized in the statement of profit or 2019 2018 loss: Bank credit facilities 199 196 Parental performance guarantees to third parties 13 13 in thousands of euros 2019 2018 Guarantee to the trustees of the U.K. retirement plan Note 31 21 20 Fixed compensation: Other guarantees (mainly real estate) 20 19 Salary 2,047 1,928 Royalty guarantees to health societies 4 2 Social security 44 109 Total 257 250 Contribution defined contribution plan 96 80 Other benefits 459 534 Total fixed compensation 2,646 2,651 Of the guarantees issued for bank credit facilities on Legal and judicial proceedings behalf of several subsidiaries, €2 million have been The group is involved in legal and judicial proceedings in Variable compensation: utilized (2018: €2 million). the ordinary course of business. Provisions and STIP 2,367 2,434 contingencies relating to these matters are periodically Contingent assets assessed based upon the latest information available, LTIP 1 6,100 6,005 The group submitted a claim to its insurance company usually with the assistance of lawyers and other Total variable compensation 8,467 8,439 with respect to business losses incurred during the specialists. While it is not practically possible to estimate remediation of the network and service interruption in the success-rate of claims against the group, the group Subtotal fixed and variable compensation 11,113 11,090 May 2019. It is not practically possible to estimate the has a policy to insure the operating units against such Tax related costs2 1,565 (2,398) financial effect. claims. Total remuneration Executive Board 12,678 8,692 1 LTIP share-based payments are based on IFRS accounting policies and therefore do not reflect the actual payout or value of performance shares released upon vesting. 2 The 2018 tax related costs were negative, mainly due to a refund of payroll taxes of €3,038,776 (relating to the years 2016 and 2017 for Ms. McKinstry). Shares owned by Executive Board members Shares owned by Supervisory Board members At December 31, 2019, the Executive Board jointly held At December 31, 2019, none of the members of the 498,767 shares (2018: 391,274 shares). Supervisory Board owned shares (2018: Mr. Noteboom, retired member of the Supervisory Board, owned Remuneration Supervisory Board 4,865 shares). The total remuneration of the Supervisory Board members was €628 thousand in 2019 (2018: €667 thousand). For further details, refer to the Remuneration Report. 172 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 173 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 39 – Overview of Significant Participations Below is a list of significant participations at December 31, The Netherlands In addition to these significant participations, the group 2019, in alphabetical order (legal entity name and the • eVision Holding B.V. (Legal & Regulatory) has other consolidated entities in the countries listed, and division it belongs to). The group has a 100% interest in all • eVision Industry Software B.V. (Legal & Regulatory) also in the following countries: Austria, Brazil, China, these participations. • Wolters Kluwer Global Business Services B.V. (Global Czech Republic, Denmark, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Business Services) Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Australia • Wolters Kluwer Holding Nederland B.V. (Legal & Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, • Wolters Kluwer Australia Pty Limited (Tax & Accounting) Regulatory) South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, and Ukraine. • Wolters Kluwer International Holding B.V. (Corporate Belgium office) The group has branches in Finland, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, • Wolters Kluwer Belgium NV (Tax & Accounting and Legal • Wolters Kluwer Nederland B.V. (Legal & Regulatory) Thailand, and United Arab Emirates. & Regulatory) • Wolters Kluwer Technology B.V. (Digital eXperience • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Belgium NV Group) Apart from certain cash restrictions, (refer to Note 27 – (Governance, Risk & Compliance) • Wolters Kluwer USA Holding B.V. (Corporate office) Cash and Cash Equivalents), there are no significant restrictions on the group’s ability to access or use assets, Canada United Kingdom and to settle liabilities within these subsidiaries. There are • Wolters Kluwer Canada Limited (Tax & Accounting) • Wolters Kluwer Holdings (UK) PLC (Tax & Accounting) no interests in consolidated structured entities. • Wolters Kluwer (UK) Limited (Tax & Accounting) France Refer to Note 8 – Acquisitions and Divestments for the • Enablon S.A.S. (Legal & Regulatory) United States consequences of losing control of subsidiaries during 2019 • Holding Wolters Kluwer France S.A.S. (Legal & • CCH Incorporated (Tax & Accounting and Legal & and 2018. Regulatory) Regulatory) • Wolters Kluwer France S.A.S. (Legal & Regulatory) • CCH Legal Information Services, Inc. (Governance, Risk & The financial statements of the parent and the Compliance) subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated Germany • C T Corporation System (Governance, Risk & Compliance) financial statements have the same reporting date. • Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH (Legal & Regulatory) • Emmi Solutions, LLC (Health) • Wolters Kluwer Software und Service GmbH (Tax & • Health Language, Inc. (Health) Accounting) • LDI Operations, LLC (Health) • National Registered Agents, Inc. (Governance, Risk & Ireland Compliance) • Wolters Kluwer Finance Ireland DAC (Corporate office) • Ovid Technologies, Inc. (Health) • Wolters Kluwer Ireland Holding Limited (Corporate • Universal Tax Systems, Inc. (Tax & Accounting) office) • UpToDate, Inc. (Health) • Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information, Inc. (Health) Italy • Wolters Kluwer ELM Solutions, Inc. (Governance, Risk & • Tagetik Software S.r.l. (Tax & Accounting) Compliance) • Wolters Kluwer Italy S.r.l. (Tax & Accounting and Legal & • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services, Inc. (Tax & Accounting Regulatory) and Governance, Risk & Compliance) • Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. (Health) Luxembourg • Wolters Kluwer North America, Inc. (Corporate office) • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Luxembourg S.A. • Wolters Kluwer R&D U.S. LP (Digital eXperience Group) (Governance, Risk & Compliance) • Wolters Kluwer United States Inc. (Global Business Services and Corporate office) Poland • Wolters Kluwer U.S. Corporation (Corporate office) • Wolters Kluwer Polska SP. z o.o. (Legal & Regulatory) Spain • Wolters Kluwer España S.A. (Tax & Accounting and Legal & Regulatory) 174 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 175 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 40 – Events after Balance Sheet Date Company Financial Statements The following subsequent events were evaluated up to Management (EHS/ORM) software group, which also 178 Statement of Profit or Loss February 25, 2020, which is the date the consolidated includes Enablon and eVision. The combined offerings will financial statements were authorized for issuance by the enable customers to improve their EHS, ORM, and risk 179 Statement of Financial Position Executive Board and Supervisory Board: performance and to conduct more responsible, productive, and safe operations. On January 15, 2020, Legal & Regulatory announced the completion of the divestment of its Belgian training CGE recorded revenues of €5 million in 2018, mainly from business. software and services. Wolters Kluwer expects the acquisition to achieve a return on invested capital above On February 10, 2020, Legal & Regulatory completed the the group’s after tax weighted average cost of capital (8%) acquisition of 100% of the shares of CGE Risk Management within three to five years of completion. The transaction is Solutions B.V. (CGE), a leading provider of risk management expected to have a positive but immaterial impact on 180 software, including the industry-standard BowTieXP adjusted earnings in its first full year. CGE has solution, for €20 million. There is no deferred and approximately 30 employees, with headquarters in the Notes to the Company Financial contingent consideration. The acquisition will extend Netherlands. CGE has a global customer base with the Wolters Kluwer’s presence in the growing operational risk majority of customers in Europe, North America, and Statements management software market. CGE will become part of the Australia. The group did not yet complete the purchase Environmental, Health & Safety and Operational Risk price allocation calculation. 180 Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies 181 Note 42 – Financial Assets 181 Note 43 – Other Receivables 181 Note 44 – Cash and Cash Equivalents 182 Note 45 – Long-term Debt to Subsidiaries 182 Note 46 – Trade and Other Payables 182 Note 47 – Personnel Expenses 183 Note 48 – Shareholders’ Equity 185 Note 49 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 185 Note 50 – Details of Participating Interests 185 Note 51 – Profit Appropriation 176 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 177 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Statement of Financial Position of Wolters Kluwer N.V. Company Financial Statements in millions of euros and before appropriation of results, at December 31 2019 2018 restated* Non-current assets Financial assets Note 42 6,862 6,182 Deferred tax assets 15 16 Total non-current assets 6,877 6,198 Statement of Profit or Loss of Wolters Kluwer N.V. Current assets Other receivables Note 43 215 310 in millions of euros 2019 2018* Cash and cash equivalents Note 44 285 10 General and administrative costs/(income) (55) (65) Total current assets 500 320 Other operating income/(expense) – 0 Operating profit 55 65 Total assets 7,377 6,518 Financing income third parties 11 11 Equity Financing income related parties 4 13 Issued share capital Note 33 33 34 Financing costs third parties (72) (91) Share premium reserve 87 87 Financing costs related parties (9) (12) Legal reserves 242 182 Total financing results (66) (79) Other reserves 1,349 1,295 Undistributed profit 669 656 Profit/(loss) before tax (11) (14) Shareholders’ equity Note 48 2,380 2,254 Income tax expense (24) (34) Non-current liabilities Proﬁt/(loss) after tax (35) (48) Bonds Note 29 1,629 1,628 Private placements Note 29 163 407 Results from subsidiaries, net of tax Note 42 704 704 Total long-term debt 1,792 2,035 Proﬁt for the year 669 656 Long-term debt to subsidiaries Note 45 0 0 * Restated for IFRS 16. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. Total non-current liabilities 1,792 2,035 Current liabilities Short-term bonds and private placements Note 29 250 – Trade and other payables Note 46 2,955 2,229 Total current liabilities 3,205 2,229 Total liabilities 4,997 4,264 Total equity and liabilities 7,377 6,518 * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. 178 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 179 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Notes to the Comparatives At January 1, 2018, the share buyback commitment of €50 million is reclassified from trade and other payables to In addition, certain minor reclassifications have been made to the comparative statement of financial position and the related notes to conform to the current year Company Financial Statements treasury shares (within other reserves). This resulted in a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity at this date. presentation and to improve insights. These reclassifications have had no impact on the comparative shareholders’ equity and comparative profit for the year. At December 31, 2018, and January 1, 2018, an amount of €34 million is reclassified from retained earnings (within other reserves) to legal reserve participations (within Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies legal reserves). General Note 42 – Financial Assets Unless otherwise indicated, the amounts in these financial statements are in millions of euros. 2019 2018* Accounting policies Equity value of subsidiaries 6,846 6,161 The company financial statements of Wolters Kluwer N.V. statements. These accounting policies are described in Derivative financial instruments Note 29 16 21 are prepared in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Total 6,862 6,182 Book 2, Title 9, with the application of the regulations of company financial statements have also been restated for * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. section 362.8 allowing the use of the same accounting the effect of IFRS 16, with the following impact on the policies as applied for the consolidated financial statement of financial position and profit or loss: Movement equity value of subsidiaries Changes in the Statement of Financial Position 2019 2018* Position at January 1 6,161 5,796 impacted accounts only December 31, 2018, IFRS 16 December 31, 2018, Results from subsidiaries, net of tax 704 704 reported restated Dividends received from subsidiaries (97) (483) Financial assets 6,195 (13) 6,182 Remeasurement gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt plans, net of tax 7 9 Shareholders’ equity 2,267 (13) 2,254 Foreign exchange differences 71 135 Position at December 31 6,846 6,161 Changes in the Statement of Profit or Loss * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. impacted accounts only December 31, 2018, IFRS 16 December 31, 2018, reported restated Note 43 – Other Receivables Results from subsidiaries, net of tax 705 (1) 704 Profit for the year 657 (1) 656 Subsidiaries are valued using the equity method, applying For the following disclosures reference is made to the 2019 2018 the IFRS accounting policies as endorsed by the European notes to the consolidated financial statements: Receivables from subsidiaries 209 307 Union. • Note 29 – Long-term Debt; Derivative financial instruments Note 29 2 0 • Note 33 – Capital and Reserves; Current income tax assets 2 – The company shall, upon identification of a credit loss on • Note 34 – Share-based Payments; Miscellaneous receivables and prepayments 2 3 an intercompany loan and/or receivable, eliminate the • Note 35 – Related Party Transactions, including loans, Total 215 310 carrying amount of the intercompany loan and/or advances and guarantees to the Executive Board and receivable for the value of the identified credit loss. Supervisory Board; • Note 38 – Remuneration of the Executive Board and Any related party transactions between Wolters Kluwer Supervisory Board; Note 44 – Cash and Cash Equivalents N.V. and subsidiaries, associates, investments, or with • Note 39 – Overview of Significant Participations; and members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive • Note 40 – Events after Balance Sheet Date. Board, are conducted at arm’s length, with terms Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and comparable to transactions with third parties. on demand deposits that are readily convertible into cash. There is no restricted cash. 180 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 181 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Note 45 – Long-term Debt to Subsidiaries Note 48 – Shareholders’ Equity Long-term debt to subsidiaries consists of intercompany of the long-term debt to subsidiaries is as follows: Legal reserves Other reserves loans with interest at market-based rates. The movement Treasury shares Share premium Hedge reserve Issued share Legal reserve Undistributed Shareholders’ Translation 2019 2018 Retained Position at January 1 0 539 capital reserve participations reserve earnings profit equity* Redemptions (274) Balance at January 1, 2018, as originally Reclassification to current liabilities (254) reported 35 87 108 (114) 26 (247) 1,738 636 2,269 Foreign exchange differences 0 (11) Effect of change in accounting policy (IFRS 16) (12) (12) Position at December 31 0 0 Restated balance at January 1, 2018 35 87 108 (114) 26 (247) 1,726 636 2,257 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the statement of profit or loss: Note 46 – Trade and Other Payables Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations* 134 134 Exchange differences on translation of 2019 2018* equity-accounted investees 1 1 Debts to subsidiaries 2,246 1,439 Cost of hedging – changes in fair value (4) (4) Euro Commercial Paper program 200 – Net gains/(losses) on hedges of net Multi-currency rollover facility – 144 investments in foreign operations (8) (8) Bank overdrafts 458 595 Effective portion of changes in fair value of Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Note 29 – 0 cash ﬂow hedges 23 23 Interest payable 32 32 Net change in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges reclassiﬁed to the statement of proﬁt or loss (10) (10) Other liabilities 19 19 Tax on other comprehensive income 0 0 Total 2,955 2,229 Items that will not be reclassified to the * Restated for certain reclassifications. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. statement of profit or loss: Remeasurements on deﬁned beneﬁt plans 12 12 Note 47 – Personnel Expenses Tax on other comprehensive income (4) (4) Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax* 1 135 8 144 2019 2018 Proﬁt for the year* 656 656 Salaries and wages 30 29 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the Social security charges 4 (1) year 1 135 8 656 800 Appropriation of proﬁt previous year 636 (636) 0 Costs of deﬁned contribution plans 0 0 Transactions with owners of the company, Expenses related to deﬁned beneﬁt plans 1 1 recognized directly in equity: Equity-settled share-based payment transactions Note 34 25 22 Share-based payments 22 22 Total 60 51 Cancellation of shares (1) 419 (418) 0 Release LTIP shares 55 (55) 0 Employees Final cash dividend 2017 (181) (181) In full-time equivalents at December 31 152 146 Interim cash dividend 2018 (94) (94) Thereof employed outside the Netherlands 39 39 Repurchased shares (550) (550) In full-time equivalents average per annum * 152 147 Other movements 26 (26) 0 * Average full-time equivalents per annum include temporary help and contractors, whereas full-time equivalents at December 31 Balance at December 31, 2018 34 87 134 (113) 161 (323) 1,618 656 2,254 only relate to staff on the payroll of the company. * Restated for IFRS 16 and certain reclassifications. See Note 41 – Significant Accounting Policies. 182 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 183 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Legal reserves Other reserves Note 49 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Share premium Hedge reserve Issued share Legal reserve Undistributed Shareholders’ Translation Treasury Retained Guarantees reserve Dutch Commercial Register for the district in which the capital participations reserve shares earnings proﬁt equity Pursuant to section 403 of the Dutch Civil Code, Book 2, legal entity respective to the liability has its registered Balance at January 1, 2019 34 87 134 (113) 161 (323) 1,618 656 2,254 the company has assumed joint and several liability for office. the debts arising out of the legal acts of several subsidiaries in the Netherlands. The relevant declarations The company has the following outstanding guarantees at Items that are or may be reclassified have been filed with and are open for inspection at the December 31: subsequently to the statement of profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of 2019 2018 foreign operations 71 71 Bank credit facilities 199 196 Exchange differences on translation of Parental performance guarantees to third parties 13 13 equity-accounted investees 0 0 Guarantee to the trustees of the U.K. retirement plan 21 20 Net gains/(losses) on hedges of net investments in foreign operations (4) (4) Total guarantees outstanding 233 229 Cost of hedging – changes in fair value (5) (5) Of the guarantees issued for the bank credit facilities on At December 31, 2019, share buybacks have not yet been Effective portion of changes in fair value of behalf of several subsidiaries, €2 million have been executed for an amount of €50 million under the existing cash ﬂow hedges (4) (4) utilized (2018: €2 million). The company forms part of a mandate. Net change in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges Dutch fiscal unity and pursuant to standard conditions reclassiﬁed to the statement of proﬁt or loss (5) (5) has assumed joint and several liability for the tax Tax on other comprehensive income 2 0 2 liabilities of the fiscal unity. Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of profit or loss: Remeasurements on deﬁned beneﬁt plans 8 8 Tax on other comprehensive income (2) (2) Note 50 – Details of Participating Interests Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax (16) 71 6 61 A list of subsidiaries and affiliated companies, prepared Netherlands. An overview of significant participations is Proﬁt for the year 669 669 in accordance with the relevant legal requirements (Dutch included in Note 39 – Overview of Significant Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the Civil Code, Book 2, Part 9, Section 379) is filed at the offices Participations. year (16) 71 6 669 730 of the Chamber of Commerce of The Hague, the Appropriation of proﬁt previous year 656 (656) 0 Transactions with owners of the company, recognized directly in equity: Share-based payments 25 25 Note 51 – Profit Appropriation Cancellation of shares (1) 343 (342) 0 Release LTIP shares 51 (51) 0 2019 2018 Final cash dividend 2018 (174) (174) Interim cash dividend 2019 (105) (105) Proposed cash distribution 315 266 Repurchased shares (350) (350) Other movements 5 (5) 0 At the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Balance at December 31, 2019 33 87 139 (129) 232 (279) 1,628 669 2,380 Wolters Kluwer will propose a ﬁnal dividend distribution of €0.79 per share, to be paid in cash on May 20, 2020. This will bring the total dividend for 2019 to €1.18 per share, The legal reserves and treasury shares reserve are not an increase of 20% over the prior year. available for dividend distribution to the owners of the company. 184 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 185 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Authorization for Issuance Other Information on the Alphen aan den Rijn, February 25, 2020 Financial Statements Executive Board Supervisory Board N. McKinstry, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board F.J.G.M. Cremers, Chairman K.B. Entricken, CFO and Member of the Executive Board D.R. Hooft Graafland, Vice-Chairman Independent Auditor's Report B.J.F.X. Bodson J.A. Horan C.F.H.H. Vogelzang To the shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Wolters The company financial statements comprise: A.E. Ziegler Kluwer N.V. 1. The company statement of financial position as at December 31, 2019; Report on the audit of the financial statements for the 2.The company statement of profit or loss for the year year ended December 31, 2019, included in the 2019 ended December 31, 2019; and Annual Report. 3.The notes to the company financial statements comprising a summary of the significant accounting Our opinion policies and other explanatory information. We have audited the accompanying financial statements Basis for our opinion for the year ended December 31, 2019, of Wolters Kluwer N.V., based in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands. The We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, financial statements include the consolidated financial including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our statements and the company financial statements as set responsibilities under those standards are further out on pages 81 to 186 of the 2019 Annual Report. described in the section Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in the auditor's report. In our opinion: We are independent of Wolters Kluwer N.V. in accordance • The accompanying consolidated financial statements with the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding give a true and fair view of the financial position of statutory audits of public-interest entities, the Wet Wolters Kluwer N.V. as at December 31, 2019, and of its toezicht accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms result and its cash flows for the year ended December supervision act), the Verordening inzake de 31, 2019, in accordance with International Financial onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceReporting Standards as adopted by the European Union opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional (IFRS-EU) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence), Code; and and other relevant independence regulations in the • The accompanying company financial statements give a Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the true and fair view of the financial position of Wolters Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants Kluwer N.V. as at December 31, 2019, and of its result for (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). the year ended December 31, 2019, in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The consolidated financial statements comprise: 1. The consolidated statement of financial position as at Materiality December 31, 2019; Based on our professional judgment, we determined the 2.The following statements for the year ended December materiality for the financial statements as a whole at 31, 2019: the consolidated statement of profit or loss €50 million. The materiality is based on 5.8% of profit and the consolidated statements of comprehensive before tax (2018: 5.6%). We have also taken into account income, changes in total equity, and cash flows; and misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our 3.The notes to the consolidated financial statements opinion are material for the users of the financial comprising a summary of the ,significant accounting statements for qualitative reasons. policies and other explanatory information. 186 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 187 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Materiality overview planning, reviewed the work performed by component Audit coverage Consideration of fraud auditors (in North America, Germany, Italy, and France), In identifying fraud risks, we assessed fraud risk factors, and assessed and discussed the results and findings with which we discussed with management, those charged the component auditors during conference calls and site with governance, and others within the group. Fraud risk Materiality for the financial Audit coverage of consolidated revenues 81% visits. The component auditors conducted work for factors are events or conditions that indicate an incentive statements as a whole €50 million Audit coverage of consolidated operating 98% components in three key geographical segments (the or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to Basis for materiality 5.8% of profit before tax profit Netherlands, Europe, and North America). In the current commit fraud. Based on the auditing standards, we Threshold for reporting year, the group engagement team visited certain Audit coverage of consolidated total assets 91% considered the following presumed fraud risk relevant to misstatements €2.5 million components in several geographical segments. our audit: Fraud risk in relation to management override By performing the procedures mentioned above at of controls. Audits of the group entities (components) were The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures components, together with additional procedures at performed using materiality levels determined by the and a number of central accounting and/or reporting items group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and Furthermore, we identified and considered the following judgment of the group engagement team, taking into were audited by the group engagement team. These items appropriate audit evidence about the group's and other fraud risks, which could have a material impact on account the materiality of the financial statements as a include impairment testing on goodwill and acquired company's financial information to provide an opinion on the financial statements: whole and the reporting structure within the group. identifiable intangible assets, the acquisition and the consolidated financial statements. • Risk related to significant complex new and/or amended Component materiality did not exceed €19.25 million. divestment of certain assets and businesses, group revenue contracts, including multiple-element accounting for current and deferred income taxes, shareScope of fraud and non-compliance with laws and arrangements, in determining the correct revenue We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements based payments, and critical accounting positions subject regulations recognition pattern in accordance with IFRS 15; and in excess of €2.5 million, which are identified during the to management estimates. Specialists were involved among In accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, we are • Revenue transactions which may be subject to manual audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller other in the areas of information technology, accounting responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the adjustments outside the fulfillment system. misstatements that in our view must be reported on and reporting, pensions, and valuation. financial statements as a whole are free from material qualitative grounds. misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, taking into Our audit procedures to respond to fraud risks include, As part of our year-end audit procedures, we have account the applicable legal and regulatory framework. among other, an evaluation of the internal controls Scope of the group audit considered our assessment of significant group entities in relevant to mitigate these fraud risks and supplementary order to ensure we have obtained appropriate coverage Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an substantive audit procedures, including details testing of Wolters Kluwer N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. of the risks of material misstatement for significant unavoidable risk that some material misstatements in the journal entries and supporting documentation in relation The financial information of this group is included in the account balances, classes of transactions, and financial statements may not be detected, even though the to post-closing adjustments. Data analytics, including consolidated financial statements of Wolters Kluwer N.V. disclosures that we have identified. audit is properly planned and performed in accordance analyses for high risk journals, are part of our audit with the auditing standards. Also, we are not responsible approach to address fraud risks, which could have a Our group audit mainly focused on significant group In summary, we as the group engagement team have: for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to material impact on the financial statements. entities. Our assessment of entities that are significant to • Performed procedures at a group level on the detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations. the group was done as part of our audit planning and was centralized key audit matters; We refer to the audit procedures as described in the aimed to obtain sufficient coverage of the risks of • Performed audit procedures on the company financial The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to separate section Our key audit matters below in material misstatement for significant account balances, statements of Wolters Kluwer N.V.; fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud addressing fraud risks in connection with revenue classes of transactions, and disclosures that we have • Used the work of Deloitte component auditors, or may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, recognition and potential management override on identified. In addition, we considered qualitative factors performed specific audit procedures ourselves, when misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. specific estimates, such as the valuation of goodwill and as part of our assessment. In establishing the overall auditing the components in the Netherlands (5), Europe Our audit procedures differ from those performed as part acquired identifiable intangible assets and the accounting group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of (10), and North America (10) and used the work of of a specific forensic investigation, which often has a for income tax positions. work that needed to be performed at the components by non-Deloitte component auditors in Europe (1) and in more in-depth scope. the group engagement team and by the component the Netherlands (1); and In determining the audit procedures, we made use of the Consideration of laws and regulations auditors. We responded to changes relevant to the group • Performed analytical procedures at group level on the evaluation of management in relation to management’s We assessed factors related to the risks of non-compliance in 2019, in determining the components in our scope and other group entities. fraud risk assessment, respectively management’s with laws and regulations that could reasonably be the nature of procedures to be performed. This resulted assessment of the risk of non-compliance with laws and expected to have a material impact on the financial in one additional component in Europe being in scope The group entities, subject to full-scope audits and audits regulation (prevention, detection, and response), statements as a whole from industry experience, through following its acquisition in the prior year. One component of specified account balances and classes of transactions, including ethical standards to create a culture of honesty. discussions with management, and through inspection of was no longer in scope due its decreased (financial) comprise approximately 81% of consolidated revenues, We have exercised professional judgment and have selected documents regarding compliance with laws and relevance to the group. Where the work was performed by approximately 98% of consolidated operating profit, and maintained professional skepticism throughout our audit regulations. component auditors, we determined the level of approximately 91% of consolidated total assets. For the in identifying and assessing the risks of material involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those remaining entities, we performed a combination of misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud, The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the components to be able to conclude whether sufficient specific audit procedures and analytical procedures at designing and performing audit procedures responsive to financial statements varies considerably. and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a group level relating to the risks of material misstatement those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a for significant account balances, classes of transactions, and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Firstly, the company is subject to laws and regulations whole. Substantially, all component auditors are Deloitte and disclosures that we have identified. that directly affect the financial statements, including member firms. The group engagement team directed the 188 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 189 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Key audit matter How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit corporate tax laws and financial reporting regulations compliance throughout the audit. Furthermore, we and requirements under Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil performed corroborative inquiry with the group legal Revenue recognition The revenue recognition testing procedures performed on existing contracts were Code. We assessed the compliance with these laws and counsel and the internal audit department. Finally, we focused on manual adjustments, which could impact the accuracy, occurrence, and regulations as part of our procedures on the related obtained written representations that all known Revenue recognition resulting from sales transactions cut-off of recorded revenue especially around period-end. We obtained an may be subject to manual adjustments outside the understanding of the revenue processes and tested design and implementation of consolidated financial statements. instances of (suspected) non-compliance with laws and fulfillment systems. There is a risk of material controls in place, including segregation of duties, relevant to our audit. regulations have been disclosed to us. misstatement that these revenue adjustments are Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and based on non-valid, inaccurate, and improper period Analytical reviews were performed by segment, product category, and allocation manual journal entries. The group’s revenue regulations where the consequences of non-compliance Our key audit matters geographical location. Manual entries made were challenged with authorized recognition policies are disclosed in Note 6. source documents like contracts, third-party delivery confirmations, and with these laws could have a material effect on amounts customer acceptance forms. and/or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance Key audit matters are those matters that, in our Significant complex new and/or amended revenue through imposing fines or litigation. We identified data and professional judgment, were of most significance to our arrangements may also require careful consideration Component auditors were involved in assessing the accounting methodologies and judgment in determining the correct revenue and revenue recognition policies applied for significant complex new and/or privacy legislation and Dutch stock exchange regulations, audit of the financial statements. We have communicated recognition pattern in accordance with IFRS 15. For such amended contracts, especially for those business units where we deem such as those are most likely to have such an effect. the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key contracts, the group may fail to defer revenue transactions more likely to occur. Revenue, contract assets, and contract audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all recognition, or allocate the incorrect selling price to liabilities were challenged for recognition in accordance with the underlying the different elements in the arrangements in contract, agreement, acceptance, usage, or delivery form, to evaluate proper As required by auditing standards, we performed audit matters discussed. accordance with IFRS 15 requirements, resulting in allocation of the contract value to the different performance obligations and to procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws inaccurate and improper revenue recognition. evaluate the revenue recognition patterns applied. and regulations by inquiring of management, those These matters were addressed in the context of our audit charged with governance, and others within the group of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our Our risk assessment in connection with revenue We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures provided by the group in Note 6. recognition did not change, since the overall product and inspecting correspondence with regulatory opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate portfolio of the group remained materially unchanged Observation authorities. We also inspected lawyers’ letters and opinion on these matters. as compared to the prior year. Our procedures did not identify any significant observations in manual remained alert to indications of (suspected) nonadjustments to revenue and significant complex new and/or amended revenue arrangements. Key audit matter How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit Accounting for complex current and deferred We involved our tax specialists to obtain an understanding of the group’s tax income taxes (including uncertain tax strategy, including current transfer pricing arrangements, royalty agreements, positions) and other agreements. We considered controls in place relevant to the Valuation of goodwill and acquired identifiable We obtained an understanding of the process in place and identified controls in assessments made by management in determining current and deferred the impairment assessment of the group for goodwill and acquired identifiable The group, due to its international and decentralized income tax positions, including uncertain tax positions, and adopted a intangible assets intangible assets as a basis for our mainly substantive audit approach. operating model, has a complex tax structure, mainly in substantive audit approach. The group has €3,990 million of goodwill and We obtained management’s impairment assessment and have evaluated the North America and Europe. €1,130 million of acquired identifiable intangible assets impairment models. We involved valuation specialists to assess the models Our audit procedures included the involvement of tax specialists to assess the (December 31, 2018: €3,945 million and €1,274 million used and the key assumptions applied as outlined in Note 18. Our valuation The tax positions taken in the various income tax appropriateness of current and deferred tax positions, including uncertain tax respectively), as disclosed in Note 18. Goodwill and specialists assisted us specifically in challenging the weighted average cost of returns are subject to periodic reviews by local tax positions, from a tax accounting perspective, both at group level and local level acquired identifiable intangible assets represent 58% capital, the perpetual growth rates, and other rates applied by benchmarking authorities. Insufficient understanding of the local for significant entities. (2018: 61%) of total assets and 215% (2018: 232%) of against independent data and peers in the industry. requirements may result in tax positions that are not total equity. Goodwill is subject to an annual supported by local laws and regulations. New tax laws We analyzed the accounted permanent and temporary differences, (potential) impairment test. We challenged management’s key assumptions used for cash flow projections, and regulations being issued or proposed may also tax risks, legislative developments, and the status of ongoing local tax weighted average cost of capital, and perpetual growth rates. We compared impact the group’s tax positions. The assessment authority audits. We challenged the group’s positions by independently testing The value-in-use of goodwill and acquired identifiable rates in use with historical trends and external data and performed sensitivity process of the group’s current and deferred income tax assumptions and estimates with correspondence from tax authorities, intangible assets is dependent on expected future cash analyses. We reconciled forecasted cash flows per group of CGUs to authorized balances is complex and requires careful consideration historical track records, and tax opinions. flows from the underlying group of Cash Generating budgets and obtained an understanding how these budgets were compiled. For and judgment. Units (“CGUs”) for goodwill and individual CGUs for the individual CGU Health Patient Engagement Solutions, where impairment Contingencies were evaluated for triggers, including new tax laws and new acquired identifiable intangible assets. triggers were identified, these procedures were performed for the individual The current and deferred tax positions, including information in the context of applicable tax laws, or the outcome of CGU. uncertain tax positions, are disclosed in Note 16 and (substantially) completed tax audits, that could result in liabilities for or The impairment assessment prepared by management Note 23. reversals of uncertain tax positions. New income tax positions recognized were includes a variety of internal and external factors, We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures provided by the group in evaluated and discussed with tax experts on compliance with local laws and which represents significant estimates that require the Note 18 in relation to its impairment assessment. regulations and substance requirements. use of valuation models and a significant level of We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure on the current and deferred management judgment, particularly the assumptions Observations tax positions as included in Note 16 and Note 23. related to the weighted average cost of capital and the Our procedures did not identify material exceptions and we considered perpetual growth rates. management’s key assumptions, the weighted average cost of capital, and the Observation perpetual growth rates, to be within a reasonable range of our own Our audit procedures did not result in material observations in connection with For two individual CGUs, Health Patient Engagement expectations. the group’s tax positions and disclosures as included in Note 16 and 23. Solutions and Tax & Accounting Brazil, the annual impairment assessment resulted in triggers for impairment. The impairment tests performed resulted in an impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets of €38 million as outlined in Note 18 to the financial statements. The sensitivity analysis has been disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements. 190 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 191 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of Key audit matter How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit Description of responsibilities regarding the expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's financial statements Internal controls over financial reporting We have considered the group’s internal controls over financial reporting as a internal control; basis for designing and performing the audit activities that are deemed • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used The group has its businesses in a large number of appropriate for our audit. We are, however, not required to perform an audit on Responsibilities of management for the financial statements and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and countries and locations. The group operates various IT internal controls over financial reporting and accordingly, we do not express an Management is responsible for the preparation and fair related disclosures made by management; systems, processes, and procedures locally that are opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s controls over financial reporting. presentation of the financial statements in accordance with • Concluding on the appropriateness of management's use of important for the continuity of its business operations IFRS-EU and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have tailored our audit procedures to the diverse (local) IT landscapes and the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the and for the reliability of its financial reporting. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty the implemented internal controls. We have included specialized IT auditors in control as management determines is necessary to enable the exists related to events or conditions that may cast In addition, the group is exposed to IT-related risks and our audit teams to test the reliability and continuity of the automated data cyber threats that could affect their IT infrastructure processing, solely to the extent necessary within the scope of the financial preparation of the financial statements that are free from significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a and system availability, applications, and company and statement audit. Where relevant to the audit, we have tested the operating material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty customer data. effectiveness of (IT) controls and performed additional audit procedures where exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's deemed necessary. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, report to the related disclosures in the financial statements In May 2019, the group detected ransomware in a management is responsible for assessing the company's We also evaluated the consequences of the cyber incident on the reliability of or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. portion of its IT environment. Certain customer and ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained internal applications and platforms were taken offline. the IT environment, compliance with data and privacy laws, and potential reporting frameworks mentioned, management should up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future The group engaged with a leading cybersecurity claims and litigations. For the impact on the IT environment, our evaluation of technology firm to conduct a forensic investigation of the group’s assessment was performed with the assistance of specialists. prepare the financial statements using the going concern events or conditions may cause the company to cease to the incident. basis of accounting, unless management either intends to continue as a going concern; We refer to section Risk Management, where the Internal Control Framework for liquidate the company or to cease operations or has no • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content For more information see page 22 of the 2019 Annual financial reporting is described. realistic alternative but to do so. of the financial statements, including the disclosures; and Report. Observation • Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the Management should disclose events and circumstances that underlying transactions and events in a manner that We have reported our observations on internal controls over financial reporting may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to achieves fair presentation. to the Audit Committee and have performed additional audit procedures where deemed necessary with satisfactory results. continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are company's financial reporting process. also responsible for directing, supervising, and performing the group audit. In this respect, we have determined the Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out Report on the other information included in the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk 2019 Annual Report of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we Management is responsible for the preparation of the audit evidence for our opinion. selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's other information, including the Report of the Executive carried out on the complete set of financial information or Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, specific items. report thereon, the 2019 Annual Report contains other Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch level of assurance, which means we may not detect all information that consists of: Civil Code, and the other information as required by Part 9 material errors and fraud during our audit. We communicated with the Supervisory Board regarding, among • Report of the Executive Board; of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and • Report of the Supervisory Board; Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered significant audit findings, including any significant findings in • Corporate Governance and Risk Management; and Report on other legal and regulatory material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could internal control that we identified during our audit. In this • Other Information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the requirements reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of respect, we also submitted an additional report to the Audit Dutch Civil Code. users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on Engagement materiality affects the nature, timing, and extent of our audit specific requirements regarding statutory audit of publicprocedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified interest entities. The information included in this additional Based on the following procedures performed, we We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of misstatements on our opinion. report is consistent with our opinion in this auditor's report. conclude that the other information: Wolters Kluwer N.V. on April 23, 2014, as from the audit for • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not the year 2015, and have operated as statutory auditor We provided the Supervisory Board with a statement that we We have exercised professional judgment and have have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding contain material misstatements; and ever since that financial year. In the General Meeting of maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in independence, and communicated to them all relationships and • Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 Shareholders on April 19, 2018, we were reappointed for a accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our of the Dutch Civil Code. period of four years for the financial years 2019 through requirements and independence requirements. Our audit independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 2022. included e.g.: We have read the other information. Based on our • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement From the matters communicated to the Supervisory Board, we of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, determined the key audit matters; those matters that were of knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit No prohibited non-audit services designing and performing audit procedures responsive to most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We of the financial statements or otherwise, we have We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient described these matters in our auditor's report, unless law or considered whether the other information contains referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or material misstatements. requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the entities. fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud matter is in the public interest. By performing these procedures, we comply with the may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; Amsterdam, February 25, 2020 the Dutch Standard on Auditing 720. The scope of the • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to Deloitte Accountants B.V. the audit in order to design audit procedures that are B.C.J. Dielissen 192 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 193 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Articles of Association Provisions Governing Profit Appropriation Article 29 of the Articles of Association Paragraph 1 From the profit as it appears on the annual accounts drawn up with observance of valuation methods considered generally acceptable. The statement of assets and liabilities shall include the amounts to be reserved by Other Information adopted by the General Meeting, a dividend shall be virtue of the law. It shall be signed by the Members of the distributed on the preference shares, whose percentage Executive Board; if the signature of one or more of them is – calculated on the paid part of the nominal amount – is lacking this shall be stated with reasons. The statement Report of the Wolters Kluwer Preference Shares Foundation equal to that of the average of the interest rate on Basis of assets and liabilities shall be deposited at the office of Refinancing Transactions (Refi interest of the European the Commercial Register within eight days after the day Central Bank). These are weighted according to the number on which the resolution on distribution is made known. Activities the strategy, continuity, independence, identity, or of days over which this rate of interest applies during the The Board of the Wolters Kluwer Preference Shares coherence between the activities of the company. The financial year over which the dividend was paid, increased Paragraph 7 Foundation met twice in 2019. The matters discussed Foundation is entitled to exercise the option on by a debit interest rate to be determined by the large Dutch If a loss is suffered for any year, that loss shall be included the 2018 full-year results of Wolters Kluwer, the preference shares in such a way that the number of banks and also increased by a margin determined by the transferred to a new account for set-off against future 2019 half-year results, the execution of the strategy, the preference shares taken will be no more than 100% of the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory Board of profits, and for that year no dividend shall be distributed. ﬁnancing of the company, acquisitions and divestments, number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares at the one percentage point (1%) minimum and four percentage Based on the proposal of the Executive Board that has developments in the market, and the general course of time of exercise. Among other by the exercise of the points (4%) maximum. The dividend on the preference been approved by the Supervisory Board, the General events at Wolters Kluwer. Representatives of the option on the preference shares by the Foundation, the shares shall be calculated on an annual basis on the paid Meeting of Shareholders may resolve, however, to delete Executive Board of the company, the chairman of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board will have the part of the nominal amount. If in any financial year the such a loss by writing it off on a reserve that need not be Supervisory Board, and corporate staff attended the possibility to determine their position with respect to, for distribution referred to in the first full sentence cannot be maintained, according to the law. meetings to give the Board of the Foundation information example, a party making a bid on the shares of Wolters made or can only be made in part because the profits are about the developments within Wolters Kluwer. Kluwer and its plans, or with respect to a third party that not sufficient, the deficiency shall be distributed from the Article 30 of the Articles of Association otherwise wishes to exercise decisive inﬂuence, and distributable part of the company’s equity. No further Paragraph 1 The Board of the Foundation also followed developments enables the boards to examine and implement dividend shall be distributed on the preference shares. On the proposal of the Executive Board that has been of the company outside of board meetings, among other alternatives. approved by the Supervisory Board, the General Meeting of through receipt by the board members of press releases. Paragraph 2 Shareholders may resolve that a distribution of dividend As a result, the Board of the Foundation has a good view Composition of the Board of the Wolters Kluwer Preference Subsequently such allocations to reserves shall be made on ordinary shares shall be made entirely or partially not in on the course of events at Wolters Kluwer. The Board of Shares Foundation as the Executive Board shall determine, subject to the money but in ordinary shares in the capital of the company. the Foundation also closely monitored the developments The composition of the Board remained unchanged in approval of the Supervisory Board. with respect to corporate governance and relevant Dutch 2019. Paragraph 2 legislation and discussed that topic during the meetings. Paragraph 3 On the proposal of the Executive Board that has been Furthermore, the ﬁnancing of the Foundation and the The Foundation is a legal entity that is independent from Any balance remaining after that shall be distributed at approved by the Supervisory Board, the General Meeting composition of the Board of the Foundation were the company as stipulated in clause 5:71 (1) sub c of the the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders. of Shareholders may resolve on distributions in money or discussed. The Foundation acquired no preference shares Act on ﬁnancial supervision (Wet op het ﬁnancieel in the manner as referred to in Paragraph 1 to holders of during the year under review. toezicht). All members of the Board of the Foundation are Paragraph 5 ordinary shares against one or more reserves that need independent from the company. Distribution of profit shall be made after adoption of the not be maintained under the law. Exercise of the preference shares option annual accounts showing that it is permitted. Wolters Kluwer N.V. and the Foundation have concluded Alphen aan den Rijn, February 25, 2020 an agreement based on which preference shares can be Paragraph 6 taken by the Foundation. This option on preference Board of Wolters Kluwer Preference Shares Foundation Subject to approval of the Supervisory Board, the shares is at present a measure that could be considered R.P. Voogd, Chairman Executive Board may resolve on distribution of interim as a potential protection at Wolters Kluwer against P. Bouw, Vice-Chairman dividend, provided the requirements of paragraph 4 have exercising inﬂuence by a third party on the policy of the J.H.M. Lindenbergh been met, according to an interim statement of assets company without the consent of the Executive Board and J.S.T. Tiemstra and liabilities. It shall relate to the position of the assets Supervisory Board, including events that could threaten and liabilities no earlier than on the first day of the third month before the month in which the resolution on distribution of interim dividend is made known. It shall be 194 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 195 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Wolters Kluwer Shares and Bonds Dividends innovation and productivity, or for external investment in acquisitions. We balance these factors with the objective Wolters Kluwer ordinary shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam under the symbol WKL. In 2019, the Dividend policy of maintaining a strong balance sheet. average daily trading volume of Wolters Kluwer shares on Euronext Amsterdam was 642,783 shares (2018: For more than 30 years, Wolters Kluwer has increased or 754,864), according to Euronext. Alternative trading venues include the market places operated by Cboe maintained its annual dividend per share in euro (or euro 2019 dividend equivalent). In 2007, the company established a In light of our strong financial position and in view of our Europe Equities, Turquoise, and others. progressive dividend policy. Since 2011, all dividends are expected capital needs for the duration of our current paid in cash following the termination of the stock three-year strategic plan (2019-2021), we are proposing to American Depositary Receipts Share price performance dividend. In 2015, we introduced an interim dividend increase the total dividend per share for financial year 2019 payment, aligning cash distributions closer to our by 20%. We will therefore recommend a final dividend of Wolters Kluwer has a sponsored Level I American Wolters Kluwer shares outperformed the Amsterdam AEX seasonal cash flow pattern. €0.79 per share, bringing the total dividend to €1.18 per Depositary Receipt (ADR) program. The ratio of ADRs to index and several other leading European indices in 2019. share (2018: €0.98). The 2019 final dividend is subject to ordinary shares is 1:1. The ADRs are denominated in U.S. In 2019, the share price increased 26%, beating the EURO Wolters Kluwer is committed to a progressive dividend approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in dollar and are traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) STOXX 600 which was up 23%. The MSCI Europe Commercial policy, under which we aim to increase the dividend per April 2020. For financial year 2020, we intend to maintain securities market in the United States. The ADRs receive & Professional Services index increased 30% in 2019, while share in euro each year, irrespective of currency the interim distribution at 40% of prior year's total the same dividends as the ordinary shares converted into the EURO STOXX Media index increased 6%. Wolters Kluwer fluctuations. The payout ratio can therefore vary from dividend. Assuming the 2019 dividend is approved, this will U.S. dollar at the prevailing €/$ exchange rate. shares closed at €65.02 on December 31, 2019. year to year. Proposed annual increases in the dividend result in a 2020 interim dividend of €0.47 per share. per share take into account our ﬁnancial performance, ADR depositary bank: Deutsche Bank Trust Company Over the ﬁve-year period ending December 31, 2019, market conditions, and our need for ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. Shareholders can choose to reinvest interim and final Americas, c/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, Wolters Kluwer shares have appreciated by 156%, The policy takes into consideration the characteristics of dividends by purchasing additional Wolters Kluwer shares Peck Slip Station, P.O. Box 2050 New York, NY 10272-2050, significantly outperforming the AEX index, which gained our business, our expectations for future cash ﬂows, and through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) United States. 42% over the same period. Wolters Kluwer shares also our plans for organic investment in product development, administered by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. outperformed the EURO STOXX 600, which increased 21% Securities codes and ticker symbols over the same period. The MSCI Europe Commercial & Professional Services sector increased 37% over the same Dividend per share System Ordinary shares ADRs five-year period, while the EURO STOXX Media sector € 1.18 advanced by 3%. 1.20 ISIN NL0000395903 US9778742059 Total 1.10 dividend Sedol 5671519 2977049 The ADR price (quoted in U.S. dollar) has appreciated 138% 0.98 (2019 1.00 Bloomberg WKL:NA WTKWY:US proposed) over the ﬁve years to December 31, 2019, significantly 0.90 0.85 Reuters RIC WLSNc.AS WTKWY outperforming the S&P 500 which rose 57% over that time 0.79 0.80 CUSIP – 977874205 frame. 0.75 0.66 0.67 0.68 0.69 0.70 0.71 0.70 0.64 0.65 Exchange Euronext Over-the-counter (OTC) 0.58 0.60 0.53 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.50 0.50 0.46 Five-year share price performance 2015-2019 Five-year ADR price performance 2015-2019 0.40 0.40 0.34 € U.S. $ 0.39 0.47 0.28 0.30 0.34 70 Wolters Kluwer 80 Wolters Kluwer 0.20 Interim 70 0.10 0.18 0.19 0.20 dividend* 60 0 60 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 50 * Proposed total dividend for 2019 is subject to AGM approval and determines interim dividend for 2020. AEX (rebased) 50 MSCI Europe Comm & 40 Prof Svcs (rebased) 40 30 S&P 500 (rebased) 30 EURO STOXX Media (rebased) 20 20 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Nasdaq/FactSet data. Indices rebased to Wolters Kluwer Source: Nasdaq/FactSet data. Indices rebased to Wolters Kluwer share price. share price. 196 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 197 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Share buyback programs Share capital and market capitalization Since 2012, Wolters Kluwer will offset the dilution caused During 2019, we repurchased 5.5 million shares for a total Shares issued and outstanding by our annual incentive share issuance with share consideration of €350 million, including 1.0 million shares The number of issued ordinary shares on December 31, of ordinary shares used to compute the diluted earnings repurchases (Anti-Dilution Policy). In addition, when to offset incentive share issuance (2018: 1.3 million). On 2019, was 273.0 million, of which 6.4 million were held in per share was 272.2 million in 2019. appropriate, we return capital to shareholders through September 27, 2019, we cancelled 6.7 million of the treasury treasury. The reduction in issued ordinary shares during further share buyback programs. Shares repurchased by shares accumulated as a result of share repurchases during 2019 was due to the cancellation of 6.7 million of shares Market capitalization the company are added to and held as treasury shares. 2018 and 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we held 6.4 million held in treasury on September 27, 2019. During 2019, Based on issued ordinary shares (including 6.4 million Treasury shares are either cancelled or are held to meet shares in treasury. A summary of shares repurchased and 5.5 million shares were repurchased and added to treasury, treasury shares), the market capitalization of Wolters future obligations under share-based incentive plans. cancellations over the past few years is shown below. while 1.0 million shares were released for long-term Kluwer as of December 31, 2019, was €17.8 billion (December incentive plans. The diluted weighted average number 31, 2018: €14.5 billion). Share repurchases and cancellations 2015-2019 Shares issued and outstanding year Shares Total Average Treasury shares Treasury shares repurchased consideration share price cancelled released for LTIP number of shares in millions December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 million € million € million million Issued ordinary shares 273.0 279.7 2019 5.5 350 63.80 6.7 1.0 Treasury shares 6.4 8.6 2018 11.5 550 47.81 10.6 1.3 Issued ordinary shares outstanding 266.7 271.2 2017 7.8 300 38.62 11.6 1.4 2016 5.8 200 34.28 – 1.8 Average during the year: 2019 2018 2015 5.0 140 28.13 – 1.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 270.3 276.7 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 272.2 278.8 Share buyback 2020 On February 26, 2020, we will announce our intention to sustain organic investment in innovation and productivity, spend up to €350 million on share repurchases during and to selective acquisitions. The share repurchases may 2020, including repurchases to offset the annual incentive be suspended, discontinued, or modified at any time. At the share issuance. Assuming global economic conditions do Annual General Meeting in April 2020, we will again propose not deteriorate substantially, we believe this level of cash cancelling any or all treasury shares that are not used for return leaves us with ample headroom to support our share-based incentive plans. dividend plans to Share buybacks € million 700 645 600 550 500 400 350 350 300 300 200 200 140 Intended 135 100 100 19 0 0 0 20 25 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 198 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 199 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Shareholder structure Indices Approximately 87% of the issued ordinary share capital Geographical distribution of Wolters Kluwer shares held by Wolters Kluwer shares are included in many stock market of Wolters Kluwer is held by institutional investors. The institutions indices. Some of the most widely followed indices are remaining shares are held by retail investors, brokershown below. dealers, or are held in treasury by Wolters Kluwer. Nearly United States 37% two-thirds of the shares held by institutional investors Canada 5% Wolters Kluwer weight in selected indices are with ﬁrms that designate themselves as socially United Kingdom 29% responsible (SRI) and approximately 15% are in core France 7% Index Weight % SRI or ESG funds. As of November 2019, approximately Germany 4% AEX 2.87 24% of institutionally-held shares were held in passive, Switzerland 3% Euronext 100 0.59 index, or quant funds. Investors in the United States hold Netherlands 3% EURO STOXX ® 0.39 the largest percentage of institutionally-held shares. Rest of Europe 7% EURO STOXX MEDIA ® 23.07 Approximately 43% of institutionally-owned shares is held Rest of World 5% in North America, 29% in the United Kingdom, and 24% in STOXX® Europe 600 0.20 Source: Nasdaq Corporate Solutions, as of November 30, 2019 Continental Europe. STOXX® Europe 600 Media 9.93 STOXX® Europe 600 ESG-X 0.22 STOXX Global ESG Leaders ® 0.33 Significant shareholders MSCI Europe Commercial & Professional Services 10.02 Shareholders who have notiﬁed the Dutch Authority for the the 3% reporting threshold are shown below. Updates can MSCI World Commercial & Professional Services 3.43 Financial Markets (AFM) of a capital interest exceeding be found on the AFM website (www.afm.nl). Sources: Euronext, STOXX, MSCI, S&P. Weightings as of December 31, 2019. AFM notifications of substantial holdings Institution Capital interest Date of notification Equity research and ESG ratings Lazard Asset Management Company, LLC 5.09% October 24, 2015 Wolters Kluwer is followed by approximately 25 sell-side A diverse range of research firms are publishing ESG FIL Limited 4.93% November 23, 2018 financial analysts, of which, to our knowledge, 18 analysts research and ratings on Wolters Kluwer, based on varying BlackRock, Inc. 4.76% March 15, 2019 are actively publishing recommendations, estimates, and methodologies. A selection of publicly available ratings is Mawer Investment Management Ltd 3.05% November 14, 2017 research. As of February 6, 2020, five of the active analysts shown in the table below. Source: AFM website, as of February 24, 2020 have an outperform rating, while the remainder are neutral or underperform. A list of analysts can be found on the Wolters Kluwer Investor Relations website. Industry classifications Wolters Kluwer has traditionally been classified as a software solutions, and services has led some index ESG analyst ratings publishing company as part of the media industry. The providers to reclassify the company into Research & company’s increased focus on professional information, Consulting Services. Provider 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sustainalytics 98.6 87.3 87.2 92.5 ISS Quality Score 3 3 1 1 Industry classification by main index providers Bloomberg ESG 43.4 40.5 37.2 n/a MSCI ESG Ratings A A AA AAA Main index provider System used Wolters Kluwer Industry Classification (Code) Source: Sustainalytics, ISS, Bloomberg, MSCI. All scores or ratings as of December 31. Bloomberg BICS Technology: Technology Services: Information Services (1814) STOXX, FTSE Russell ICB Consumer Services: Media: Media: Publishing (5557) MSCI, S&P, Dow Jones GICS Industrials: Commercial & Professional Services: Research & Consulting Services (20202020) Source: Bloomberg, FTSE Russell, MSCI, S&P Global, STOXX 200 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 201 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Fixed-income issues Investor Relations Currently, Wolters Kluwer has five Eurobonds or other listed The nominal interest rates on the bonds are fixed until debt securities with a total face value of €1,886 million. redemption. Engagement Investor Relations is focused on helping the market We communicate with our shareholders and other understand our business, our strategy, our markets, as Wolters Kluwer listed fixed-income issues investors through a comprehensive investor relations well as our financial performance. We aim to be responsive program that includes our half-year and full-year financial and proactive and welcome direct feedback from Debt security Due Amount Listing ISIN results releases, our annual report, and other information investors. Wolters Kluwer is committed to a high degree € million published on our investor relations website. We host of transparency in its ﬁnancial reporting and strives to 4.200% private placement December 2020 250 Frankfurt XS0522820801 live webcast presentations of our half-year and full-year be open with its shareholders and the wider investment 2.875% senior bonds March 2023 700 Luxembourg XS0907301260 results, hold an Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, community. 2.500% senior bonds May 2024 400 Luxembourg XS1067329570 and organize periodic investor brieﬁngs. Investor Relations policy 1.500% senior bonds March 2027 500 Luxembourg XS1575992596 We engage through an active schedule of events Wolters Kluwer is strict in its compliance with applicable 6.748% senior bonds August 2028 36 Luxembourg XS0384322656 throughout the year, meetings with investors on roadshows rules and regulations on fair disclosure to shareholders. in key financial centers and at investor conferences. Presentations are posted publicly on the company’s On May 7, 2019, Wolters Kluwer established a Euro flexible funding for short-term cash needs at attractive We held more than 200 one-on-one or group meetings website as and when they are made available to analysts Commercial Paper (ECP) program, under which the rates. The outstanding amount per December 31, 2019, during 2019. The Executive Board met with shareholders and investors. In adherence with fair disclosure rules, company may issue unsecured, short-term debt (ECP is €200 million and included in borrowings and bank representing more than half of our share capital. meetings and presentations do not take place during notes) for a maximum of €1.0 billion. The program provides overdrafts. ‘closed periods’ before the publication of annual and In November 2019, members of the Supervisory Board also quarterly ﬁnancial information. The company does not Commercial Paper held consultative meetings with our largest shareholders assess, comment upon, or correct, other than factually, in Europe and the United States to hear their views on the any analyst report or valuation prior to publication. Type As of Amount Total facility remuneration policy. Opinions and policies on this topic The company is committed to helping investors and € million € million are diverse, but we received constructive feedback which analysts become better acquainted with Wolters Kluwer Euro Commercial Paper (ECP) December 31, 2019 200 1,000 has helped us update our remuneration policy to reflect and its management, as well as to maintain a long-term the evolving nature of the business. For a more extensive relationship of trust with the investment community at discussion, please refer to the Remuneration Report. large. Credit ratings on Wolters Kluwer senior long-term debt Global Ratings for many years. Wolters Kluwer is committed have been provided by Moody’s Investor Services and S&P to maintaining investment grade credit ratings. Financial calendar Credit ratings 2020 Agency Long-term Short-term Outlook Date of rating Date affirmed April 23 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Moody’s Baa1 – Stable September 12, 2013 April 12, 2019 April 27 Ex-dividend date: 2019 final dividend S&P BBB+ A-2 Stable March 7, 2013 May 27, 2019 April 28 Record date: 2019 final dividend Source: Moody’s, S&P Global May 6 First-Quarter 2020 Trading Update May 20 Payment date: 2019 final dividend, ordinary shares May 27 Payment date: 2019 final dividend, American Depositary Shares August 5 Half-Year 2020 Results September 1 Ex-dividend date: 2020 interim dividend September 2 Record date: 2020 interim dividend September 24 Payment date: 2020 interim dividend, ordinary shares October 1 Payment date: 2020 interim dividend, American Depositary Shares October 30 Nine-Month 2020 Trading Update 2021 February 24 Full-Year 2020 Results March 10 Publication of 2020 Annual Report 202 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 203 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Five-Year Key Figures 2019 2018* 2017** 2016 2015 2019 2018* 2017** 2016 2015 Revenues 4,612 4,259 4,368 4,286 4,208 Information per share (€) Operating profit 908 967 830 766 667 Total dividend proposal in cash per share 1.18 0.98 0.85 0.79 0.75 Profit for the year, attributable to owners of the company 669 656 636 489 423 Adjusted EBITDA 1,382 1,274 1,179 1,129 1,073 Basic earnings per share 2.47 2.37 2.23 1.68 1.44 Adjusted operating profit 1,089 986 970 950 902 Adjusted earnings per share 2.92 2.47 2.24 2.12 1.98 Adjusted net financing costs (58) (77) (109) (107) (119) Adjusted free cash flow per share 2.98 2.75 2.62 2.43 2.21 Adjusted net profit 790 682 639 618 583 Adjusted free cash flow 807 762 746 708 647 Based on fully diluted: (Proposed) dividend/cash distribution 315 266 239 227 219 Diluted earnings per share 2.46 2.35 2.21 1.66 1.42 Acquisition spending 34 166 313 450 179 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 2.90 2.45 2.22 2.10 1.96 Capital expenditure 226 214 210 224 188 Diluted adjusted free cash flow per share 2.96 2.73 2.59 2.40 2.18 Amortization of other intangible assets, depreciation of PPE and right-of-use assets, and impairments 293 288 209 179 171 Weighted average number of shares issued (millions) 270.3 276.7 285.1 291.6 293.6 Amortization and impairment of acquired identifiable Diluted weighted average number of shares (millions) 272.2 278.8 287.7 294.6 297.4 intangible assets 182 175 187 181 214 Stock exchange (€) Shareholders’ equity 2,380 2,254 2,228 2,621 2,472 Highest quotation 67.72 55.68 44.80 38.69 33.56 Guarantee equity 2,380 2,254 2,232 2,626 2,477 Lowest quotation 49.98 39.19 34.25 28.24 24.71 Net debt 2,199 2,249 2,069 1,927 1,788 Quotation at December 31 65.02 51.66 43.48 34.42 30.97 Capital employed 4,966 5,013 4,845 5,637 5,329 Average daily trading volume Wolters Kluwer on Euronext Total assets 8,775 8,544 8,477 8,839 8,099 Amsterdam N.V., number of shares (thousands of shares) 643 755 719 912 1,232 Ratios Employees As % of revenues: Headcount at December 31 18,979 18,553 18,830 18,807 18,692 Operating profit 19.7 22.7 19.0 17.9 15.8 In full-time equivalents at December 31 18,361 18,134 18,315 18,318 18,055 Profit for the year, attributable to owners of the company 14.5 15.4 14.6 11.4 10.1 In full-time equivalents average per annum 18,883 18,687 18,982 18,910 19,296 Adjusted EBITDA 30.0 29.9 27.0 26.4 25.5 * Restated for IFRS 16, IFRIC 23, and certain reclassifications. See Note 1 – General and Basis of Preparation. Adjusted operating profit 23.6 23.1 22.2 22.2 21.4 ** Restated for IFRS 15. Adjusted net profit 17.1 16.0 14.6 14.4 13.8 ROIC (%) 11.8 10.6 10.0 9.8 9.3 Dividend proposal in % of adjusted net profit 39.8 39.0 37.4 36.8 37.5 Dividend proposal in % of profit for the year, attributable to owners of the company 47.1 40.5 37.6 46.4 51.7 Cash conversion ratio (%) 96 104 100 100 100 Net interest coverage 18.7 12.8 8.9 8.9 7.6 Net-debt-to-EBITDA 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.7 Net gearing 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.7 Shareholders’ equity / capital employed 0.48 0.45 0.46 0.46 0.46 Guarantee equity to total assets 0.27 0.26 0.26 0.30 0.31 204 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 205 Table of Contents | Consolidated Financial Statements | Company Financial Statements Glossary Contact Information Adjusted Capital expenditure EBITDA remeasurement on assets classified ‘Adjusted’ refers to figures from Sum of capitalized expenditure on Operating profit before amortization as held for sale, and other. Wolters Kluwer N.V. About this report continuing operations, adjusted for property, plant, and equipment and and impairment of acquired Zuidpoolsingel 2 non-benchmark items and, where other intangible assets less any identifiable intangible assets and Non-benchmark items in total applicable, amortization and carrying value of assets disposed of. impairment of goodwill, and before financing results: financing P.O. Box 1030 Sustainability information is integrated within the 2019 impairment of goodwill and acquired amortization and impairment of component employee benefits, gains 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn Annual Report. For more information on sustainability, identifiable intangible assets. Cash flow: cash conversion ratio other intangible assets and and losses on financial assets at fair ‘Adjusted’ figures are non-IFRS Adjusted operating cash flow divided depreciation and impairment of value through profit or loss, and The Netherlands visit www.wolterskluwer.com. compliant financial figures but are by adjusted operating profit. property, plant, and equipment, and divestment-related results on internally regarded as key right-of-use assets. equity-accounted investees. performance indicators to measure Cash flow: adjusted free cash flow info@wolterskluwer.com This Annual Report is also available as a PDF on our the underlying performance of the Net cash from operating activities less Guarantee equity NOPAT www.wolterskluwer.com website www.wolterskluwer.com. business. capital expenditure, plus paid Sum of total equity, subordinated Net operating profit after allocated acquisition and divestment expenses, (convertible) bonds, and perpetual tax. Adjusted operating profit less www.linkedin.com/company/wolters-kluwer Adjusted earnings per share plus dividends received, and one-off cumulative bonds. allocated tax. www.facebook.com/wolterskluwer Cover image: Our colleague Eric Alberts, Manager User Adjusted net profit divided by the cash tax items. Adjusted free cash flow weighted average number of ordinary is the cash flow available for payment Invested capital Operating accounts receivables www.twitter.com/wolters_kluwer Experience Design at the Digital eXperience Group, in shares outstanding. of dividends to shareholders, Total assets minus current liabilities, Operating accounts receivables conversation with his colleagues in front of his acquisitions, repayments of debt, and excluding investments in equityconsist of prepayments and Adjusted EBITDA repurchasing of shares. accounted investees, deferred tax miscellaneous receivables. Chamber of Commerce visualization of trends that impact our markets, our EBITDA, adjusted for non-benchmark assets, non-operating working capital Trade Registry No. 33.202.517 customers, and the ongoing transformation of our expert items in operating profit. Cash flow: adjusted operating cash and cash and cash equivalents. This Operating current liabilities flow total is adjusted for accumulated Operating current liabilities consist solutions. Adjusted net financing costs Adjusted EBITDA plus or minus amortization on acquired identifiable of salaries and holiday allowances, Trademarks referenced are owned by Wolters Kluwer N.V. Total financing results adjusted for autonomous movements in working intangible assets, goodwill amortized social security premiums and other non-benchmark items in total capital, less capital expenditure, less pre-IFRS, and goodwill written off to taxation, pension-related payables, and/or its subsidiaries and may be registered in various financing results. repayments of lease liabilities and equity pre-IFRS (excluding acquired royalty payables, and other accruals countries. lease interest paid. identifiable intangible assets and and payables. Adjusted net profit goodwill impaired and/or fully Profit for the year from continuing Constant currencies amortized), less any related deferred Organic revenue growth Forward-looking statements and other operations attributable to the owners Income, expense, and cash flows in tax liabilities. The average invested Calculated as revenue for the period, of the company, excluding the local currencies are recalculated to capital is based on five measurement excluding the impact of acquisitions important legal information after-tax effect of non-benchmark euros, using the average exchange points during the year. above a minimum threshold, divided items, amortization of acquired rates of the previous calendar year. by revenue for the period in the identifiable intangible assets, and Net debt previous reporting period, adjusted This report contains forward-looking statements. These impairments of goodwill and acquired Continuing operations Sum of long-term debt, borrowings for the impact of divestments of statements may be identified by words such as “expect”, identifiable intangible assets. The results of the group, excluding and bank overdrafts, and deferred operations above a minimum the results of those components that and contingent acquisition payables threshold, all translated at constant “should”, “could”, “shall” and similar expressions. Wolters Adjusted operating profit have been presented as discontinued minus cash and cash equivalents, currencies. Kluwer cautions that such forward-looking statements Operating profit before amortization operations. divestment receivables, collateral and impairment of acquired deposited, and the net fair value of Tax on adjusted profit are qualified by certain risks and uncertainties that could identifiable intangible assets and Diluted adjusted earnings per share derivative financial instruments. Income tax expense adjusted for tax cause actual results and events to differ materially from impairment of goodwill and adjusted Adjusted earnings per share adjusted benefits on amortization of acquired for non-benchmark items. for the effects of all dilutive Net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio identifiable intangible assets and what is contemplated by the forward-looking statements. potential ordinary shares. Net debt divided by EBITDA, adjusted impairments, tax on non-benchmark Factors which could cause actual results to differ from Adjusted operating profit margin for divestment-related results on items, and the income tax effect of Adjusted operating profit as a Shares conditionally awarded under operations. any material changes in (income) tax these forward-looking statements may include, without percentage of revenues. LTIP-plans are included in the laws and (income) tax rates in the limitation, general economic conditions; conditions in the calculation of the diluted weighted Net gearing jurisdictions where the group Adjusted profit before tax average number of ordinary shares Net debt divided by total equity. operates. markets in which Wolters Kluwer is engaged; behavior of Sum of adjusted operating profit, outstanding if the vesting conditions customers, suppliers, and competitors; technological adjusted net financing costs, income are satisfied. Net interest coverage Working capital from investments, and share of profit Adjusted operating profit, divided by Current assets less current liabilities. developments; the implementation and execution of new of equity-accounted investees (net of Diluted earnings per share adjusted net financing costs. ICT systems or outsourcing; and legal, tax, and regulatory tax). Basic earnings per share adjusted for Working capital: non-operating the effects of all dilutive potential Non-benchmark items working capital rules affecting Wolters Kluwer’s businesses, as well as Allocated tax ordinary shares. Non-benchmark items relate to Non-operating working capital is the risks related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. In Allocated tax is benchmark tax rate expenses arising from circumstances total of the current receivables/ multiplied by adjusted operating Shares conditionally awarded under or transactions that, given their size payables of derivative financial addition, financial risks such as currency movements, profit. LTIP-plans are included in the or nature, are clearly distinct from instruments, the short-term part of interest rate fluctuations, liquidity, and credit risks could calculation of the diluted weighted the ordinary activities of the group, the provisions, divestment Basic earnings per share average number of ordinary shares and are excluded from the receivables, current deferred and influence future results. The foregoing list of factors The profit or loss attributable to the outstanding if the vesting conditions benchmark figures. contingent acquisition payables, should not be construed as exhaustive. Wolters Kluwer ordinary shareholders of the are satisfied. interest receivable/payable, current company, divided by the weighted Non-benchmark items in operating income tax assets/liabilities, disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or average number of ordinary shares EBITA profit: amortization and impairment borrowings and bank overdrafts, revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a outstanding during the period. EBITA (earnings before interest, tax, of acquired identifiable intangible short-term part of bonds, private and amortization) is calculated as assets, results from divestments placements, and lease liabilities, and result of new information, future events or otherwise. Benchmark tax rate operating profit plus amortization (including directly attributable the assets and liabilities classified as Tax on adjusted profit, divided by and impairment of acquired divestment costs), additions to held for sale. adjusted profit before tax. identifiable intangible assets and provisions for restructuring of impairment of goodwill. stranded costs following Working capital: operating working Capital employed divestments, acquisition-related capital Total assets minus current liabilities. costs, additions to acquisition Operating working capital is working integration provisions, subsequent capital, minus non-operating working fair value changes on contingent capital and cash and cash considerations, loss on equivalents. 206 Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2019 Annual Report 207
