UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress FOREWORD 1 September 2020 Dear All, For our fifth update report I am pleased to confirm that Verisec AB continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we present some of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles. By the very nature of our business we support public accountability and transparency. Therefore we commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, Johan Henrikson CEO Verisec AB 2 INTRODUCTION Sustainable and responsible business is important for Verisec Given how the Corona virus outbreak affects the entire to be able to create long-term value for the company and world, we see it as our responsibility to contribute. The our stakeholders. Sustainable business according to our current situation has forced a large number of definition means integrating financial responsibility, social employees and students to work and study remotely. responsibility and environmental responsibility in all aspects However, the absence of a secure identification method of our business. for remote work may result in users not being able to perform the same tasks as normal. In order to help Verisec has been a member of the UN Global Compact for society continue to function normally, Verisec offered many years and the ten principles of UN Global Compact organizations to use Freja eID free of charge for a period and its underlying conventions and declarations are always of time. present in the company’s business. For some time Verisec has received a large number of Verisecs mission is to manage digital trust by delivering inquiries from companies, authorities and schools which, innovative solutions for digital identities. An app on your in light of the current situation, have an urgent need to mobile device for login, instead of a token you rarely have in your ensure that staff and students can work remotely. Freja pocket, or a lot of passwords that are easily forgotten, is one eID allows these people to access the same resources example of how we operate in the area we call digital identities. thanks to its secure access and authentication. The ten basic priciples of UN Global Compact are important Social sustainability is at the core of Verisec business. By elements in the daily work of Verisec. We have policies regarding providing secure digital identities we provide a secure means health and safety, business ethics, communications, bribery for people across the globe to interact across digital channels and rehabilitation for employees. We continuously try to locate while maintaining a high degree of privacy and personal integrity main offices in proximity to public transportation to minimize protection. Thereby we contribute to important social structures impact on environment. All employees have a health insurance, and building new ecosystems. Using our technology we also despite the fact that Sweden has subsidized healthcare. All enable increased welfare at reduced cost by allowing both local employees are also encouraged to use the health care and central government to offer digital services e.g. eHealth initiatives). contributions in the form of wellness grants that the company is providing. Verisec has also achieved a number of improvements Digitalization can also reduce corruption by automating to minimise the company’s carbon footprint. processes. Identity and security related to these are core components to achieve these benefits. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the As e-ID becomes a requirement for accessing both private protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and public e-services, these people end up further and within their sphere of influence. further away from being able to interact with the digital world. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Freja eID allows these people to access the same resources thanks to its secure access and authentication. As society becomes more and more digital, hundreds of thousands of individuals end up in digital exclusion. We presented 'E-ID with shared control' in PTS’s (Swedish There was a time when you could choose to do things National Post and Telecom Agency) innovation the traditional way or digitally, but now doors to noncompetition 'From outside to the internet'and out of 116 digital alternatives are closing ever faster. We must all submitted proposals, ours became one of eight that help to minimise the digital exclusion of these received funding. This enables us to launch this solution individuals. Freja eID is contributing with an innovation more quickly and thus prevent hundreds of thousands of that solves one of the biggest problems – access to individuals from experiencing digital exclusion. This also electronic identification for everyone. brings us one step closer to our vision of an e-ID for everyone. One of the reasons why people become excluded from the digital world is that they cannot, dare not , or do not want to 'E-ID with shared control' is expected to be launched during use an e-ID. This includes many elderly people and the first half of 2021. individuals with special needs. Verisec has offices in two countries SWEDEN | SERBIA Established 2002 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of A normal working week is 40 hours, unless otherwise regulated association and the effective recognition of the right to in national legislation. Employees have the right to yearly holidays collective bargaining. and parental leave. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and All employees shall be free to form and to join, or not to join, compulsory labour. trade unions or similar employee representative organisations. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Verisec has a policy regarding the working environment and is responsible for work not to endanger the health or safety of PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect employees. of employment and occupation. Therefore, in the beginning of last winter, before the corona virus outbreak, Verisec organized vaccination against the flu for free, on voluntary basis for all our employees. The aim of this was to ensure the best safety Verisec complies with the relevant laws relating to employment conditions in our offices when it comes to employee and employment conditions in each country we operate in. health. We recognize that labour standards and conditions may vary from country to country. We ensure that our employees have After the corona virus outbreak, we recommended our satisfactory wages, working conditions and that there is no employees to work from home. For those who had exploitation of labour. serious reasons to work from the office, we provided all recommended measures by WHO in all our workspaces. No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for employment. We place high demands on suppliers that Steps to correct and prevent physical accidents and injuries as we are in business with continously, to not take part of or in well as psychosocial illnesses are being taken to limit hazards any way support, any form of child labour. in the working environment. There are various initiatives in our different offices, depending on local needs and requests Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all. The persons from our employees. Some of the measures we take to prevent recruited are selected on merits and are not discriminated physical and psychosocial illnesses in the work space are giving because of gender, race, origin, religion, sexual orientation, our employees the possibility to exercise during business disability or age. To us, diversity is positive. hours, and benefit from a wellness grant. Workplace design provisions are also applied in all locations based on local All employees shall have a written contract, be informed regulations. Where such regulation is not available Swedish about and fully understand their employment conditions and norms form the basis of workplace design. rights. The contract shall as minimum contain: working hours, notice period, wages and frequency of payment. Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary manage and distribute it in Sweden, of course means leaving approach to environmental challenges; an environmental footprint. Verisec’s effort to develop security solutions that use the mobile phone as the login device, are to PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater be seen as part of a reduced climate impact. We believe that the environmental responsibility; and mobile phone of the future will be the entity that most people use to securely connect to various services on the Internet PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion and in line with this, the number of physical devices will be of environmentally friendly technologies. reduced. Recycling is also a natural part in all of our offices across the Our business is to help other companies implement digitization. world. Sorting paper, metals, foods and plastics is part of this This means that our products and services reduce or eliminate ongoing project. We collect huge amounts of plastic bottle paper-based processes and physical transport. Letters and caps in our Serbian office to support the Bottle Caps for other documentation can, with our technology, be replaced by Handicapped humanitarian initiative. We are also committed digital communication. Physical communication can be replaced to the EU WEEE initiative to minimize the impact of electronic by digital contacts and our technology makes it possible for people waste. All our electronic equipment is being collected, reused to work from home /remotely with less travelling as a result. and/or disposed off in accordance with EU regulations by approved suppliers. We only use printing shops that are environmentally certified, and always select paper that is FCS-marked and Rainforest We strongly encourage our employees to drive hybrid cars. Alliance Certified. Our branch office in Serbia, Verisec Labs, joined the Verisec has invested in a system for remote meetings between campaign for a greener Belgrade, organized by the Swedish our offices so that we can cut down on travel. embassy. Together with Swedish companies that operate in Serbia Verisec Labs donated 269 trees which were planted We offer employees to work from home as a step to reduce in mid-March in order to contribute to cleaner air and travelling and also the impact on the environment. Verisec making more green parks in the Serbian capital city. strive to minimize environmental impact in all parts of the business. The move to a refurbished plant in Upplands Väsby was a part of our efforts to streamline our processes and minimize the number of transports. To manufacture a login token in China, transporting it several thousand miles and then 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption Verisec has a policy on business ethics. Corruption does not in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. only create problems for the individual company, but also prevents communities from developing, especially in poor parts of the world. All forms of corruption, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, facilitation payments, nepotism, fraud, terrorism financing and money laundering, are forbidden. Digital payments and transactions – part of our core business, increase the traceability and thus prevent money laundering and other related forms of corruption. No one shall offer, ask for, give or accept, directly or indirectly, a personal payment, gift or benefit in exchange for favourable treatment intended to influence a business transaction or to obtain a personal or business advantage. Verisec has a policy that states that the principles relevant to business ethics is an integrated part of the business 7 About Verisec Verisec AB (publ) develops and provides solution for digital identity. The business builds on two areas, the internationally scalable eID platfrom Freja eID and secure fulfilment services. The company has offices in Stockholm and Upplands Väsby in Sweden, and in Belgrade, Serbia. Verisec is listed on Nasdaq First North Premier Growth Market in Stockholm. www.verisec.com © 2020 Verisec AB. All rights reserved. 8
