365 Sustainability Report 2019 Responsibility -10% Reduction in Scope 1 GHG emissions to Code of 123,048t Conduct 1,188,563t Use of non-recyclable materials falls by 15% Highlights 112,435 Training hours 2019 increase by 18% +4% Average staffing level: 19,828 Safety Alert implemented > EUR Contents 7bn 02 About this report 04 Foreword by the Executive Board 06 A day with the Executive Board Record Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy order backlog 09 About PORR 12 Sustainability strategy 15 Sustainability goals 16 Stakeholder engagement 17 Material topics 19% Economic 22 A day with Alexander Seitner 24 Contributing to the local economy 25 Value chain 26 Social and environmental standards in the supply chain 28 Ethics and compliance Percentage of women in 29 Code of Conduct training to become future Environmental managers rises by 11PP 32 A day with Angelika Wiedner 34 Energy and emissions 38 Waste management 40 Material consumption and recycling 42 Biodiversity and soils 43 Water -7% Reduction in Social 46 48 52 55 57 A day with Mirjam Willems Health and safety Further education and training Upholding human rights and employment Diversity and equal opportunities total energy consumption to Appendix 60 Risk and impact analysis 598,179MWh 64 GRI content index 71 Key performance indicators 89 Responsibility statement 90 Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report 92 Acknowledgements About this report GRI Reporting practices and framework in the report. There is also no option to compare 102-51 Since 2008 PORR has issued regular reports data for the UAE with data from the previous 102-52 on its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) year. activities, published at least once every two years. Since 2018 the PORR Sustainability External assurance GRI Report is published annually. The last report This report has been submitted for an external 102-56 came out in April 2019 and was based on audit by Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuer­ the standards of the Global Reporting beratungsgesellschaft BDO Austria GmbH. ­Initiative (GRI). Pursuant to Section 96 Paragraph 1 of the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, this report has GRI This 2019 Sustainability Report is a non-finanbeen checked by the Supervisory Board. In 102-46 cial report pursuant to Section 267a of the addition to this report, PORR provides informa102-50 102-54 Austrian Commercial Code and in accordance tion on corporate responsibility in the Annual with Section 243b of the Austrian Commercial Report and online at porr-group.com/en/csr. Code. It is targeted at all stakeholder groups of PORR AG and covers the business activities Additional information from 1 January to 31 December 2019. It has The CSR topics of relevance to PORR were been produced in accordance with the GRI determined under application of a Group-wide standards, “Core” option. Parallel to this, PORR stakeholder survey in 2019 and presented in a has shown how the material topics and new materiality matrix. The analysis was based corresponding measures stand in relation to the on the requirements of the GRI standards and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The on the topics of the relevant sustainability rating measures have been evaluated in terms of the and the peer group. This led to a slight differcontribution they have made to the SDGs and ence in the weighting of the material aspects in are cross-referenced in the report. comparison with the 2018 Sustainability Report. GRI Accounting for around 94%, the most signifiThe risk assessment corresponds to the 102-45 cant share of production is generated on the requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and 102-46 102-49 home markets of Austria, Germany, SwitzerDiversity Improvement Act. The risks identified land, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and in the course of workshops have been assessed Romania. That is why this report focuses on in terms of implications and probability of the home markets. The project markets Qatar occurrence, evaluated, consolidated and finally and Norway are also in the reporting sphere. entered into a matrix. These were assessed in As PORR aims to report on sustainability topics 2019 by the CSR Steering Committee to see if in full across the entire Group analogously to they were up to date and led to some slight the Annual Report, the addition of the United adjustments. Appropriate countermeasures Arab Emirates (UAE) has resulted in a change have been identified for the items listed as top of the countries included in the report risks, some of which have already been compared to the 2018 Sustainability Report. implemented. Comparative data for the previous year is shown wherever possible. That said, the figures for the Group are not comparable with the previous year in view of the change in the countries included GRI Your contact partner 102-53 Theresia E. Pircher Corporate Social Responsibility Unit T +43 50 626-1840 theresia.pircher@porr.at 02 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 03 365 days Taking responsibility GRI The year of our 150th anniversary was clouded update our materiality matrix. While the 102-14 by a difficult market situation. High demand at stakeholders themselves hadn’t changed, there the same time as a scarcity of resources couwas a slight change or expansion in the topics, pled with intensive competition meant that – which also corresponds to global trends. So, an despite a record order backlog of more than even stronger focus has been placed on seven billion euros – we had to make a downpromoting sustainability in the supply chain. wards revision to our profit forecast. We have Details on this are given in the chapter responded very quickly with “PORR 2025” and Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy. introduced a restructuring process. With the We had already anticipated this development COVID-19 pandemic we are currently experiencand done justice to it with our dedicated Code of ing a crisis that is having a drastic impact on Conduct for business partners that is manda­ every area of our lives. Unfortunately, it is tory throughout the entire Group. This serves as impossible to forecast the actual economic an important pillar in relationship management impacts at this time. Our biggest focus now is and our everyday work lives. For the PORR on the health of our employees and on safeemployees there is an internally binding Code of guarding our economic stability. All operational Conduct that contains an instruction manual to measures and our full commitment to sustain­ explain how staff should behave in unclear able business remain unchanged. We are comsituations. mitted to climate protection and to a careful approach to our resources as well as advocating We also have good news to report with regard to for a fair environment in which to live and work – energy. The comprehensive measures imple365 days a year. mented have allowed us to reduce both energy consumption and GHG emissions. In contrast This commitment is also the focus of our 2019 we managed to increase the percentage of Sustainability Report: We embrace responsibility women in training to become future managers for the economy, environment and for social by 11PP. This year our work was recognised affairs. This is reflected in the high staff satiswith numerous awards – including Gold from faction rate, which was shown to exceed 90% EcoVadis and 100% at Achilles. In addition, we in this year’s analysis. Also unchanged is our were named as a Diversity Leader by the commitment to the principles of the UN Global Financial Times. These developments show that Compact, under which we strive to meet the we are on the right track. We look forward to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). your personal feedback on our work. What do we have to report in terms of sustain­ ability? We achieved high take-up for our stakeholder survey, which was then used to Sincerely, the Executive Board Karl-Heinz Andreas Sauer Josef Pein Thomas Stiegler Strauss CFO COO COO CEO 04 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword by the Executive Board Josef Pein Andreas Sauer Karl-Heinz Strauss Thomas Stiegler A day the Executive Board with Responsibility matters. Multiple ­appointments shape the everyday work life of the Executive Board members. During which they have to keep an eye on economic, social and environmental issues at the same time as safeguarding the company’s economic success. 11:00 08:30 Opening of the Video interview PORR Campus On the 19th floor of the PORR headquarters, Together with representatives from politics, COO Thomas Stiegler submits to questions posed by business and the media, CEO Karl-Heinz Strauss UBM Development. In a quick-fire interview known opens the PORR Campus at the PORR compound to German speakers as a “Word-Rap”, he answers in Wien Simmering – a pilot project that’s one of eleven questions and talks about his job as head of a kind in Austria. This internal facility for further Business Unit 3 and international projects, his education and training is allowing PORR to inspiration, his mission and his largest private expand the three-pronged system of construcconstruction project to date – namely tion apprenticeships with a fourth pillar and a sandcastle he built for his son. thereby elevating the existing curriculum for In addition, he gives an insight skilled workers and apprentices to a new level. In into progress on the the period September 2019 to June 2020, around Holiday Inn project in 200 apprentices from all three apprenticeship Gdańsk city centre – classes should attend the PORR Campus. aiming for the sustainability certificate LEED Gold – and underlines the importance of the PORR Principles and of PORRians standing together. 06 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 14:00 Group tax meeting With an exciting keynote, CFO Andreas Sauer introduces the annual tax meeting before answering questions on the overall finance strategy of the PORR Group. The meeting is held once a year under the management of the Group tax department. Participants at this one-day event include those responsible for tax issues throughout the entire Group, every department that deals with taxes and colleagues from selected operating units of the Vienna headquarters. 16:30 TU Talent Internship At a talent internship event for construction engineers at the Vienna University of Technology (TU), Executive Board member and COO Josef Pein holds so-called “lightning job interviews” with selected students. The goal is to get to know future graduates of the tech uni and to find appropriate candidates for PORR in the fields of building construction and civil engineering. In the course of a multi-week internship, they then gain an insight into services provided by PORR. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 07 Corporate Profile and ­Sustainability Strategy 09 About PORR 12 Sustainability strategy 15 Sustainability goals 16 Stakeholder engagement 17 Material topics 08 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy About PORR GRI NO 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 LEADING CONSTRUCTION COMPANY DE PL PORR is Austria’s leading construction CZ company and is one of the industry’s most SK important players on its home markets. CH AT SEVEN HOME MARKETS RO IN EUROPE PORR focuses on the seven European home markets of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. In addition, the company does very selective work on certain project markets QA such as Qatar, UAE and Norway. AE STABLE CORE Home markets SHAREHOLDER Project markets The core shareholders take a long-term approach and support the PORR strategy. The Strauss-Ortner syndicate holds 53.7% of shares, the remainder are in free float. Around 94% of production output comes from the seven PORR home markets. Core competency – construction ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI (EUR m) 102-8 PORR has been successfully realising complex 201-1 2019 2018 Change construction projects in building construction and civil engineering for over 150 years. As one of the Production output 5,570 5,593 -0.4% few infrastructure specialists on the seven home Order backlog 7,065 7,100 -0.5% markets, the company covers the entire value Order intake 5,536 6,326 -12.5% chain for infrastructure projects. Its goal is to EBITDA 222.3 219.5 1.3% ­continue to expand the company’s leading EBIT 54.7 92.3 -40.7% position as a design-build contractor. Furthermore, as a technology leader, PORR increasingly EBT 37.4 88.1 -57.6% applies networked and innovative solutions to Consolidated profit 27.8 66.2 -58.0% construction and is proactively driving forward Equity (incl. nondigital advances. controlling interests) 599 618 -3.1% Equity ratio 16.4% 19.9% -3.5PP Net debt 346 150 >100.0% Average staff 19,828 19,014 4.3% PORR Sustainability Report 2019 09 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy GRI Economic performance “PORR 2025” transformation programme 201-1 PORR ended the year of consolidation, 2019, The PORR strategy remains unchanged and with a high order backlog of EUR 7,065m that focused on the long term. The “PORR 2025” was just slightly below the level of the previous transformation programme was initiated in 2019 year. Despite the challenging market environand aims to substantially strengthen PORR as a ment, this reflects the positive medium-term group during the ongoing structural shifts in the market trend. Production output of EUR 5,570m construction sector. Numerous analyses were once again matched the record level of the conducted in the year under review in the four previous year. PORR generated around 94% of action fields of Markets/Segments, Organisaoutput on its seven stable home markets. Its tion, Operational Analysis and Digital Opportuniselective approach to project acquisition has ties and measures were derived from this analyenabled the company to strengthen its earnings sis, all in pursuit of one single aim: PORR wants power as well as its market position on the to create sustainable long-term value. Further home markets and sustainably align itself for details are given in the 2019 Annual Report on the future. The order intake was reduced by pages 68 and 69. 12.5% to EUR 5,536m and reflects the strategy of a more selective acquisition policy in the Greater focus: The company remains Group. The revaluation of a project in Norway convinced of the long-term potential of its and the market situation in Poland led to a seven European home markets. The strong 57.6% reduction in earnings before taxes (EBT) growth in recent years has allowed PORR to for the 2019 business year to EUR 37.4m. secure a powerful market position in many regions that should be secured and expanded in the future. Greater efficiency: Following the growth of recent years and as part of its strategy implementation, PORR initiated a structural realignment in 2019. Uniform standards and processes across the Group provide a framework for intelligent and profitable growth. Enhancing value: The changing market backdrop and PORR’s strong growth over the past few years have necessitated a review of cost structures at every level. Digital opportunities: The need for transformation in the construction sector has led to a massive rise in terms of technology. Digital, connected solutions across the entire construction value chain and new, data-based business models are the main focus here. These will open up new dimensions in terms of future potential. Staff GRI 102-8 PORR experienced further growth in the period under review. In 2019 the company employed 19,828 staff members, of which 18,290 were on the home markets. This represents an increase of 4.3% against the previous year. The growth in Austria was particularly strong at 7.1%, which was partly accounted for by the increase in output of BU 1. The rise abroad was less pronounced at 2.1%. The new home 10 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy markets of Slovakia and Romania were the act in a timely manner any risks related to only places with a significant rise in staffing quality, the environment, social affairs and health levels. For the entire PORR Group, staff and safety, such as the shortage of skilled labour, expense climbed to EUR 1,243.2m, which was wage dumping, social dumping, unfair competiGRI slower than the rise in production output. The tion or breaches of human rights – all issues that 202-2 people who work at PORR come from over are especially relevant in relation to the supply SDG 8 80 nations. The percentage of senior managechain. A detailed overview of the material risks ment recruited from the local community was and their impacts on non-financial issues 76.5% in Austria, 50% in Germany and 100% in pursuant to the Sustainability and Diversity Poland. There is no corresponding level on the Improvement Act can be found from page 60. In GRI other PORR markets. the environmental sector, the risks are climate-­ 102-11 201-2 related, whereby the keyword is emissions, or PORR uses targeted measures to strengthen relate to heavy resource consumption and an the motivation and performance ability of increase in waste generated. As a sustainable its employees as well as their potential for company, PORR has implemented measures in innovation and social skills. Promoting women the field of energy and resource efficiency as at every level of the hierarchy is another well as for reducing waste. The more frequent important goal for PORR. Numerous measures occurrence of extreme weather events caused by led to an increase in the percentage of women climate change also has a negative influence on in the company to 15%. This corresponds to construction activity. Weather extremes such as 368 more female staff members in the heat, flooding, storms etc. can lead to expensive company than the previous year. project delays, damage to structures or machinery or even to the shutdown of construction sites. Quality management Quality assurance is part of operational project Customer satisfaction management. The Integrated Management Customer satisfaction is a significant success System is used to define material core processes factor in the construction business and has been and assign clear responsibilities via the process anchored into the PORR management system as map. The process itself is subdivided into the a standardised process. Measuring satisfaction is planning phase, monitoring and comparing carried out at multiple levels and covers aspects target and actual quality criteria, as well as such as adherence to deadlines, meeting ­budgets introducing countermeasures in case of any or upholding quality and social standards deviations. The process steps are documented including those related to occupational health using test records. Correctional measures are and safety and environmental protection. The regularly evaluated as part of a process of satisfaction assessment takes place in the continuous improvement. course of project management, upon handover, using a questionnaire or in a customer meetGRI Risk management ing. In 2019 a decision was taken to measure 102-15 102-30 Efficient risk management and the internal customer satisfaction digitally, whereby the control system (ICS) are essential for economic first steps have been initiated in relation to the success. The ICS is aligned to mandatory EU content of the new question database as well as standards and includes the assessment of a tool for its implementation. The goal is to have operating risks and the proper implementation all of the findings available Group-wide at the of organisational processes to all accounting and touch of a button and to allow correctional reporting processes in the Group. The risk measures to be taken early on in case of any assessment processes contain quantitative negative developments. A pilot project to this analyses of opportunities and risks that are also end is planned for 2020. applied to standard risk checklists. More information is provided in the 2019 Annual Report from page 108. PORR monitors new developments and is in close contact with regulators and NGOs. In addition to performance and finance risks such as those related to the market, liquidity, interest rates, currency exchange, procurement, borrowing and capital risks, the Group-wide risk management also covers social and environmental risks. The goal of the company is to counterPORR Sustainability Report 2019 11 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Sustainability strategy Responsible corporate management is the ­foundation of our economic success. PORR intends to do justice to the responsibility it bears towards the environment and society. GRI The high amounts of energy and resources The health and safety of our employees are 102-15 consumed in the construction industry mean especially important to PORR. This principle is that the impacts of PORR’s business activities reflected in numerous measures and initiatives. on society and on the environment are both Against a backdrop of the growing lack of skilled severe and multifaceted. This requires global, labour, PORR continues to focus on personnel forward-looking thinking. As a company that development. By individually nurturing and acts sustainably and operates internationally, developing the strengths and competencies of PORR is committed to improving its energy individual staff members, the company’s ability efficiency and thereby reducing its energy to innovate should be maintained, knowhow consumption. Another focal point lies in secured and competitiveness further increased. resource efficiency – where improved material Safety and preventative healthcare are other recycling, developing new construction key pillars when doing business. materials and methods and more efficient construction-site logistics are significant The principles of sustainable corporate manageGRI factors in terms of both costs and competitivement are anchored in the PORR sustainability 102-16 ness. Last but not least, recycling raw materials strategy, the latest version of which can be found helps to reduce procurement risks such as on the PORR website. The CSR vision is part of supplier bottlenecks or the cost of materials. the sustainability strategy. GRI 102-16 OUR VISION We strive for sustainable economic success and want to operate in a way that is fair and just to society and the environment. We create a positive and inclusive work environment characterised by respect and support. We guarantee occupational health and safety and focus on workplace health promotion. We rely on regular exchanges with our stakeholders in our quest to find solutions for global challenges. We intend to strengthen our resilience against the current and future consequences of climate change. We want to make a valuable contribution to preserving our natural resources for current and future generations. We advocate for an improvement in environmental performance ­throughout the entire value chain. We want to replace resource-intensive methods that damage the environment by developing sustainable and innovative products and services. 12 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy GRI Responsibility and steering business are realised wherever necessary. 102-18 The sustainability strategy and objectives Proposals on prioritising planned sustainability 102-19 with their accompanying set of measures measures are made by different people includare determined by the Executive Board in ing the CSR Project Team, which is active across GRI cooperation with the CSR Unit. Responsibility for the Group. This team compares best-practice 102-20 sustainability lies with the Executive Board. examples or lessons learnt from the PORR 102-31 Together with the CSR Steering Committee – markets and highlights any areas where action a cross-departmental network of experts needs to be taken. including those from the areas of Quality Management, Environmental Engineering, As the coordinating body, the CSR Unit has GRI Human Resources, Technology Management, regular exchanges with the PORR stakeholders. 102-21 102-32 Occupational Health and Safety, Procurement, Responsibility for all of the measures is borne Group Management, Group Accounting, Risk by the most senior control bodies. This means SDG 16 Management and Compliance, Equipment that not only is the Sustainability Report asManagement, as well as Energy Efficiency and sessed and approved by the Executive Board Waste Management – the sustainability and the Supervisory Board, but all sustainability measures are constantly assessed, updated and issues are regularly discussed in Supervisory new CSR projects directly linked to the core Board meetings. Three pillars of sustainability PORR’s sustainability strategy rests on three Reliability, Shoulder to Shoulder, Appreciation, pillars: Economic, Environmental and Social. Passion and Pioneering Spirit form the common The terminology has been updated since last corporate culture that strives to guarantee year and adjusted in line with GRI standards morally, ethically and legally unimpeachable and the Sustainability and Diversity Improvebehaviour. Guidance is provided by the PORR ment Act. So, the adding value area is now in Code of Conduct for employees, which is the Economic action field, the content on mandatory across the entire Group. In addition preserving value can be found in the Environto fair competition, the uppermost maxim is mental section and the issues of recognising upholding the law, i.e. strict adherence to local value are addressed in the Social chapter. The provisions, guidelines, standards, labour laws and three action fields are derived from the matericonventions. Furthermore, any form of corrupality analysis and reflect the construction tion or bribery is prosecuted without exception. company’s three sustainability dimensions, Alongside the issue of risk management, cuswhich provide the basis for defining the goals tomers and their satisfaction are accorded top and corresponding measures. PORR is commitpriority. At PORR a customer-oriented approach ted to responsible corporate management and is visible in the quality of the services rendered promotes an integrated approach i.e. interlinkas well as in adherence to deadlines, flexibility, ing between the three sustainability dimenand meeting technological and economic targets. sions. When choosing business partners, suppliers etc., and when reducing outsourced risks in the value Economic chain, PORR insists on seamless adherence to The long-term success of the company forms principles laid out in the Code of Conduct for the basis for every economic activity. The imporbusiness partners. The company remains in tant contribution to local economic development close contact with its suppliers and service and the pursuit of long-term business success – providers in order to guarantee sustainability both of these are part of the continuous dialogue in the entire value chain. with the stakeholders. The five principles of PORR Sustainability Report 2019 13 Unternehmensprofil und Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie Environmental Social PORR is committed to preserving the environThe changes in the world of work in the ment and engages in research and development direction of digitalisation demand a modern, for the purpose of climate protection. With its forward-looking corporate culture that focuses climate strategy, the company wants to play a on the wellbeing of every single member of part in limiting the negative consequences of staff. The diversity of the approximately climate change. Energy-efficiency measures, 20,000 employees from more than 80 nations the use of renewables and the related substitushould be utilised even more effectively and tion of fossil fuels, as well as the development the conditions for a better work-life balance and use of sustainable products and services all should be put in place. In the field of occupahelp to reduce pollutant emissions. PORR takes tional health and safety PORR insists on strict current environmental questions into account adherence to safety rules and practices and when making corporate decisions and when provides every worker with a safe and healthy managing its resources and infrastructure. The working environment. Workplace health promoincreasing scarcity of resources and related tion and occupational health and safety are part price hikes are being countered with careful use of ongoing quality assurance and facilitate of resources and through recycling. PORR process-driven analysis. With a broad range of strives to minimise its impact on the environfurther education and training options, the ment and to continuously improve environmencompany is committed to nurturing individual tal protection measures. Environmental opporpotential. Customer focus, awareness of envitunities are utilised and risks are reduced, the ronmental and safety issues, as well as raising resultant impacts are analysed precisely and awareness of the company’s social responsibi­ appropriate solutions and countermeasures are lity towards society are all supported by a developed and applied. Here the company is sector-specific roadmap. PORR’s commitment committed to innovation and investments in to the community and social engagement is technological solutions as well as knowledge reflected in its support for selected organisatransfer between internal and external staketions and institutions that pursue humanitarian, holders. In cooperation with local partner comsocietal, charitable, educational or cultural panies, methods are developed that have the objectives. greatest possible impact on environmental protection. 14 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA IN A B IL I T Y G OA L S Action field Aspect Short to medium-term measures Status quo 2019 Social and environmental Group-wide rollout of SAP MM and SAP ARIBA standards in the supply Evaluating an SAP-based supplier management system chain (SDG 3, 8, 13, 15) Energy database for purchasing Set of sustainability criteria for procurement Introduction of ISHAP documentation system with complete coverage EC O N O M I C Responsible sourcing Ethics and compliance Further developing the high compliance standards (SDG 16) Conducting regular audits to receive certification Continuing with Group-wide anti-bribery and compliance training Science and technology Implementing the strategy plan for further digitalisation in corporate, (SDG 8, 9) work and construction processes Contributing to the local Exploiting economic benefits gained through resource efficiency economy (SDG 8, 10) Group-wide rollout of standardised feedback sessions with clients Introduction of a regular forum for stakeholder dialogue Energy and emissions Reducing  annual primary energy consumption by at least 1.5% (SDG 7, 13) versus 2015, by a total of 7.5% by 2020 Reducing specific GHG emissions by at least 1.5% per year versus 2015, by a total of 7.5% by 2020 Introducing an energy management system with complete coverage Continuation of energy-efficiency measures in equipment and fleet management Increasing the percentage of renewable, environmentally friendly energy to over 10% by 2020 Adhering to the binding climate strategy through regular monitoring E N V I R O N M E N TA L and an annual progress report Intensifying cooperation with climate-related representation of interest bodies Decarbonising the construction process by 21% by 2030 versus 2014 Waste management Cutting contaminated fractions through advances in waste treatment (SDG 15) and recovery techniques General reduction in waste Material consumption Further increasing the reuse and recycling of construction materials and recycling (SDG 15) Biodiversity and soils Focused risk analysis with regard to environmental impacts (SDG 3, 6, 13) Water (SDG 6, 15) Further developing methods that conserve resources in foundation engineering, building construction and civil engineering Sustainable buildings and Continuation of energy-efficiency measures in building management constructions (SDG 3, 7, 11, 12, 13) Health and safety Group-wide saturation with the “Vision Zero” campaign: (SDG 3) reducing the accident frequency to <10 by 2020 Continuing with training on occupational health and safety Introduction of workplace health promotion with complete coverage Upholding human Protecting and promoting international human rights rights (SDG 8, 16) SOCIAL Further education and Promoting e-learning training (SDG 4) Implementing the digIT LearningMap and thereby increasing the average length of training Rollout of the porr_academy for employees on all home markets Strengthening the competencies of women to increase the percentage of women at every level of the hierarchy General increase in the percentage of apprentices, specific target for Austria to 5% Diversity and equal Diversity as a fixed focal topic in training for future managers and establishing it opportunities (SDG 5) in the general educational programme Rollout of “We@PORR” to all PORR markets Raising awareness of diversity-related issues through communication, network meetings, role models etc. Achieved Underway Planned PORR Sustainability Report 2019 15 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 Stakeholders are included in key decisions via Group-wide online surveys – such as those used Shareholders Suppliers and in the production of the materiality matrix for and investors subcontractors example – and through activities like the internal evaluation of staff mental health and the survey on needs for childcare and nursing care. Stakeholders receive information about Staff Media the company in various ways such as general media reports, the PORR website, newsletters, corporate publications such as the Annual PORR Report or the Sustainability Report, the staff stakeholders magazine reporrt, as well as circulars or the Customers Society intranet or via direct exchanges such as the stakeholder dialogue forum. PORR is a member and/or supporter of numerGRI ous initiatives and sector-specific organisations 102-12 102-13 Cooperation Representations and has been rated by independent third parties partners of interests for its CSR activities and awarded various Authorities and sustainability certificates. policymakers Here is a short overview: Federation of ­Austrian Industry, VIBÖ (Association of Industrial Construction Companies Austria), Business for Integration, DWA (German Association for Water, Wastewater and Waste), GRI Actively involving internal and external stakeSociety for Ecology and the Waste Industry, 102-40 holders in PORR’s CSR activities is a central IDM (Institute for the Danube Region and 102-42 102-43 tenet. After all, understanding the needs of the Central Europe), IG Lifecycle, Minergie material stakeholder groups, i.e. the groups of ­Switzerland, NNBS (Sustainable Construction people who are directly connected to the Network Switzerland), SGNI (Swiss Sustainable company, who influence it or are influenced Building Council), Swiss Lean Construction by it, opens up new perspectives. Long-term Institute, Austrian Association for Recycling economic success is based on reconciling Construction Materials, Association to Promote stakeholder needs with corporate activities. Fairer Conditions in Construction, international In a workshop held by the CSR Steering initiatives with a focus on occupational health Committee, the question of whether the and safety such as bauforum+, FIEC (European relevant stakeholder groups are currently up Construction Industry Federation), EFFC to date was examined and confirmed. (European Federation of Foundation Contractors), Achilles (prequalification platform), GRI Multifaceted communication CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), EcoVadis 102-21 PORR engages in regular dialogue with its (CSR analysis system for supply chains), stakeholders. Exchanges take place in the DGNB (German Sustainable Building Council), company through networks, roadshows, FEhS (Institute for Research in Building conferences, shareholder meetings, trade fair Materials), Mineral Resources Forum, German appearances, workshops, training sessions, Water Partnership, Ludwig Boltzmann Society, lectures, topic-based factsheets and newsletÖGNI (Austrian Sustainable Building Council), ters, as well as in the course of realising proRailway Business Forum, STUVA (Research jects. In multi-day events such as the “CSR Association for Tunnels and Transportation Days” or the “Environmental Ideas Workshop”, Facilities), United Nations Global Compact ideas are generated for advancing sustainability including SDGs, Diversity Charter, respACT activities. In 2019 a dialogue forum was held (Austrian Business Council for Sustainable with suppliers on the topic of sustainable Development), Companies for Families, Global procurement. The measures implemented are Reporting Initiative. reflected in the very high rates of staff satisfaction. The large-scale staff survey carried out in 2019 put this at over 90%. 16 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 102-47 M AT E R I A L I T Y M AT R I X Unternehmensprofil und Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie 1 Social standards in the supply chain high 3 2 Energy and emissions 3 Health and safety 1 4 Ethics and compliance 6 4 5 Further education and training 7 6 Upholding human rights Relevance for stakeholders 16 11 5 7 Waste management 12 8 8 Material consumption and recycling 9 2 13 9 Environmental standards in the supply chain 10 10 Biodiversity and soils 15 11 Water 14 12 Sustainable buildings and constructions 13 Science and technology 14 Diversity and equal opportunities 15 Wellbeing of local residents 16 Contributing to the local economy medium Bubble size: relevance for the business low Impact on non-financial topics high Material topics GRI Materiality analysis sites for doing business successfully and are no 102-15 102-31 In 2019, the year under review, the CSR Steering longer considered as topics with a sustainability 102-44 Committee assessed the relevance of the stakecharacter, i.e. those that may have a negative 102-46 holder matrix. After confirming it was up to date, impact on society or the environment. The 102-48 a comprehensive analysis was conducted of all relevance of the topics “Health and safety”, SDG 16 of the topics on the basis of the latest GRI re“Further education and training” and “Ethics quirements, the peer groups, the CSR ratings and compliance” remained high. In addition, the and the requirements relating to prequalificatopic “Sustainable procurement” was renamed tion and SWOT analysis, as well as the risk and “Social and environmental standards in the impact analysis. In the end, the process yielded supply chain” to facilitate a more nuanced 16 CSR topics that had been determined as consideration of this key aspect. In the “Envimaterial, some of which are newly included. ronmental” action field, the aspect “Energy and They were then transferred to a questionnaire emissions” retained the highest relevance. with options to prioritise the topics. In October “Environmentally sound use of materials” was 2019 more than 4,000 internal and external divided into “Water”, “Waste management” and stakeholders took part in the anonymous “Material consumption and recycling” with a Group-wide survey. The survey’s findings were focus on recycling and expanded with the then brought together in a new materiality aspect “Sustainable buildings and construcmatrix that serves as the basis for updating tions”. The experts decided to replace “Committhe sustainability strategy. ment to society” with an aspect with a higher priority, namely “Wellbeing of local residents”. GRI In the course of the analysis, topics such as Nevertheless, the survey’s findings showed that 102-47 “Long-term economic success”, “Customer the weighting is significantly lower than other satisfaction” and “Risk management” were material aspects and so this aspect will not be removed from the matrix as these are prerequiexplored in particular detail. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 17 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy GRI UN Global Compact Priority 1: 102-16 PORR is a signatory to the UN Global Compact Goals 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”, 8 “Decent and fully supports the UN Guiding Principles for Work and Economic Growth”, 12 “Responsible Business and Human Rights. It supports the Consumption and Production” and 13 “Climate measurable Sustainable Development Goals Action” are especially relevant as the company (SDGs) defined by the UN General Assembly in can have the greatest influence in these areas 2015 through various projects, measures and given its high consumption of resources. The initiatives. When implementing its targets and introduction of energy-efficiency measures and strategy, PORR incorporates the principles use of renewables should lead to a fall in GHG relating to human rights, labour, environment emissions and a reduction in the dependency and anti-corruption. As an international on fossil fuels. The focus on comprehensive construction company, PORR is confronted by recycling measures makes an additional issues such as high consumption of energy and contribution to environmental protection and resources, high labour input and building up reducing disposal costs. These measures are land areas. All projects and KPIs are evaluated described in detail in the Environmental in terms of their contribution to the SDGs. The chapter. Occupational safety remains a top SDGs are also cited in addition to the GRI priority, as do the regular checks to ensure that standards in relation to the most important human rights are upheld. The growing relevance aspects of the report wherever PORR can make has led the aspect social standards in the a contribution to meeting them. supply chain to be given a higher weighting. These issues are addressed in the chapters PORR contributes to meeting 13 of the 17 SDGs Economic and Social. through its measures and programmes. The relevance of individual goals results from the materiality analysis and has been broken down into three categories. GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD 18 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Unternehmensprofil und Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie Priority 2: Priority 3: With regard to goals 3 “Good Health and Goals 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure” Well-being” and 4 “Quality Education”, PORR and 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities” makes important contributions, especially in are also significant for the business activities, the areas of occupational health and safety even though they have been accorded lower and further education and training. The same priority. PORR is striving to improve local transapplies to goal 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong port logistics and to identify efficiency mea­ Institutions”. Here a Code of Conduct was sures in the fields of transport and building implemented in the period under review and infrastructure. Promoting buildings with numerous compliance and anti-corruption sustainability certificates also falls under this measures were introduced. These measures are category, which was identified in the course of summarised in the chapters Economic and the new analysis and is shown in the materiality Social. On the basis of the materiality analysis, matrix under sustainable buildings and congoals 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation” and structions. In addition, reducing emissions 15 “Life on Land” are also a priority. In this caused by transport, pollution, and limiting any regard, PORR focuses on sustainable sources, negative social and environmental impacts are is committed to reuse and recycling and is ­addressed in this area. addressing the issue of water with a dedicated Water Officer and a water policy. The measures The impact of goals 5 “Gender Equality” and are part of the Environmental action field. 10 “Reduced Inequality” have been given a lower weighting in the materiality matrix. However, as PORR sees diversity in particular as an important topic of the future and is committed to guaranteeing equal opportunities across the Group, it has taken appropriate steps with the internal diversity initiative “We@PORR”. This aspect is addressed by measures in the Social chapter. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 19 ECONOMIC 22 A day with Alexander Seitner 24 Contributing to the local economy 25 Value chain 26 Social and environmental ­standards in the supply chain 28 Ethics and compliance 29 Code of Conduct A day Alexander Seitner with Sustainability underground. Alexander ­Seitner’s workday normally runs from 6 am to 7 pm. As a shift manager on the Brenner Base Tunnel, the PORRian has his hands full ensuring that the ­highest standards are met, including those ­related to sustainability. 10:45 Check conveyorbelt system In order to reduce emissions, all of the excavated material generated in the course of tunnelling is transported by conveyor belt directly from the working face to the Padastertal landfill and its planned treatment facility. The current conveyor belt has a length of around 13.5km – and is set to reach around 55km at full length. Daily checks are absolutely essential in order to minimise downtime. 06:00 Shift starts Right at the start of his shift, Alexander Seitner looks through his mailbox. To ensure that everyone involved is kept up to date, daily station announcements are sent out by email with all of the relevant tunnelling data. Printouts are avoided as much as possible. 22 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 14:30 Aggregates arrive In the early afternoon it’s time for quality control and the arrival of the aggregates. The aggregates needed for concrete production are currently being loaded onto wagons in the gravel plants and offloaded at the construction site. In future the excavated material that’s on site should be used for producing concrete in the site’s own mix plants. This will save on transport costs and protect the environment. And this also draws on the knowhow of the shift manager. 18:30 Maintenance The wastewater generated can only be released into the existing water bodies if certain values and parameters are met. Regular maintenance of the water pollution control system, usually carried out at the end of the workday, is the only way for PORR and the responsible inspection body to guarantee the proper functioning of the facility. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 23 Economic Contributing to the local economy PORR makes an important contribution to the development of the local economies on its markets. It improves public infrastructure and influences communities through building construction projects. GRI Management approach ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018, ISO 31000:2009, 102-2 102-15 PORR makes an important contribution to ISO 19600:2015 and ISO 37001). The PORR 103-1 the development of the local economies on its Group’s management approach functions as an 203-1 markets through local branch offices, creating integrated management system and displays all 203-2 and maintaining jobs at home and abroad, of the company’s business, management and SDG 9 investing in research and development, giving support processes. preferential treatment to local suppliers when choosing partners, and through taxes and social Value-added statement GRI 201-1 security contributions. With projects such as In 2019 PORR generated value added of railway construction it improves public EUR 1,313.2m and thereby achieved an increase SDG 9 infrastructure and enriches communities by of 1.8% year on year. Accounting for 94.7%, the building schools and hospitals. PORR is keenly majority of the value added came from the focused on the satisfaction of its relevant PORR staff. stakeholders and takes their interests into account. Sustainable business provides a clear “Green Finance” competitive advantage in the construction In line with the CSR strategy and the commitindustry and is an important pillar of the ment to sustainability, climate protection and PORR strategy. sustainable business development, the PORR Group has produced a contractual framework GRI PORR has a stable core shareholder that for green financing. The company can draw on 103-2 supports the sustainable evolution of the “green financing instruments” for projects that company. The focus is on operating excellence serve to improve energy efficiency and/or and a balanced risk profile. In order to increase reduce the company’s carbon footprint as well efficiency, PORR is expediting the digitalisation as any “eligible green projects” in the environof its business processes. Optimising the use of mental sector. In the year under review, a green resources, developing innovative solutions, and “Schuldscheindarlehen” (“green finance”) of conducting regular audits to receive ISO certifiEUR 31.5m with due dates between 2023 and cation for example, all play a central role, as 2026 was issued. Of this total, EUR 17.5m was does efficient stakeholder engagement. Conalready invested in the “Green Building Portfocepts and measures are developed and implelio” in 2019. EUR 2.7m went to the portfolio that mented by the CSR Unit together with the CSR is financing the new office building in KlagenSteering Committee and the CSR Project Team, furt that was established in 2016 and has been with the direct approval of the CEO. awarded DGNB Platinum. A further EUR 14.8m was invested in “Pollution Prevention and GRI The business units and subsidiaries use Control” and relates to refinancing the acquisi103-3 an Integrated Management System (IMS), tion of the demolition and recycling firm Prajo in that is constantly updated to meet the needs 2014 for EUR 10m as well as the upgrades and of interest groups, markets, policymakers ongoing operations of existing recycling plants and international standards (ISO 9001:2015, in Himberg and Pirka totalling EUR 4.8m. GREEN BUILDINGS 2019 Estimated ex-ante annual energy consumption (kWh) 114,047 Estimated carbon emissions avoided (t CO2 eq) 11.08 24 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Wirtschaft VA LU E CH A IN GRI 102-9 Communication, GROUP STRATEGY, information and training MARKET TESTING ACQUISITION AND TENDER POTENTIAL MANAGEMENT, Planning, design and development CLIENT CONTRACTING Hazard analysis, risk and opportunity Procurement analysis, audits Suppliers: raw materials, auxiliary and construction materials Subcontractors: finishing trade Quality management and building technology, HVAC and assurance, Service providers: designers, environment, architects, consultants etc. occupational health and safety CONSTRUCTION AND PROJECT PREPARATION Energy efficiency evaluation Construction site equipment Site preparation, infrastructure, HANDOVER logistics, deploying personnel TO CLIENTS CONSTRUCTION AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PORR relies on closer collaboration with cooperation partners to ensure sustainability in the s­ upply chain. Products and energy sources used Auxiliary products specific to the environment Raw materials and construction materials: Consumption of raw materials cement, steel, gravel, bitumen, wood, water, Packaging material formwork, insulation materials, scaffolding, plasterboard etc. Noise, dust, emissions, wastewater, waste Materials recycled in-company: including  Temporary use of space for construction site rubble from asphalt and concrete equipment and infrastructure Energy sources: fuels, gas, electricity, district heating PORR Sustainability Report 2019 25 Economic Social and environmental standards in the supply chain We put great emphasis on stable long-term ­relationships with suppliers and on local procurement. Upholding social and environmental standards is at the heart of our activities. GRI Management approach as a control instrument. Any environmental 102-9 103-1 The construction industry has a complex supply incidents or deviations relating to environmenchain due to the high number of suppliers and tal or social issues are marked in the supplier subcontractors. Contractual partners of PORR database in the course of project execution, i.e. supply things like raw materials for construcdealt with directly on the construction site, and tion, equipment and labour. Complex supply evaluated using a traffic-light system. Non-­ chains run the risk of a lack of transparency and adherence to the applicable standards can have make it more difficult to monitor adherence to consequences extending to a ban on the supply the social, environmental and quality standards company. The annual feedback sessions with laid out by the company. This is why sustainable suppliers serve as a further tool for evaluation. supplier management is a top priority at PORR. The supplier basic datasheet, the purchasing Here the focus is on establishing stable, longguidelines and the Code of Conduct for term relationships with suppliers and subconbusiness partners are all evaluated regularly tractors – with strict attention paid to social, and revised where needed in cooperation with environmental and economic considerations. the CSR Unit and the CSR Steering Committee. GRI Reducing the number of suppliers and Guaranteeing sustainability GRI 102-9 103-2 ­using lead buyers for primary goods should standards in the supply chain 308-2 SDG 8 increase quality and trust in regional suppliers. The objective behind the PORR measures is to 414-2 The basic datasheet for suppliers was revised in avoid any negative environmental and social SDG 9 2019 to put an even stronger focus on social, consequences. Environmental negative environmental and economic aspects as well as impacts at PORR result from areas such as the issues like compliance. In addition, a dedicated high levels of transport for construction Code of Conduct mandatory for all business materials and from non-renewable insulation. partners was published. This was expanded The high use of plastics means that packaging with a dedicated set of sustainability criteria for is also often not environmentally friendly. procurement. When evaluating suppliers, Negative social impacts can result from the minimum and exclusion criteria were applied complex supply chains, which run the risk of a even more strongly for the fields of economic, lack of transparency and make it more difficult social and environmental. The guidelines listed to monitor adherence to social, environmental as well as the measurement methods etc. draw and quality standards as laid out by the on work and safety practices, upholding human company. rights or also ecological standards. That said, PORR is bound to abide by the specifications of In order to mitigate these negative impacts, the the client when choosing materials and can only basic datasheet for suppliers was revised in point out the advantages of sustainable prodthe period under review. In addition to the ucts in an advisory capacity. Sustainability contract details, the new version also addresstargets in procurement include the Group-wide es valuations, ratings, international initiatives rollout of SAP MM and the complete coverage like the UN Global Compact, certification or of the ISHAP system for documenting workers. possible procedures related to the environThe focus on the annual stakeholder dialogue mental and social standards of the suppliers. forum in 2019 was on sustainable procurement. Furthermore, issues like the publication of the Sustainability Report, the set of sustainability GRI Supplier evaluation, the supplier managemeasures and the existence of compliance 103-3 ment system and the related database serve procedures were examined. 26 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Economic With the new sustainability criteria for procurement, PORR provides an overview of the focus on sustainable goods procurement as well as sustainability factors in the different groups of goods. This serves as a guide for the Groupwide supplier, subcontractor and service provider segment. Subcontractors are called on to use the criteria and instructions listed as a guide and thereby to enhance sustainability in the procurement sector. Furthermore, the affairs. PORR prioritised careful supplier revised version of the purchasing guidelines selection. For example, in Romania a supplier lays out even more strongly the minimum was replaced because of the higher environstandards to be upheld and monitored in the mental rating (LEED) in relation to the use of fields of environmental and socio-economic recycled construction materials and penalties compliance (e.g. adherence to labour standards) were applied for low environmental protection and contains clear exclusion criteria (e.g. human standards. rights breaches, corruption, unfair operations and business practices etc.). PORR wants to minimise environmental and GRI 204-1 social risks through stable, long-term partnerGRI A stakeholder dialogue forum for sustainable ships. Here the focus of cooperation with SDG 8 102-21 procurement was held for the first time in 2019 suppliers is on local procurement. Depending on and was attended by over 25 representatives of the situation on site – namely the availability of the most important supply firms from various raw materials – over 60% to 99% of purchases areas like energy, steel and construction are made locally from country to country. On materials. After a brief introduction to the average, around 93% of procurement at PORR CSR Unit, the sustainability strategy and the involves local purchases. In this context, local new purchasing organisation was explored in procurement refers to accessing materials, workshops that addressed topics including subcontractors or services in the region in measures to reduce CO2 emissions and to which they are needed. increase transparency in the supply chain. The findings were applied to a set of measures for In Austria in 2019 around 95% of the volumes increased cooperation in the supply chain. procured came from local partner companies. In Germany, local purchases accounted for 89% of GRI The Code of Conduct for business partners lays the procurement budget. In the Czech Republic, 102-16 out clear rules of behaviour in the economic, Poland and Slovakia, around 91% to 98% of 102-17 205-2 social and environmental spheres with the goal materials used were domestic. The share of achieving more sustainability in procurement accounted for by local procurement in Norway SDG 8 and more efficient cooperation in the supply varies greatly depending on the project. On the chain. This is a fixed component for new conlargest Norwegian projects currently underway, tracts and applies equally to groups of suppliers the Minnevika Bridge and the E16 Eggemoen, and subcontractors as well as to service providaround 70% is procured from local suppliers. In ers. It is disseminated in the course of the annuorder to support local industry, PORR Qatar is al feedback sessions, as well as in year-round part of a joint venture known as the Local negotiations and is part of the general purchase Industry Participation Plan. The goal behind all conditions. It is also published on the PORR of these measures is to create sustainable jobs website. and support local companies by strengthening local procurement markets. GRI In the year under review no supplier relation307-1 ships were broken off because of negative impacts related to environmental or social PORR Sustainability Report 2019 27 Economic Ethics and compliance PORR has declared its unconditional commitment to fighting corruption. The Code of Conduct applies equally to employees and business partners throughout the entire value chain. Compliance aspects PORR is certified to ISO 37001 (Anti-bribery management systems) and ISO 19600 ­(Compliance management systems) as well GRI Management approach as ONR 192050 (Compliance management 103-1 Unfair competition and dishonest business systems). The PORR anti-bribery guidelines are practices can damage the image of both PORR – an internal document provided to employees for example in the form of revenue or profit and business partners. In the period under decreases or stock market slumps – and the review, a follow-up audit was conducted and business location. Fair and transparent conduct all of the certification was positively confirmed. is therefore a top priority. Outside of PORR, In the reporting period, 58 out of around 225 GRI adherence to compliance rules is also especially operating sites, offices and production facilities 205-1 important – not least because the value chain in were inspected for corruption risks and no such the industrial sector is characterised by the risks were identified. strong fragmentation of supply companies. In 2019, twelve members of the control body GRI GRI The PORR Group uses a compliance manageacknowledged the fight against corruption 205-2 102-17 ment system that covers relevant aspects through guidelines and procedures. In addition, 103-2 SDG 16 such as anti-corruption, social dumping and 20 senior managers, 1,497 members of middle SDG 16 disseminating information. No services are and lower management and 16,300 staff rendered in countries with a low CPI score members were informed about the anti-bribery (Corruption Perceptions Index: scale 0-100, guidelines. Moreover, regular training was held 0=very corrupt). Employees attend compliance on compliance issues including e-learning, lectures as well as training sessions on anti-­ issuer compliance training and one-on-one bribery and issuer compliance. While the sessions. A total of 20 employees from the Group’s internal Code of Conduct is mandatory senior management level attended anti-bribery for all staff members, the external version training in 2019. 884 employees from the applies to all business partners. The partners middle and lower management level and are also responsible for adherence to the 31 non-management staff attended issuer specifications throughout their respective compliance training. supply chain. Non-adherence can lead to an immediate cessation of the business relaInvestigations have been underway by the GRI tionship through to a ban on further work. The responsible authorities since the start of 2017 206-1 Compliance Officer works closely with the into a range of civil engineering companies, Internal Audit and Legal departments to monitor including PORR Bau GmbH, on suspicion of adherence to the guidelines. Any deviations anti-competitive arrangements. This investigashould be reported to compliance@porr.at tion has not yet been concluded. The company immediately. Breaches related to money is cooperating fully with the authorities. There GRI laundering or financing terrorism can be were no significant fines or non-monetary 419-1 reported anonymously via the internal whistle­sanctions for non-compliance with laws and blower system in accordance with ISO 37001. regulations. At present there are no proceedings GRI pending related to corruption. 205-3 GRI Internal Audit evaluates the efficiency 103-3 of the compliance management system and regularly audits all of the business sites and processes of PORR using spot checks. These reports are then discussed with the Executive Board and extra inspections are carried out where necessary. PORR’s Internal Audit department is subject to regular mandatory external audits. The PORR compliance ­management system is certified to national (ONR 192050) and international standards (ISO 19600, ISO 37001). 28 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Wertschöpfung Wirtschaft PORR CODE OF CONDUCT Fair and constructive GRI 102-16 102-17 cooperation SDG 8, 16 The previously applicable Code of Ethics was revised and is now Observing and adhering to the code is a top priority. This holds available as a Code of Conduct. Together with the PORR Princitrue for every member of staff as well as for our business ples, it provides guidelines for conduct that is morally, ethically partners. Non-compliance incurs appropriate consequences that and legally sound and displays integrity. It also forms the basis for range from criminal penalties and cancellations through to the all corporate activities and decisions within PORR. The PORR immediate termination of the business relationship or a ban on Code of Conduct is valid for all employees and workers in all further work. markets and branch offices and in all subsidiaries. It governs all activities related to work and society as well as dealings with Any breaches of this Code of Conduct can be reported directly to colleagues, customers, suppliers and all other stakeholders. compliance@porr.at. For employees For business partners The PORR Code of Conduct for employees is divided into the An additional priority is defining the cooperation with our chapters Economy, Social and Environment. Under these are business partners across the entire value chain through shared different subheadings that address in detail issues that are values and approaches. That is why, with our PORR Code of important for everyday work processes. In addition to a Conduct for business partners, we call on all business partners description of the topic, an explanation is given as to what this with whom PORR works, or who want to do business with us, to means for individual staff members. This is then followed by a conduct themselves in line with the provisions contained case study that is formulated as a conflict in which the therein, to uphold any local laws, and to behave responsibly. employee could find her or himself. A short clarification explains how one should behave in this conflict situation. Economy Stakeholders Economy Compliance Compliance and Anti-corruption Bribery and Corruption Fair Competition Fair Competition Social Human Rights and Working Conditions Social Health and Safety Human Rights and Working Conditions Training and Development Occupational Health and Safety Diversity and Equal Opportunity Quality and Safety Data Protection and Confidentiality Data Protection and Confidentiality Company Property Company Property Social Engagement Environment Environment Protection of Habitat Protection of Habitat PORR Sustainability Report 2019 29 ENVIRONMENTAL 32 A day with Angelika Wiedner 34 Energy and emissions 38 Waste management 40 Material consumption and recycling 42 Biodiversity and soils 43 Water A day Angelika Wiedner with Always a challenge. A typical day is an alien concept for laboratory apprentice Angelika Wiedner. Her workdays are determined by the construction sites that present the budding expert with new challenges every day. 08:00 Quality counts As part of the quality assurance process for lightweight concrete, Angelika Wiedner determines the pouring density in the morning before the mixing starts. The lightweight concrete is only given the greenlight to be used in the construction once the quality checks are complete. 11:00 Today for tomorrow The recycling material is divided into classes based on the material’s water absorption, its grain shape and its fracture rate. The test results are used to make decisions on the subsequent use of the material. And of course, replacing primary raw materials with recycled materials means that fewer natural resources need to be consumed. 32 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 13:00 A new life One important job done by Angelika Wiedner is monitoring the manufacturing process of rubberised concrete – both in the plant and on the construction site. If necessary, she also applies changes to the recipe. Her work helps give an old product new life and preserves a precious natural resource. 16:00 Ready for graduation The professional challenges for Angelika Wiedner don’t end when the lab closes, as she is currently studying hard for her final apprenticeship exams. That means non-stop learning, even in her own four walls and leisure time. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 33 Environmental Energy and emissions We want to improve our energy efficiency by reducing our energy consumption and emissions. Forwardlooking buildings are setting new demographic shifts, and the application standards in climate protection. of digital building models (Building Information Modelling or BIM for short). Alternative drive systems and energy sources, using next-­ generation construction machinery, a sustai­n­ able and centrally controlled equipment and GRI Management approach fleet management system, as well as the 102-11 With the UN Climate Conference in Paris, modernisation of old production facilities and 103-1 discussions related to sustainability gathered optimised construction site logistics should SDG 7 momentum again at the end of 2015. On the one lead to a continuous increase in energy hand, the Sustainable Development Goals are efficiency and corresponding fall in GHG helping to set new benchmarks, targets and emissions. PORR has set itself the goal of guidelines. On the other hand, the “European cutting its primary energy consumption and Green Deal” is providing further impetus for specifically GHG emissions by at least 1.5% achieving climate neutrality in the European annually by 2020. This corresponds to a 7.5% Union by 2050. The construction and real estate reduction for the period 2015 to 2020. New industries have particular responsibility for principles and measures are developed and environmental and climate protection in light of expanded in direct consultation with the CEO, their high resource consumption. The sector’s the highest internal decisionmaker for high energy consumption, including the use of sustainability and environmental affairs. fossil fuels, largely results from construction site operations, transporting goods and the Environmental protection is a continuous GRI administrative infrastructure. As a sustainable process. That’s why the Environmental and 103-3 company, PORR strives to reduce its energy Energy Officers regularly evaluate and adapt consumption and thereby improve its energy the targets and measures in coordination with efficiency. the CSR Unit and the CSR Steering Committee. Furthermore, PORR is committed to further GRI With buildings that are fit for the future, PORR developing certification systems and imple103-2 is setting new standards in environmental and menting the energy efficiency guidelines, as SDG 7, 9, 13 climate protection. PORR also demands sustainwell as conducting regular energy audits able action from its suppliers and promotes pursuant to ÖNORM EN 16247-1 on the basis future-proof construction standards. The focus of the Austrian Energy Efficiency Act and the here is on maximum climate neutrality, EDL-G in Germany. There are plans to introrecycling resources, the use of renewable duce an energy management system in energy, realising concepts that conform to Austria in 2020. GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN PORR 302-1 (MWh) SDG 7, 9, 13 352,881.25 157.11 Energy for transport – Self-generated energy vehicle fleet 189.50 2019 Stationary energy – renewable 6,730.12 District heating 166,065.15 72,155.93 Stationary energy – Power grid mix non-renewable 34 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Umwelt GRI GHG‑EMISSIONS 1 305-1 (t) 305-2 2019 305-3 Direct GHG emissions related to energy (Scope 1) 123,048.58 Indirect GHG emissions related to energy (Scope 2) 24,566.62 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 2 2,640.07 1 Calculations are based on the legal, country-specific calculation key 2 Data relate to flights, rail travel and car rentals GRI Energy consumption and emissions 302-1 The energy data shown covers the energy 302-4 302-5 consumption of PORR locations including production sites (majority-owned) as well as SDG 7, 9, 13 construction machinery and equipment. Recording the energy consumption on construction sites is a work in progress. In 2019 For the other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3), GRI PORR reduced its energy consumption by 7.1% PORR reports emissions generated by flights, 305-3 to 598,179.06MWh (2018: 644,180MWh). Energy train travel, the use of rental cars and business consumption in relation to production output travel. Emissions already covered by Scope 1 stood at 0.108MWh/TEUR. The most important are excluded. The respective GHG emissions for energy source by far was diesel – followed by 2019 amounted to 2,640.07t compared to gas, electricity and heating oil. In light of this, 2,034t in the previous year. PORR focuses its measures to increase efficiency primarily on construction vehicles Equipment and fleet management GRI and machinery. Optimising construction The goal of PORR Equipment Services (PES) 302-4 305-5 operations, which is linked to decarbonising is to bundle all equipment and vehicles into construction processes, is another focal point. Group-owned companies. Group-wide stan­ SDG dardisation should reduce the variety of makes 7, 9, 13 GRI The overwhelming use of fossil fuels meant and types and subsequently lead to a reduction 305-1 that GHG emissions showed a similar trajectory in airborne emissions. After Austria, Germany 305-5 to energy consumption. In 2019 a total of and Czech Republic, this will be rolled out to all 123,048.58t of CO2 equivalent Scope 1 was PORR home markets. To achieve sustainable generated by operations (2018: 136,738). efficiency increases and a reduction in airborne emissions in the Group’s equipment manageGRI In order to reduce GHG emissions, PORR ment, PES relies on three core elements: 305-5 implemented a range of measures in 2019, the transparency in results thanks to clear year under review. These included a reduction allocation, synergic effects through bundling in fuel consumption through the ongoing reresponsibilities, and defining technical placement of the fleet, the use of next-generastandards for equipment and vehicles. tion construction machinery and improvements in production facilities. PORR is also contributThe current data relates to Austria, Germany ing to climate action through staff training, and the Czech Republic and covers all compaholding video conferences to reduce travel and nies in which the Group holds an interest of using low-pollution products. more than 50%. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 35 Environmental SDG 7, 9, 13 On-road equipment (cars, pick-ups, Off-road equipment light commercial vehicles) (construction equipment) Since 1 September 2018, the exhaust gas and PORR only purchases construction equipment test procedure for passenger cars of the NEDC that conforms to the best available emissions (New European Driving Cycle) has been superstandards on the market. This should lead to a seded EU-wide by the WLTP (Worldwide Harfurther reduction in pollutant emissions. All monised Light-Duty Vehicle Test Procedure), equipment with an operator seat has been fitted which has an impact on the data for 2019. Since with an automatic start-stop function, in order that time, all new vehicles require type approval to significantly reduce idle time and operating under the measurement methods of WLTP. hours. This has also led to a decrease in pollutant emissions as well an extension in the interSince 1 September 2019, all light commercial vals needed for maintenance. Overall, the equipvehicles also need type approval in accordance ment can be operated in a more economical and with the WLTP. This method determines vehicle energy-efficient way. consumption under more realistic conditions, so that the average consumption values shown are Emissions performance of around 20% higher. mobile construction equipment In 2019, PES and its subsidiaries managed To consider the current tax aspects applicable mobile construction equipment with a total in the different EU countries, the old NEDC output of 266,571kW. The increase in the method is being used during the transition to equipment’s output is mainly due to the back-calculate approximate values. Depending expansion of the product groups evaluated. on the vehicle considered, CO2 emissions have Small-scale equipment in the class <18kW is already increased by several percentage points. now included for output purposes. These back-calculated NEDC values are currently still being used as a basis – both for In order to compare the emissions of ozone-­ GRI determining the fleet consumption of individual depleting substances (HC) and other significant 305-6 305-7 manufacturers and for calculating the Austrian airborne emissions (CO, NOx, PM), the relationstandard consumption tax and the amount of ship between each kW and the respective any benefit in kind. pollutant is shown. Despite the significant increase in output, there was a decrease in GRI Streamlining the vehicle matrix and acquiring exhaust emissions. This was thanks to the 302-4 more energy-efficient vehicles under considerupgrading of the equipment park and invest305-5 ation of the CO2 emissions had led to a reducments in construction equipment in the best tion in CO2 emissions. Excluding the change in emissions class. measuring method (i.e. applying approximate back-calculation), CO2 emissions decreased by 74.2t in 2019. As of 1 January 2020, the back-calculation using NEDC will come to an end and only the (higher) WLTP values will be permitted for calculating the Austrian standard consumption tax and the amount of any benefit in kind. Measures to reduce the energy consumption of on and off-road equipment The fleet of cars (on-road equipment) is maintained at state-of-the-art levels in terms of exhaust standards, consumption and airborne emissions. Shortening the period in use and thereby replacing the fleet more frequently allows the application of additional measures to reduce fuel consumption. When acquiring new construction equipment, PORR only GRI buys off-road equipment that conforms to the best 302-4 available emissions standards on the market. The “automatic-stop function for construction ­equipment” project is being consistently implemented. There are plans to purchase additional electric cars and construction equipment with electric drives, as well as hybrid construction vehicles. The consistent use of Skype conferencing is increasingly leading to a fall in travel to the branch offices and headquarters. In addition, train travel is a common alternative to driving. This helps to reduce emissions. 36 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental GRI Sustainable buildings and constructions 102-11 PORR is setting new standards in environmental 302-5 and climate protection with its forward-looking SDG 7, 11, 13 construction methods and buildings. Buildings generate emissions in every phase of their lifecycle, emissions that go into the air, water and soil and have an array of different impacts. Lifecycle assessments when designing buildings should help to reduce environmental impacts caused by emissions. With the help of lifecycle assessment data, these emissions are calculated across the entire lifecycle and evaluated. Where possible, the lifecycle assessment should be applied during the design phase and thereby serve as a key instrument for optimising the environmental quality of the building. The basis for calculating the lifecycle impact of a building is DIN EN 15978. GRI Projects involving sustainability certificates 416-1 have particularly high requirements in terms of 416-2 user health and building safety. All legal stipulaSDG 3 tions are met on PORR construction projects. Disabled access is ensured throughout on all of the new builds of property owned by the Group. When renovating existing buildings, disabled access is provided where structurally possible. GRI In terms of GHG potential in the year under 305-5 review, 2019, the building construction projects SDG 7, 13 designed and built by PORR were 14% more efficient in terms of CO2 than the industry average and required around 55% less primary energy from non-renewables. Building certification is a proven method for meeting sustainability targets. In addition to the useful sustainability performance of buildings, the chance of renting or selling the space is maximised. In 2019 there were 23 PORR projects awarded sustainability certificates, of which 20 were for PORR Design & Engineering, PDE for short. Included here were, in Germany, the Berlin Campus Zalando (DGNB Gold) and Leuchtenbergring in Munich (LEED Gold), as well as in Austria Quartier Belvedere Central in Vienna (DGNB Platinum, LEED Platinum) and PEMA III in Innsbruck (LEED Gold). Moreover, the project Business Garden in Bucharest achieved LEED Platinum, one of the top three awards worldwide. In addition, several dozen projects are in the process of being certified. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 37 Environmental Waste management GRI Management approach ations, which arises in the course of operating 103-1 Together with excavated soil, construction and offices, production sites and workshops, demolition waste make up 75% of all waste represents the second largest waste source. volumes as every construction activity results in PORR strives to reduce these waste volumes large quantities of construction-specific waste. and separate any unavoidable waste in a way The majority of this is mineral waste – especially that allows high-grade recycling. That said, on demolition projects or when refurbishing the actual disposal route is in the hands of buildings. This waste can damage the ecosysthe certified party responsible for disposal and tem and incur significant disposal costs. As a is determined by the choice of the disposal sustainable company, PORR is committed to company in certain cases. In Austria the avoiding or reducing any negative impact on Environmental and Waste Network provides a the environment. It treats waste as a form of platform for the efficient exchange of experisecondary raw materials that can be fed back ence and knowhow transfer. It proactively into the construction process. involves every department in order to achieve a long-term reduction in waste generated. GRI Mineral construction waste, industrial waste Environmental protection is a focal point of the 103-2 and contaminated soil is treated in PORR’s PORR sustainability strategy as well as in the 306-2 own waste recycling and treatment plants and Codes of Conduct for employees and business SDG 12 through targeted research and development. partners respectively. Recycling methods are developed in the Environmental Laboratory for many different The Group’s internal Environmental and Waste GRI 103-3 types of waste with different levels of contamiNetwork works with the CSR Unit to evaluate nation. The objectives here are to keep reusable the current state of the measures and revise the waste in the circular economy, reduce the approach if necessary. Alongside this, environimpact of pollutants and ensure the proper mental management is part of the Integrated disposal of any waste that cannot be recycled. Management System (IMS), which is certified to 14001:2015 at SQS (Reg. Nr. 40247) and incorpoAlongside waste from construction and demolirates environmental aspects into all material tion, the waste generated through PORR’s opercorporate decision-making processes. 38 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Waste reporting Reducing waste volumes is a key focal point in optimising the use of resources. 9,152.27t or 92.5% of the Group’s total waste volumes were categorised as non-hazardous in the period under review. The PORR waste reporting covers sites used for the company’s own business in Germany, Norway, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, UAE and Austria. As projects in Qatar were already handed over in 2018 or were in the final stage of completion in 2019, no waste volumes were generated there. The waste amounts could not be recorded for every PORR site as traceable documentation of waste volumes was not possible at certain sites owing to joint disposal GRI arrangements with other companies. In the year 306-3 under review there were no significant leaks of hazardous materials. Rehabilitating and making safe contaminated sites Making safe and rehabilitating contaminated sites is an important focal point for PORR. In the period under review environmental clean-up work was done on the contaminated site K22 “Lederfabrik Dr. Hans Neuner”, an old tannery in the heart of Klagenfurt, Carinthia, that had been A rehabilitation system is in operation at an operating since 1922 and had produced trivalent operating site in Vienna Simmering. On a total chromium from hexavalent chromium. This area of 120,000m², the contaminated site – method and the remnants of the war had tar and tar products were responsible for the caused significant contamination of the soil. contamination – has been made safe by means PORR was hired to clear out and gut all of the of being enclosed in cut-off walls with five filter buildings along with their decontamination and windows and additional measures in the form of subsequent demolition. Materials recycling, seven safety wells and a groundwater purificainstalling a groundwater purification plant and tion unit. Rehabilitation of the contaminated site rehabilitating the contaminated soil is also part is being realised continuously. The filter window of PORR’s purview. The waste volumes are is filled with active charcoal and purifies the around 18,405.24t, the rehabilitation involves groundwater that flows through it at a rate of a total area of 53,020m². The work was still approximately 125,000m³ a year. Additional underway at the time of publication of this measures mean that around 95,000m³ a year report. of groundwater that had previously been pumped uphill is purified using an active charcoal filter. This adds up to a total of 220,000m³ of water purified. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 39 Environmental Material consumption and recycling GRI Management approach incorporation of environmental aspects into all 102-11 103-1 In the construction industry, the greatest impact relevant processes and into entrepreneurial on the environment comes from the demand for decision-making should be secured and moniconstruction materials, alongside energy contored at regular intervals. The focus of environsumption. With this in mind and in light of the mental management and of the environment growing scarcity of resources, PORR is commitexperts who make up the environmental netted to circular economies and its underlying work lies in optimising the use of resources – in principle “reuse, repair, recycle”. The focus is on particular by steadily increasing recycling rates high resource efficiency, better use of materials, and reducing waste volumes – and in the annual the development of new construction materials assessment of the measures implemented, with and methods, as well as more efficient conany adjustments made where necessary. struction-site logistics – a significant cost and competitiveness factor in the construction Focus on recycling GRI 301-1 business. Last but not least, reusing raw materiInnovative methods should improve the con301-2 als can mitigate procurement risks such as struction properties of recycled material. In those related to supply bottlenecks or cost of 2019 the PORR’s recycled waste across the SDG 12, 15 materials. A responsible approach to resources Group totalled 3.8m tonnes (2018: 1.2m tonnes). and the clear commitment to environmental This figure is subject to sharp fluctuations that protection form an important pillar of the PORR can depend on the application options on sustainability strategy. large-scale projects for example, as well as the various levels of contamination of mineral-­ GRI PORR’s goal is to reuse as much material as based construction rubble, e.g. excavated 103-2 possible and thereby steadily increase the material that is used as a feedstock. SDG 12, 15 percentage of recycled construction materials and further develop methods that preserve PORR currently has 17 sites in Austria at which resources. To this end, PORR has a number of construction materials are recycled. In 2019 plants in which recycled construction materials around 1.5m tonnes of recycled construction and secondary materials can be produced in rubble was produced here from mineral-based guaranteed quality and is constantly expanding construction rubble – especially from asphalt, them. In order to achieve optimum results and concrete, rubble and natural stone. Furtherrealise synergic effects, the Group’s entire more, in 2019 around 310,000t of construction knowhow in the field of technology-based rubble and excavated material was processed environmental protection is bundled in PORR into recycled construction materials on various Umwelttechnik (PUT) and in the Centre of construction sites. Quality assurance is a critical Excellence for Resources. PORR also promotes factor in terms of environmental credentials the issue of recycling in the research and and construction properties and that is why it is development sector. Here materials that were overseen by accredited testing and inspection previously classified as waste and sent to bodies. The majority of the construction rubble landfill should be converted into valuable recycled by PORR is reused on construction construction materials. In addition, PORR is sites and in asphalt mix plants, whereby working on innovative methods to improve the demand for primary raw materials has technical construction properties of recycled ­declined considerably. materials. For the production of asphalt, in 2019 in GRI Environmental management is part of the Austria 59,077.72t of primary raw materials such 103-3 Integrated Management System (IMS), which as stone and bitumen were substituted with is certified to 14001:2015 at the SQS (Reg. Nr. construction material recycled by the company, 40247) and facilitates the implementation of along with 20,913.09t in Poland and 17,264.00t a Group-wide environment policy that takes in the Czech Republic. into account all legal specifications. Here the 40 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Umwelt GRI Science and technology 301-2 PORR is playing a valuable part in conserving resources and protecting the environment with projects to recycle construction rubble and to use secondary raw materials from the metals industry. Furthermore, the use of raw materials with a lower carbon footprint opens up new market opportunities. For example, in tunnel construction compounds containing excavated material from the tunnel are used as material in the construction. As a result, millions of tonnes of stone do not require disposal and the same amount does not need to be mined from quarries. In addition, local recycling of excavated material also leads to significant reductions in transport and energy consumption at the construction site. Construction-site logistics is a key topic for increasing efficiency. Here digital solutions are materials such as cement or chemical compobeing developed that allow construction pronents that had been used in sealing walls until cesses to be more precisely controlled. These now – marks the world’s first material for sealing tools have already been rolled out successfully that is purely organic. One major advantage of in the road construction sector in Austria and the organic soft gel is that it can be injected or Germany. They are under development for pumped directly into the ground as does not tunnelling, building construction, earthworks have any negative impact on groundwater such and structural engineering. as increasing pH levels, salt seepage or similar. PORR is proactively engaged in innovations in Another research and innovation project from various areas, whereby the focus is on the enviPORR relates to environmentally friendly ronment, developing alternative construction heating systems. The project is called giga-TES materials and methods, optimising the use of (Thermal Energy Storage) and addresses the resources, and rehabilitating contaminated soils. seasonal energy storage that should be realised in urban structures for their district heating One of many research projects in building systems. The consortium consists of more than construction was 3D-Stat. This has facilitated 15 partners from different spheres such as a significant reduction in the use of cement, universities, private companies and energy concrete and armouring, whereby the load-bearproviders. The PORR departments for specialist ing properties and strength remain above the civil engineering as well as technology manageminimum values specified by EU norms. The ment & innovation are involved in developing 3D-Stat project was even named as one of the large heat storage tanks to allow up to 2m cubic finalists for the “2019 TÜV Science Award” in metres of hot water to be stored at 95°C. Great Austria. attention is being paid to the heat-retaining properties of the construction as the providers SDG 9 2019 also saw an organic soft gel developed in a strive to minimise any thermal losses. Field PORR research project receive approval for use testing is a key part of the research project in in Germany. The main application of the organic order to gather experience with innovative soft gel is for producing horizontal and vertical construction methods and materials. In 2019, GRI seals for concrete troughs. The completely PORR received EUR 3.5m in public subsidies 201-4 organic soft gel – which replaces construction for research and investments. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 41 Environmental Biodiversity and soils GRI Management approach The environmental management system is part GRI 103-1 103-3 Biodiversity is essential for the health and of the Integrated Management System (IMS), wellbeing of the population and the generations which is certified to 14001:2015 at the SQS to come. It is also of critical importance in (Reg. Nr. 40247). The goal of the system is to economic terms. As a construction company, implement a Group-wide environmental policy, PORR contributes to building up, using, and taking into account all legal specifications. Here paving over the surface of the earth. This then the environmental impacts are determined for leads to a reduction in space, impacts the reguall relevant processes, comprehensive proteclatory function the soil has on the atmosphere tive measures for mitigation are approved and and on the natural water balance, exacerbates their implementation is monitored at regular climate change and finally damages biodiverintervals. sity. By adhering to mandatory environmental regulations and other specific measures, the PORR does not have a direct influence on GRI 304-1 negative impacts on the environment should be biodiversity at its respective premises as these 304-2 kept to a minimum. PORR’s sphere of influence are generally in commercial areas and not in is limited as sustainable construction starts places with high levels of biodiversity. Negative SDG 15 even before the project development phase, impacts can arise indirectly from transporting namely at the stage of urban planning and materials or when building roads and railways – zoning. Here the local (construction) authorities including in the course of bridge construction hold ultimate responsibility in coordination with in Norway. In general, preventing negative the developers. However, PORR is intensively environmental impacts is the responsibility of involved in expert work at national and European the commissioning authority or client. In the level to further align the construction industry period under review no living organisms were towards the sustainable use of natural resourcendangered in the respective regions thanks to es, from the design and build via usage through comprehensive protective measures. to demolition and recycling of the materials generated and through the use of secondary The renaturation of habitats is undertaken on GRI raw materials in construction. behalf of and commissioned by a third party as 304-3 the sites remain under the ownership of the GRI As a sustainable company, PORR strives to client. That said, all measures are generally 103-2 optimise the lifecycle of its projects in terms of overseen and monitored by specialised experts. SDG 15 economic, environmental and socio-cultural considerations. In addition to the useful sustainPORR contributes to enhancing biodiversity by GRI ability performance of buildings, this maximises greening roofs, causeways and recultivating 304-4 the chance of renting or selling the space. The landfill sites. This is because, on the one hand, greening of rooftops creates replacement habithe substrate is produced using secondary raw tats and retention basins for the rain. Furthermaterials like excavated soil and recycled more, on EIA (Environmental Impact Assessconstruction materials, on the other hand, the ment) projects, compensatory measures are structures themselves have been improved in often laid out for landfills and stone quarries. these ways. These special sites also benefit The contact partners when it comes to protectfrom site-appropriate planting of friendly types ing the environment are PORR Umwelttechnik of flora. This not only encourages biodiversity (PUT), the Environmental Lab and the internal (insects, birds and wild animals), but also Environment Officer. The range of services here makes the habitats more attractive for every includes determining and investigating user. With the initiative “bee@PORR”, PORR is contaminated sites including taking samples also taking action against bee deaths and and studying them, through to reinforcement supporting beekeepers by housing beehives measures and environmental clean-up. The and colonies on the Group’s properties. Under issue of environmental protection is anchored in the motto “Bee aware and care”, there have the PORR sustainability strategy as well as in been more than 400 beehives at PORR sites the Codes of Conduct for employees and since 2017, providing a home to more than business partners respectively. 20 million bees. 42 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Water GRI Management approach Water consumption GRI 103-1 303-3 303-1 Varying amounts of water are needed both for Water as a raw material has been integrated 303-5 construction activities and at production into internal resource management. PORR facilities (e.g. bitumen mix plants) as well as at operates wastewater treatment plants and SDG demolition sites. Water and wastewater are soil-washing plants including water treatment 6, 15 used as resources consumed or waste generatunits. High indirect water consumption is ed respectively, and groundwater and mountain incurred with ready-mixed concrete. The water water are accessed in the course of excavation is taken from the public network and fed back works or underground construction (tunnelling). into the public sewage system. Water withIn building construction and civil engineering, drawn by the Group totalled 2,257.56Ml in 2019, the main use of water is as an ingredient in whereby around half of this was surface water fresh concrete. Even though the construction withdrawn. PORR strives to minimise water industry uses significantly less water than in consumption and usage intensity. The goals set water-intensive industries like the textiles or for water consumption are determined in food and drinks sector, PORR is aware of the cooperation with the responsible authorities responsibility it has to society to preserve this taking into account any legal requirements as valuable resource. With this in mind, the raw well as the specifications from designs and material water has been added to the internal permits. They also incorporate natural science resource management agenda. considerations, technological aspects and new developments in design. GRI The water policy forms an important basis on 103-2 which to work. The Water Officer evaluates the As water is a scarce resource in Qatar and the SDG 6, 15 water consumption of the PORR Group together UAE, special measures have been taken here. In with the centre of excellence for resources. The Qatar, PORR has developed a Water Resource areas with the highest specific water consumpPlan (WRPlan) under which the recommendation are then addressed with the CSR Unit, the tions of the EIA report (Environmental Impact Environmental Network and the Research and Assessment Report) are implemented and its Development Team to find solutions for provisions are upheld. One of the provisions reducing water use and measures for recycling included by the suppliers is that the use of water. Depending on the location and size of drinking water should be avoided for constructhe construction project, water on construction tion purposes. Regular training sessions are sites is provided by means of water hydrants or held to communicate regulatory requirements wells, which are jointly used by all companies and guidelines passed by the Ministry of the working on site. It is not possible at present to Environment. accurately calculate the levels of water consumption for the PORR construction sites. PORR Water recirculation GRI 303-2 has currently restricted itself to recording water Wastewater is fed into the public sewage 303-4 consumption at its offices and production sites. network, the standards for which are laid down Wastewater is fed into the public sewage by law on the PORR markets. In 2019 there were SDG 6 network or treated in reservoirs before being no bodies of water that were significantly disposed of properly. affected by wastewater discharge. Information on the operating site in Simmering and the GRI Together with their networks, the Water Officer related groundwater treatment is given in the 103-3 regularly assesses the status quo of the section on Rehabilitating and making safe measures implemented and, where necessary, contaminated sites. The total volume of wasterevises the approach and the internal water water discharged in the period under review policy. In addition, the environmental managestood at 1,689.93Ml (2018: 498.70Ml). PORR ment system pursuant to ISO 14001:2015 makes follows the principle of maximising wastewater an important contribution to incorporating quality and minimising wastewater quantity and environmental aspects into corporate decisions therefore does not introduce any foreign and evaluating them periodically. substances into the wastewater. PORR analyses water samples in accordance with the stipulated sampling plan in order to determine and prove adherence to the maximum discharge values. The PORR Group is not aware of any incidents involving the breach of specified discharge levels. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 43 SOCIAL 46 A day with Mirjam Willems 48 Health and safety 52 Further education and training 55 Upholding human rights and employment 57 Diversity and equal opportunities A day Mirjam Willems with Organisation is everything. For Safety Officer Mirjam Willems no two days are the same. And yet, organised processes and keeping sight of the bigger picture are essential in her work. They are the top priority for every PORRian. 11:00 Site inspection During the walkaround of the construction site with the site management, trade 07:00 inspectors, the social accident insurance Training institution for the building industry, the developers, the site inspectors and any subcontractors, Mirjam Willems points out any deficiencies – with the goal of remedyTogether with the foreman or site manager, ing them immediately. If that isn’t possible, Mirjam Willems holds a toolbox training session the problematic areas are recorded after the for her colleagues. When work begins on a new inspection. Par for the course, as Mirjam construction site, she supports the project Willems has been a fixed feature of the managers and site supervisors even before the PORR team for twelve years. site opens and provides guidance on everything to do with occupational health and safety. 46 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 14:00 Construction site documentation Many of Mirjam Willems’ projects are large-scale contracts for which she needs to be on the construction site two days in a row. The longstanding expert checks whether the proscribed organisation and processes are actually being upheld. If that’s not the case, then she works with the site managers to rectify this. She also checks that all of the occupational health and safety documentation is properly completed on the construction site – from the walkaround through to hazard identification. 17:00 Safety first The workday of Mirjam Willems ends when every colleague is home safe and sound. Her personal goal – increasing awareness of health and safety – is something she strives to achieve through talks, written instructions and training sessions. Together with the site teams, she works on implementing solutions before anything bad happens. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 47 Social Health and safety Our focus is on creating a safe working environment. Measures for workplace health promotion should help to enhance performance and sustainably improve our competitive position. worked by 2020. Regular further education and training sessions aim to raise awareness of GRI Management approach occupational health and safety in the operation103-1 The health and safety of its staff members are al units and sustain­ably embed these issues especially crucial to PORR as – in addition to among managers. The importance of worker personal injury and damages – accidents at protection is accorded great importance already work can incur civil-law and economic conseduring apprentice training. Cross-country quences such as criminal proceedings, damage coordination and agreement ensure health and to the company’s image, construction delays safety standards are upheld throughout the and impact the company’s ability to compete. Group. When executing construction activities, Targeted prevention measures aim to prevent the health and safety of any neighbours or local any excess stress or adverse mental and traffic users is guaranteed at all times thanks to physical effects on employees. effective protective measures, implemented in close cooperation with the developers. In GRI Already in 2015, the Executive Board and the addition to the Occupational Health and Safety 103-2 Works Council signed the PORR Safety Charter, Unit, which reports directly to the Executive SDG 3 thereby committing to proactive hazard prevenBoard, the Workplace Health Promotion GRI tion and health promotion. With Vision Zero, the Team – which is part of the CSR Unit – is 403-6 accident frequency rate should be reduced to responsible for planning, implementing and SDG 3 fewer than ten accidents per million hours evaluating behavioural and situational measures to promote good health. The Workplace Health Promotion Team improves the wellbeing of staff members, avoids sickness in the workplace and con­tributes to a sustainable working environment that promotes good health. The measures under Vision Zero, as well as the training in occupational health and safety, workplace health promotion and apprentice training are all anchored in the PORR sustainability strategy. The standard ISO 45001 is valid across GRI the whole Group – applying to all staff members, 103-3 403-1 all activities and all sites – and describes the 403-8 requirements of a modern occupational health and safety system, bringing together the asSDG 3 pects of occupational safety with promoting good health in the workplace. The implementation and effectiveness of the defined targets in occupational health and safety and workplace health promotion are monitored by the uppermost management in coordination meetings held four times a year. Measures are evaluated, assessed for their efficiency and effectiveness on the basis of practical experience, and adapted where necessary. 48 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Social Occupational safety GRI The Occupational Health and Safety Unit strives Risk prevention GRI 403-4 403-2 403-7 to provide every staff member in the PORR Increased awareness of occupational safety Group with a safe work environment. In pursuit led to another significant increase in hazardous SDG 3 SDG 3 of this, it works on targeted measures to situations reported in the period under review. In improve safety and security at work in regular the course of risk assessment, any actual and coordination meetings with the management potential hazards are identified at the construcand in close cooperation with the health and tion sites and in the operating sites and the safety managers of the international subsid­ related risks are assessed. The assessment is iaries. Comprehensive checks, training and a the responsibility of the respective manager prior reporting system for near-misses and hazardto the start of any construction site operations – ous situations should reduce the accident with the support provided by the responsible frequency rate. Safety Officers if necessary. In this way, technical health and safety issues are dealt with in meetIn the period under review, more than 54 fullings with everyone involved in the project before time Safety Officers were employed. They are any construction activity begins. responsible for ensuring health and safety standards are upheld and that the respective In addition, staff members can report any GRI GRI measures are implemented on the construction situational or work-related hazards – anony403-4 403-3 sites. In addition, independent health practitionmously or to the responsible manager, as they SDG 3 ers are deployed, and they work closely with the prefer. This reporting option gives staff a Safety Officers and the Works Council, which significant role in the development, implemenalso deals with health and safety issues as part tation and evaluation of the management of its mandate to protect staff. Like the Safety system. Information relevant to occupational Officers, the Vocational Health Practitioners health and safety protection is provided in a regularly visit construction sites in order to health and safety protection document that is check if health and safety directives are being accessible to every staff member. observed and to introduce appropriate mea­ sures if necessary. On the PORR markets, there Work-related hazards and dangerous situations are cooperation initiatives in place with Vocacan be recorded by construction site personnel tional Health Practitioners (e.g. in Germany) and in the “potential hazards notebook”. With the with healthcare providers (e.g. in Norway). introduction of the “LMRA” (Last Minute Risk Analysis) chart in Germany, for example, Occupational health and safety committees have employees are encouraged to evaluate their been set up in the line organisation. The current situation in terms of health and safety. committee members are middle and lower The rollout of this system to other countries is managers, works council representatives, securibeing prepared. ty providers and safety officers. The committees meet at least once a year. Furthermore, a central Depending on their PORR management level, Occupational Health and Safety Committee is supervisors need to complete a set number of convened once a year. The members are those “Safety Walks” on the construction sites. In responsible from upper management, at least the course of these walks, the Safety Officers one representative from each business unit, the recommend possible measures to mitigate any head of the Human Resources department, the risks and hazards identified. The supervisor head of the Quality Management department, oversees the status of whether the tasks have the delegated Works Council ­representative, the been completed after handover to the site head and the deputy of the Occupational Health management. All measures are regularly asand Safety department, as well as a Vocational sessed in terms of their effectiveness. In generHealth Practitioner. al, employees on the construction sites receive intensive support from a network of safety experts. A strong focus on health and safety is also instilled in the apprentices. Apprentices under the age of 18 are forbidden from handling dangerous substances. The responsible foreman is responsible for ensuring adherence to this rule. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 49 Social GRI Digital safety topic. This standard should be guaranteed both 403-2 The paperless construction site is also a on the construction site and in the recreational priority when it comes to occupational health areas, washroom facilities and office containers. and safety. The goal is to digitise existing In terms of cleaning, care is taken to use cleanprocesses relating to health and safety. In 2019 ing agents that are as sustainable and as enviin Austria a health and safety application was ronmentally friendly as possible. published to this end. It was developed by PORR itself and has a multitude of uses. In addition to Safety training GRI 403-5 recording, processing, evaluating and tracking, Education specific to the various functions is it also allows documentation to be kept, incigenerally implemented on the basis of the PORR SDG 3 dents to be processed more quickly, and easier training matrix. Administrative and operational tracking of health and safety data. Both the employees receive training on occupational “Safety Walks” by managers and the inspechealth and safety matters at least once a year. tions by Safety Officers can be done in a way In addition, managers in the technical sphere that is standardised, uncomplicated and recordhave to complete health and safety training in ed in real time. The health and safety app has the form of seven selected e-learning modules. facilitated comprehensive evaluations as well as Practical health and safety training is also a simpler reports and statistics. For example, the fixed component of apprentice training. Across “Safety Alert” was developed using the findings the Group, there are regular health and safety of the relevant accidents at work and hazardous campaigns addressing different focal points. situations reported. Here a short and simple illustration is used to show how an accident or More specialised training is provided based on hazardous situation arose and how this can be the staff member’s activities and function, e.g. prevented in a targeted way. The “Safety Alerts” handling self-propelled equipment, personal are disseminated using a top-down process and protective gear to prevent falls, entering conall staff members are notified. In future it should tainers and cramped spaces etc. Furthermore, also be possible to produce reports of potential the evaluation of incidents that occurred and hazards via the mobile device. A rollout of the the hazardous situations reported are taken into Austrian health and safety application to account and topic-based training is provided on additional countries is planned. these issues four times a year. In this way, the following special topics were addressed on GRI Measures for accident prevention selected PORR markets in 2019: “Field of vision 403-7 Comprehensive measures have been implewith construction machinery”, “Safe access to SDG 3 mented in the PORR Group to ensure that all workshops”, “Working at great heights”, “Constaff members have comprehensive protection. crete works” and “Working the night shift”. There are clear quality criteria in place for hiring potential subcontractors and suppliers with the Accident frequency performance GRI 403-9 goal of keeping to a minimum any safety risks The accident frequency rate – an important from business relationships even before work performance indicator in this field – is presented begins. Access to construction sites is not from page 83. A good figure reflects a positive permitted for outside parties unless they are occupational health and safety performance and informed in advance about the hazards and is a key competitiveness factor. While the rate of risks – such as acknowledging and adhering to documented work-related injuries declined in the requisite protective measures and wearing Poland, Romania, Switzerland and Austria, it was the proper protective gear. Technical equipment unchanged in Qatar. Germany, Norway, the and tools are inspected and serviced within the Czech Republic and Slovakia reported an legally proscribed maintenance intervals and increase. In light of the different calculation manufacturer recommendations. This obligation models resulting from varying client requirealso applies to tools and equipment from subments and the respective national regulations, contractors and suppliers. Adherence to a the figure given should be considered an certain level of hygiene is another important approximate rate. 50 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Social Workplace health promotion GRI PORR strives to protect the health of its smoking cessation courses are also available 403-4 workforce and to this end offers employees a if necessary. With its seasonal “bike to work” 403-6 range of options related to sport and movement, initiative, PORR Suisse motivates its employees SDG 3 nutrition and mental health. The measures are to get on their bikes and cycle to work. There managed by the project team for Workplace is a diverse range of offers across the Group, Health Promotion. In the field of sport and tailored to the needs in different countries. A movement, training rooms are provided at the particularly innovative project was planned for Vienna headquarters and both virtual training 2019: from 2020, staff on the multi-year project and live courses are held here. At larger sites the Brenner Base Tunnel have access to a with their own canteens, the range of food on fitness container with cardio and strength offer is regularly evaluated and expanded or equipment. changed if needed. Here PORR ensures a wide range of nutritional sustenance is provided. PORR addresses good health promotion already GRI 403-5 in the apprentice training phase. In their first An advisory Centre for Mental Health and and second year, the apprentices complete Conflict Resolution is available to promote good health training. Interactive courses explore mental health among staff members in addition topics such as the proper way to lift and carry, to regular talks on topics such as burnout for sun protection, preventing addiction, balancing example. exercises and healthy nutrition, especially on the construction site. Numerous measures are in place to ensure uniform hygiene standards on the construction Salaried employees and waged workers sites. For example, pictograms are used to show have access to the different workplace health hygiene standards, which are checked in the promotion services via the PORR intranet, the course of regular site inspections. In addition, PORRtal, the TOOLIO information platform, PORR signed new framework agreements for articles in the employee magazine reporrt and Austria in the year under review, which specify other information campaigns. On top of this, the that only mobile toilets with dispensers for Workplace Health Promotion Team works closely disinfectant are used. Another focal point in with the construction site managers to commuAustria was on smoking cessation programmes nicate the offers available in person. in cooperation with the health insurance providers, which were attended by more than 50 people. Health days were also held to address topics like back health and the cardiovascular system, also in cooperation with local partners. In Poland and Romania PORR finances levels of healthcare provision via private medical providers. Medical cover for family members is also available at attractive conditions. Further offers include first aid training outside the company or workshops on a “therapeutic diet”. PORR Suisse offers its employees discounts on annual membership of fitness centres and sports facilities for example. Cheaper entry to fitness studios is also offered in Germany, where seminars on back health and PORR Sustainability Report 2019 51 Social Further education and training Our employees and workers secure our success. That is why we are committed to ongoing HR development and nurturing individual strengths and competencies. GRI Management approach Training GRI 103-1 404-1 In light of the increasing shortage of skilled The comprehensive measures for further 404-3 labour, PORR’s focus is on HR development. education and training continued in the period Individually nurturing and developing strengths under review. The average number of training SDG 4 and competencies of individual staff members hours in 2019 stood at 15.16 for female staff should preserve the company’s talent for (2018: 14.38) and at 12.51 for male staff (2018: innovation as well as safeguarding knowhow 12.66). The performance review – an important and further increasing competitiveness. tool for individual development – was completed by 92.1% of female staff (2018: 85.4%) and GRI The training platform porr_academy gives staff 84.8% of male staff (2018: 83.3%). 103-2 members in Austria, Germany and Switzerland SDG 4 access to educational opportunities ranging PORR offers a comprehensive programme for GRI from communication basics and intercultural individual professional development, ranging 404-2 training via aspects of occupational health and from internal training through to financing and safety through to legal issues such as employsupport in external education and training. In ing foreign workers. Digital media such as the year under review, 2019, PORR promoted webinars, e-learning etc. is increasingly being further education and training programmes on used. In the course of trade-related fairs or via personal development as well as for increasing the media, the appeal of the construction professional skills. Across the Group, trainings industry is highlighted to children still attending in English were offered and held on the issues school. Since 2019, the PORR Campus has of “Leadership” and “Emotional Competence for provided a broad training programme for Site Managers” in order to meet the increasing apprentices learning skilled trades and educational demand at international level and vocations. facilitate a cross-departmental exchange of experience. From 2019 a follow-up seminar GRI A feedback sheet is issued after every training “Time Skills/Part 2” will be held to facilitate 103-3 session in order gauge the effectiveness of the better structuring of the average workday. educational measures by quality management Internal lecturers can perfect their teaching standards. In addition, the mandatory perfortechnique in the training session “Train The mance review serves as a basis for planning Trainer (TTT)”. further education and training programmes and for evaluating progress made. 52 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Social In parallel to the digital recording in ­­­porr_academy The increasingly international alignment of the of the performance review notes, an e-learning company meant that language courses became course on the “PORR Performance Review” has more important and enjoyed higher demand. been provided. Since 2019 the digital education Introduced in 2018, the “digIT Learning Map” range has included the online course “From continued in 2019. Training on digitalisation – Employee to Manager”, which aims to provide with the main topics iTWO, BIM, SAP MM, new managers with the relevant knowledge SharePoint and IMS – reflected the growing content and to explain different management digitalisation in the business environment and models and tools. Experiencing self-efficacy in the ever higher demand for training related to order to be more effective and constructive in the affected work processes. Many training one’s everyday work was achieved by female sessions were also offered in the different PORRians in the session “Empowerment for countries – e.g. in Slovakia iTWO, FIDIC Women in Construction/Part 2”. Intercultural (Fédération Internationale des Ingénieurs skills were also developed in the course of a Conseils or International Federation of Consultone-day workshop. ing Engineers), EMAS-Training (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme). Romania also held A “Conference for Site Managers” in building comprehensive courses on hard and soft skills. construction was held for the first time in the In Switzerland extra first aid training was year under review to promote the exchange of offered and in Poland attention was paid to knowledge and information. Cutting-edge personal skills with courses like “Dealing with developments were on the programme along Emotions and Handling Stress”. Here as well the with best-practice examples related to hot goal is to expand the range of training across topics, which formed part of a diverse mix of the Group on the basis of actual needs. lectures, in-depth workshops and introductions by the different company areas. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 53 Social In the year under review, PORR continued and For students, the offers at “Young Talents Day”, expanded its recruiting and HR marketing an internship fair at Vienna University of Techmeasures. Activities in the reporting period nology (TU), were expanded. In the course of the were expanded to include the “Studo” project, “TU Talent Internship”, selected students publishing adverts in the “Studo Uni App” completed internships in different areas of including the company profile. “Digital onboardPORR during their holidays. The goal of the ing”, i.e. the standardised e-learning tool for all programme is for interested companies to make employees joining the company in Austria, was contact with the top talents studying construcused by more than 250 people in 2019. Across tion engineering at Vienna’s TU. the Group, over 130 HR events were held with a focus on recruiting. In Austria virtual reality At the “Long Night of Recruiting”, companies glasses were used for the first time, giving were able to get to know potential candidates potential employees a virtual tour of the in a series of twelve-minute interviews, company via a 360° video. In addition, tours candidates with an interest in starting their of the construction sites are planned. career at one of the many different PORR departments. All of the measures targeted at pupils and students continued in the year under review In the course of its Diversity Initiative, PORR is including the events “PORR@HAK”, “Business continuing its cooperation with the organisation School Games/MINT Games”, “HTL Recruiting “MTOP – More Than One Perspective”. In Days” and “Work Experience Days”. In addition, addition, PORR continues to help selected in 2019 students at the Camillo Sitte Higher refugees enter the world of work as part of a job Technical Institute had the chance to do work market service programme. In the period under experience from September to November as review, the company also started to develop its part of their course in building construction/ new employer branding strategy which will be renovation. constantly developed and implemented. Its goal is to increase the attractiveness of the company and thereby counter the lack of skilled labour. Another step involved a new employer branding video aligned towards special target groups. The video showcases different jobs at PORR and will go live officially in 2020. 54 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Social Upholding human rights and employment A commitment to protect human rights is indispensable for us. PORR ensures adherence across the entire supply chain and is committed to fair pay for every worker. GRI Management approach Annual checks to assess validity are made for GRI 103-1 103-3 The complexity of construction work demands the two Codes of Conduct, procurement-related a high number of subcontractor levels and a documentation such as the basic datasheet for supply chain with countless partial processes. suppliers, the sustainability criteria for This enhances the danger of a lack of trans­ procurement, the choice and evaluation of parency as well as wage and social dumping. suppliers, as well as the spot checks of business Regulatory compliance is crucial, especially in premises by the Compliance department to relation to labour migration, which is particularly guarantee that measures are implemented. prevalent in the Arabic region for example. Any Furthermore, the HR department works with breaches related to employee affairs may not other employment-related areas to verify the only lead to criminal prosecution, but may also actual status quo using the key performance have a negative impact on the award of tenders, indicators – such as fluctuation or training on recruiting, and on the company’s image. figures for example. Where necessary and They lead to delays and problems in realising subject to the approval of the Executive Board, construction projects and contracts as well as an update of the measures implemented is affecting the quality of the work and subsereleased. Any breaches in the supply chain are quently damaging society and the business reported and evaluated in the supplier managelocation. ment system. GRI PORR’s top priority is to retain skilled experts Employment 103-2 in the company long-term. This is why PORR Although PORR fundamentally relies on staff SDG 4, 8, 10 focuses on further education and training and a employed by the company, it also works with better work-life balance. Throughout the entire selected local manpower leasing firms on larger supply chain, the company promotes fair work project volumes, for follow-up orders or to cover practices and the protection of human rights. short-term labour peaks. Following a selection PORR is committed to the principles of the process, framework agreements were concludUN Global Compact and the Sustainable ed with the providers that explicitly refer to Development Goals. The Group-wide Code of upholding local laws on a variety of issues such Conduct for staff and the one for business as pay, collective agreements, working hours partners help to achieve this goal, along with etc. The employment figures for waged workers the guidelines for avoiding illegal employment reflect weather-related fluctuations in the and social dumping. Furthermore, the basic different countries that may be more or less datasheet for suppliers addresses the issues of pronounced but are steadily declining. The child workers and forced labour. The personnel corresponding data is gathered from the payroll documentation system ISHAP has been systems via standard analysis. introduced to facilitate better checks on external staff and is being successively rolled In the course of compliance checks, 58 PORR GRI out. Contact points for human rights issues sites were inspected for adherence to human 408-1 409-1 include local bodies such as the Norwegian rights such as the risk of child workers or forced 412-1 Work Environment Board or contact persons labour. No breaches were found. from the HR or Occupational Health and Safety departments, the European Works Council, the advisory Centre for Mental Health and Conflict Resoultion and the CSR Unit. In addition, any human rights violations can be reported directly to the Compliance Officer. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 55 Social GRI Part-time contracts allow PORR to accommoFocus on the Gulf region 401-2 date the varying needs of its staff. In the In both Qatar and the UAE, PORR ensures that reporting period almost 960 people, more than all legal and internal guidelines and directives 5% of the workforce, were working under are upheld at the highest level. Even though individual employment contracts. The staff labour law in the UAE diverges slightly from that benefits are available in the same degree to in Qatar, the same approaches and minimum every member of staff – no differentiation is standards apply in principle to those in Qatar. In made based on full-time or part-time employthe UAE, PORR exclusively works with personnel ment. from manpower leasing agencies. They are selected in line with stringent criteria in order GRI Remuneration and benefit plans to guarantee the high PORR standards. 102-41 202-1 Remuneration at PORR is based on the principle 405-2 of equal opportunities – there is no difference in In Qatar worker rights are governed by legislapay based on gender. In most countries, salaries tion such as the Dhaka Principles, whereby the SDG 5, 10 are governed by collective bargaining agreePORR Qatar guidelines also address the respecments and exceed the minimum wage requiretive issues. All workers have guaranteed freements. As of 31 December 2019, 16,532 staff dom of movement and receive an original copy members or 87.2% of the workforce were paid of their work contract. They are informed about under collective or wage agreements. Payment all legal occupational health and safety aspects. exceeding the collective agreement was made In addition, they are in possession of their based on qualifications. In the year under review passport and other personal documents and there were no pay increases for the highest there is a complaints reporting system. As a earners. rule, their basic pay exceeds the minimum wage and they are also provided with aspects such as GRI PORR does not offer its staff any perforaccommodation, transport, food and sports 201-3 mance-based benefit plans. There are only facilities free of charge. Different ethnic minimal exceptions, for which provisions are requirements are catered to in the choice of formed in the balance sheet. Defined benefit food and there is freedom to practice any pension plans are offered in Germany, Austria religion. The Workers’ Welfare Forum aims to and Switzerland. identify possible problems early on and take proactive steps to solve them. For example, GRI With the guidelines to avoid illegal employment there are heat-sensitive warning systems on 414-2 and social dumping, the mandatory Code of every construction site that are activated as SDG 5 Conduct for business partners, the ISHAP soon as the temperature or humidity reach personnel documentation system and framework maximum levels. Outdoor work then ceases agreements with manpower leasing companies, immediately. the company strives to ensure that no wage or social dumping occurs with contract workers or temps and that minimum wages are upheld. 56 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Social Diversity and equal opportunities We are committed to diversity at every place of business. After all, diversity is considered a success factor at PORR. Promoting equal opportunities allows us to create an attractive working environment. “We@PORR” PORR is committed to equal opportunities and fulfils all country-specific legal requirements. For example, there are strict anti-disGRI Management approach crimination guidelines in place in the UAE and 103-1 The job market is characterised by an increasQatar. In addition to this, PORR uses communiing shortage of skilled labour and constant cation campaigns, role models, lectures, demand for new performance incentives. As networking events, courses for women and a future-focused employer, PORR draws on mentoring programmes to lay the foundations flexible working models and measures that for the requisite awareness raising. Against this allow a better work-life balance. This should backdrop, the percentage of women working in strengthen the motivation, professional perforthe company increased to 15% in the period mance, innovation potential and social skills of under review. The change in the percentage staff members. What’s more, the focus on of women training to become future managers diversity should contribute to enhancing the was also positive, rising from 8% to 19% in company’s success. the reporting period and providing a basis for a diverse management structure. The female-­ GRI The diversity initiative “We@PORR” deals centred network “Women@PORR” made an 103-2 with planning and implementing measures especially important contribution to better SDG 5, 10 related to diversity and equal opportunities. networking and the intensive exchange of The topic of diversity is anchored in the CSR experience among female colleagues. On top Unit. Topic-based project teams, which have of this, the new campaign “proud@PORR” was been set up in Austria and on other markets, are prepared in 2019, in which attractive profesin regular contact with employees from sions and career opportunities for women are different areas and hierarchical levels in order presented. The in-company networking events to constantly evaluate and expand the projects. “Diversity Table” promote mutual respect and The set of measures developed is assessed by focus on diversity-specific core dimensions. the Diversity Board and amended where necessary before being presented for approval In its quest to improve the work-life balance, to the highest decision-making body, the the “We@PORR” measures include Home Office Diversity Council, on which members of the options, which have been available so far in Group Executive Board sit. The HR department, Norway, Poland and Austria, and sabbaticals, the Works Council and the advisory Centre for which are offered to employees in Austria and Mental Health and Conflict Resolution are Germany. The “PORR Baby Box” has already available for any questions related to equal been introduced throughout the entire PORR opportunities. Group. Family and care services such as the “Kids Day”, the “Adventure Camp”, the “Parent-­ GRI The set of measures is evaluated in the Child Office” for childcare emergencies 103-3 form of needs assessments via focus groups and “PORR Nursing Care Leave” and “PORR or working groups, test phases, surveys, Care+ Insurance” are additional attractive monitoring participation levels or evaluating options. In general, the rollout to international feedback forms by the Diversity Project Team, markets is done gradually based on needs and the Diversity Board and the Diversity Council is complemented on a case-by-case basis and amended where necessary. with country-specific initiatives. PORR Sustainability Report 2019 57 APPENDIX 60 Risk and impact analysis 64 GRI content index 71 Key performance indicators 89 Responsibility statement 90 Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report 92 Acknowledgements Appendix Risk and impact analysis GRI 102-15 ASDIA1 topics Material topics Risks Impacts on PORR Respecting Upholding Human rights violations • Consequences under criminal law human rights human rights in business activities • Negative impacts on tendering process • Recruitment problems • Damage to image Employee and Social standards Violations relating to • Prosecutions, e.g. for human rights violations social affairs in the supply chain human rights, employee • Increased project costs due to construction delays and social affairs • Pressure at work increases error frequency • Damage to image • Increased external controls • Negative impacts on tendering process Health and Impact on physical/ • Prosecutions (e.g. corporate liability, administrative sanctions) safety mental health in • Decreased competitiveness (e.g. tender process, recruiting) business activities • Increased project costs • Increased external controls Further education Shortage of skilled labour • Problems in realising contracts and training in business activities • Lack of quality • Pressure at work increases error frequency • Knowhow loss through technological stagnation • Sustainability criteria: prequalification Diversity and Intercultural problems in • Lack of teamwork makes it harder to realise projects equal opportunities business activities • Communication problems and potential for conflict • Endangering the international standing • Decreased innovation potential by failing to utilise diversity Wellbeing of local Impact on physical/ • Increased project costs through construction delays residents mental health • Increased external controls Contributing to • Knowledge of conditions improves contract realisation the local economy • Simplified communication with business partners Combating Ethics and Unfair competition and • Damage to image corruption compliance corruption in business • Legal consequences and bribery activities and supply chain • Distortion effects/exclusion from tender processes • Negative impact on share price • Limited financing options 1 Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act 60 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix Impacts on Concepts/Due-diligence Contribution non-financial topics processes/measures to SDGs • Violation of fundamental rights (child labour, forced labour etc.) p. 15 8 • Loss of democracy and freedom p. 18 et seq. 16 • Physical and mental health problems p. 26 et seq. • Social tension p. 29 • Damage to the national economy p. 55 et seq. • Violation of fundamental rights (child labour, forced labour, fair pay etc.) p. 15 3 • Increase in accidents at work and early retirement p. 26 et seq. 8 • Increased mental stress due to lack of competencies p. 29 • Health impacts (noise, dust, vibrations) • Increased cost to national economy p. 15 3 • Increase in accidents at work p. 29 • Early retirement resulting from physical/mental stress p. 48 et seqq. • Lack of opportunities for promotion p. 15 4 • Loss of competencies and education p. 28 • Increased financial output p. 29 • Increased mental stress due to lack of competencies p. 52 et seqq. • Lower transferability to the labour market • Hampers innovation and advances • Disadvantage for the location • Decreased ability to contribute to national economy • Conflicts/social tension arising from different values p. 15 5 • Discrimination against minorities p. 29 • Encouraging the formation of slums and ghettos p. 57 • Damage to infrastructure (e.g. power lines) p. 48 3 • Damage to neighbours’ health through particulate matter, noise and vibrations • Impact on transport safety through entering and exiting construction sites • Impact on road users caused by construction vehicles turning • Impairing local purchasing power p. 15 8 • Decrease in economic value generated p. 24 et seq. 10 • Endangering local jobs through migration p. 26 et seq. • Damaging the business location p. 15 16 • Subverting the rule of law p. 26 et seq. • Loss of tax revenue p. 28 et seq. • Wasting of public funds • Increase in public legal fees PORR Sustainability Report 2019 61 Appendix ASDIA1 topics Material topics Risks Impacts on PORR Environmental Energy and No blanket environmental • Loss of contracts affairs emissions standards in the value • Prosecutions (e.g. due to environmental damage, compliance breaches) chain in business • Long permit procedures caused by overregulation activities • Cost increases in fuel and energy due to higher environmental impact • Production interruptions/higher costs through temporary bans/ Waste protected areas management • Increase in costs caused by not exploiting material properties • Higher disposal costs for non-recyclable material Material consumption and recycling Environmental Breaches related to • Prosecutions e.g. due to environmental damage standards in the ­environmental matters • Increased project costs due to construction delays supply chain • Damage to image • Increased external controls • Negative impacts on tender process • Cost increases in fuel and energy due to higher environmental impact • Higher costs through temporary bans/protected areas • Cost increases caused by remediation of contaminated soil Biodiversity Environmental damage • Prosecution and soils in business activities • Expensive/time-consuming procedures for site remediation • Damage to image • Construction delays due to increased project costs Water No blanket environmental • Loss of contracts standards in the value • Prosecutions (e.g. due to environmental damage, compliance breaches) chain in business • Long permit procedures caused by overregulation Sustainable activities • Cost increases in fuel and energy due to higher environmental impact buildings and • Production interruptions/higher costs through temporary bans/ constructions protected areas • Increase in costs caused by not exploiting material properties • Higher disposal costs for non-recyclable material Science and Lack of innovation • Decreased opportunities in the tender process technology ­potential in business • Costs incurred by purchasing knowhow lead to increased dependency activities • Increased investment costs • Not fit for the future due to not exploiting technological advances 1 Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act 62 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix Impacts on Concepts/Due-diligence Contribution non-financial topics processes/measures to SDGs • Environmental damage through emissions (CO2 , exhaust fumes, particulate emissions) p. 15 7 • Light emissions p. 34 et seqq. 13 • High energy consumption in production or through inefficient logistics • Increased climate change • Higher waste volumes p. 15 15 p. 38 et seq. • Damaging the ecosystem by exhausting resources p. 15 15 • Impacting the ecosystem through environmentally unsound materials p. 40 et seq. • Preventing circular economies • Wasting or squandering resources p. 15 13 • Use of environmentally damaging materials and/or increased waste generated p. 26 et seq. 15 • Damage to the environment caused by emissions (CO2 , exhaust fumes, particulate emissions) • Light emissions • Higher energy consumption, e.g. cement production, long transport routes • Longer heatwaves caused by building up natural areas • Environmental impact through construction activity • Increased climate change • Loss of habitats and cultural treasures • Increased risk of extreme weather events/natural hazards • Preventing circular economies • Damage to habitats, protected areas, species diversity p. 15 3 • Decrease in usable arable land p. 42 6 • Decrease in primary production 13 • Loss of climate regulation through factors such as urban hotspots • Impact on ecosystem performance • Excessive use of fresh water p. 15 6 • Damage to bodies of water p. 43 15 • Building up natural areas prevents natural heat regulation and leads to increased heatwaves p. 15 3 • Impact on health caused by noise, dust and vibrations p. 37 7 • Environmental impact through construction activity 11 • Damage to habitats and cultural treasures 12 • Increased risk of extreme weather events/natural hazards e.g. soil erosion 13 • Costs to the national economy incurred by non-compliance to standards • Outdated processes cause resource inefficiency, environmental damage and impacts on health p. 15 8 • Lowering living standards p. 41 9 • Endangering the business location PORR Sustainability Report 2019 63 Appendix GRI content index GRI 102-55 Page reference: Sustainability Report 2019 AR: Annual Report 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 9 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 9, 24 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 102-4 Location of operations 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9, AR 76 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9, 10, 71 102-9 Supply chain 25, 26 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and AR 63 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 11 34 7 37 7, 11, 13 40 102-12 External initiatives 16 102-13 Membership of associations and 16 advocacy organizations STRATEGY 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, AR 6 et seq. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 11, 12 17 16 24, 60 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 12, 18 norms of behavior 27 8 29 8, 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 27 8 about ethics 28 16 29 8 GOVERNANCE 2016 102-18 Governance structure 13 102-19 Delegating authority 13 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 13 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 13 16 environmental, and social topics 16, 27 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body AR 77 et seqq. and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 77 et seqq. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AR 77 et seqq. governance body 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 11 processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 13, 17 and social topics 64 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 13 sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 86 et seqq. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 86 et seqq. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 71 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 56 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 17 16 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 2, AR 195 statements et seqq. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 2, 17 102-47 List of material topics 17 102-48 Restatements of information 17 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 2 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 64 102-56 External assurance 2, 90 GRI 200: ECONOMY ECONOMIC TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 24 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated 9, 10, and distributed 24 9 72, 73, AR 126 et seqq. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 11 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 56 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received 41 Research subsidies from government PORR Sustainability Report 2019 65 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG MARKET PRESENCE 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 56 5, 10 gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 11 8 from the local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 24 9 services supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 24 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 PROCUREMENT 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 27 8 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 26 9 the supply chain and actions taken SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 26 chain and actions taken 56 5 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related 28 to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 27 8 anti-corruption policies and procedures 28 16 73 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 28 and actions taken ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 28 anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 27 and regulations PUBLIC POLICY 2016 415-1 Political contributions No political contributions CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding No substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 66 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 28 in the social and economic area GRI 300: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 12, 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 MATERIALS 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 40, 74 301-2 Recycled input materials used 40 12, 15 41 9 74 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 7, 9, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 ENERGY 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 34, 35 7, 9, 13 74 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 75 302-3 Energy intensity 75 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35, 36 7, 9, 13 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements 35 7, 9, 13 of products and services 37 7, 11, 13 EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 35, 77 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 35, 77 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 35, 78 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 78 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 35, 36 7, 9, 13 37 7, 13 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 36 substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 36, 78 and other significant air emissions MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 43 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 6, 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 67 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG WATER 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 43 303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts 43 6 303-3 Water withdrawal 43, 76 303-4 Water discharge 43 6 76 303-5 Water consumption 43 6, 15 77 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 42 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 BIODIVERSITY 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 42 15 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, 42 15 and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 42 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation 42 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 38 12 79 306-3 Significant spills 39 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 80 GRI 400: SOCIAL SOCIAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 55 103-2 The management approach and its components 55 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 81 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 56 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 83 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 48 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48 3 68 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety 48 3 management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 49 3 and incident investigation 50 403-3 Occupational health services 49 3 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 49, 51 3 communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health 50 3 and safety 51 403-6 Promotion of worker health 48, 51 3 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 49, 50 3 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health 48 3 and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 50, 83 403-10 Work-related ill health 84 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 37 3 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 37 3 the health and safety impacts of products and services MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 52 4 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year 52 4 per employee 85 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 52 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 52 4 performance and career development reviews 86 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 57 103-2 The management approach and its components 57 5, 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 87 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 56 5 of women to men NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents of discrimination corrective actions taken PORR Sustainability Report 2019 69 Appendix GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 55 103-2 The management approach and its components 55 4, 8, 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the No risk identified right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 55 risk for incidents of child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 55 incidents of forced or compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 55 rights reviews or impact assessments 70 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix Key performance indicators GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI INFORMATION ON STAFF 102-8 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Total staff 18,962 3,104 170 147 2,192 689 291 167 1,221 10,887 94 Total male staff 16,104 2,547 150 118 1,760 558 243 131 1,029 9,477 91 Permanent male staff 14,947 2,327 150 104 1,016 558 201 128 895 9,477 91 Temporary male staff 1,157 220 0 14 744 0 42 3 134 0 0 Full-time male staff 15,879 2,486 150 117 1,751 556 236 131 1,023 9,338 91 Part-time male staff 225 61 0 1 9 2 7 0 6 139 0 Total female staff 2,858 557 20 29 432 131 48 36 192 1,410 3 Permanent female staff 2,642 495 20 26 328 131 45 36 148 1,410 3 Temporary female staff 216 62 0 3 104 0 3 0 44 0 0 Full-time female staff 2,124 438 20 27 417 127 39 36 178 839 3 Part-time female staff 734 119 0 2 15 4 9 0 14 571 0 Staffing levels: 31 December 2019 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total staff 17,747 2,876 815 108 2,036 319 239 86 852 10,416 Total male staff 15,257 2,364 748 79 1,638 243 200 63 701 9,221 Permanent male staff 14,271 2,253 748 41 862 243 177 63 663 9,221 Temporary male staff 986 111 0 38 776 0 23 0 38 0 Full-time male staff 15,112 2,332 748 79 1,629 241 194 63 698 9,128 Part-time male staff 145 32 0 0 9 2 6 0 3 93 Total female staff 2,490 512 67 29 398 76 39 23 151 1,195 Permanent female staff 2,312 473 67 19 284 76 35 23 140 1,195 Temporary female staff 178 39 0 10 114 0 4 0 11 0 Full-time female staff 1,932 403 67 26 385 75 36 23 140 777 Part-time female staff 558 109 0 3 13 1 3 0 11 418 Staffing levels: 31 December 2018 GRI ANNUAL TOTAL COMPENSATION RATIO 1 102-38 2019 DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Annual total compensation ratio for staff in employment for the full year 4.9 5.0 3.5 11.4 23.4 4.4 9.9 8.1 25.8 7.9 1 Annual total compensation ratio of the highest paid person to the median annual total compensation for staff in employment for the full year Higher median values in AT and RO: Group Executive Board in Vienna, management deployed abroad 2018 DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Annual total compensation ratio for staff in employment for the full year 3.8 8.3 3.5 11.4 15.1 2.9 9.9 10.4 25.5 1 Annual total compensation ratio of the highest paid person to the median annual total compensation for staff in employment for the full year Higher median values in AT and RO: Group Executive Board in Vienna, management deployed abroad PORR Sustainability Report 2019 71 Appendix ECONOMIC GRI PORR GROUP ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 (EURm) 2019 2018 Change Production output 5,570 5,593 -0.4% Order backlog 7,065 7,100 -0.5% Order intake 5,536 6,326 -12.5% EBITDA 222.3 219.5 1.3% EBIT 54.7 92.3 -40.7% EBT 37.4 88.1 -57.6% Profit 27.8 66.2 -58.0% Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) 599 618 -3.1% Equity ratio 16.4% 19.9% -3.5PP Net debt 346 150 >100.0% Average staff 19,828 19,014 4.3% Figures include all PORR markets STAFF COSTS BY COUNTRY (TEUR) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Average staff 19,190 3,038 525 375 2,454 531 292 239 1,152 10,584 Staff costs 1,215,728 230,031 17,490 26,259 79,848 10,980 35,087 4,884 35,765 775,384 Average staff costs per staff member 63 76 33 70 33 21 120 20 31 73 Basis for calculation: all companies including joint ventures regardless of the equity interest held UAE: Standardisation process for reporting underway 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Average staff 18,393 2,993 1,189 404 2,279 376 301 133 840 9,878 Staff costs 1,154,451 220,035 54,910 27,995 71,419 8,531 32,877 2,704 26,097 709,883 Average staff costs per staff member 63 74 46 69 31 23 109 20 31 72 EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING BY COUNTRY (TEUR) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Average staff 19,190 3,038 525 375 2,454 531 292 239 1,152 10,584 Education and training costs 5,223 1,026 5 84 520 135 197 59 156 3,041 Average education and training costs per staff member 0.27 0.34 0.01 0.22 0.21 0.25 0.67 0.25 0.14 0.29 Basis for calculation: all companies including joint ventures regardless of the equity interest held UAE: Standardisation process for reporting underway 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Average staff 18,393 2,993 1,189 404 2,279 376 301 133 840 9,878 Education and training costs 4,401 846 83 285 360 66 153 35 151 2,422 Average education and training costs per staff member 0.24 0.28 0.07 0.71 0.16 0.18 0.51 0.26 0.18 0.25 72 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 201-1 (EURm) 2019 2018 Revenue 4,880.4 4,959.1 Earnings from companies accounted for under the equity method 87.4 86.6 Other operating income 182.8 189.1 Income from financial investments and other current financial assets 15.4 18.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -167.6 -127.1 Cost of materials -3,286.7 -3,462.6 Other costs to generate economic value -398.5 -373.9 Economic value generated 1,313.2 1,289.7 The direct economic value generated relates to all PORR markets DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (EURm) 2019 2018 Staff costs 1,243.2 1,178.8 Payments to government entities 9.6 21.9 Shareholders/holders of hybrid capital and profit-participation rights 0.0 43.0 External capital providers 32.7 22.7 Companies (retained earnings) 27.7 23.3 Economic value generated 1,313.2 1,289.7 GRI COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ABOUT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 205-2 2019 2018 Internal communication on anti-corruption guideline 17,829 15,099 Members of the governance body 1 12 12 Upper management employees 20 18 Middle and lower management employees 1,497 499 Non-management employees 16,300 14,570 Members of the governance body (%) 100.0 48.0 Upper management employees (%) 87.0 100.0 Middle and lower management employees (%) 100.0 32.1 Non-management employees (%) 93.4 90.1 Anti-corruption training 935 479 Members of the governance body 0 12 Upper management employees 20 18 Middle and lower management employees 884 407 Non-management employees 31 42 Members of the governance body (%) 0 48.0 Upper management employees (%) 87.0 100.0 Middle and lower management employees (%) 59.1 26.2 Non-management employees (%) 0.2 0.3 1 The entire Executive Board (with the participation of certain members of the governance body) acknowledged the anti-corruption guideline Upper management level: E1-E2 (Executive Board, managing directors) Middle and lower management levels: E3-E5 (department, unit, group and team managers) PORR Sustainability Report 2019 73 Appendix ENVIRONMENT GRI MATERIALS USED 301-1 (t) 2019 Total PL CZ AT Materials used 1,285,818.14 420,479.02 220,186.00 645,153.12 Non-renewable materials used 1,188,563.33 399,565.93 202,922.00 586,075.40 Renewable materials used 97,254.81 20,913.09 17,264.00 59,077.72 Data relate to asphalt mix plants 2018 Total PL CZ AT Materials used 1,400,204 606,200 236,682 557,322 Non-renewable materials used 1,400,204 606,200 236,682 557,322 Renewable materials used 0 0 0 0 Data relate to asphalt mix plants GRI RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS USED 301-2 2019 Total PL CZ AT Amount of recycled material used (t) 97,254.81 20,913.09 17,264.00 59,077.72 Percentage of recycled material (%) 7.6 5.0 7.8 9.2 Data relate to asphalt mix plants 2018 Total PL CZ AT Amount of recycled material used (t) 131,189 52,291 26,749 52,149 Percentage of recycled material (%) 9.3 8.6 11.3 9.4 Data relate to asphalt mix plants GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION 302-1 (MWh) 2019 Total DE QA 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Energy consumption within the organisation 598,179.06 72,891.35 839.46 7,751.38 71,143.54 4,969.00 6,689.02 583.60 41,294.81 380,972.83 11,044.07 Energy for transport – vehicle fleet 352,881.25 51,380.78 839.46 1,800.49 22,825.04 4,600.73 1,838.05 334.56 8,806.87 249,411.20 11,044.07 Stationary energy – non-renewable 166,065.15 9,897.16 0.00 5,669.40 31,938.36 0.00 650.97 26.57 30,405.31 87,477.38 0.00 Stationary energy – renewable 189.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 189.50 0.00 Indirect energy consumption 78,886.05 11,613.41 0.00 281.49 16,380.14 368.27 4,200.00 222.47 2,082.63 43,737.64 0.00 Power grid mix 72,155.93 10,244.09 0.00 281.49 15,554.94 213.26 3,200.00 222.47 2,082.63 40,357.05 0.00 District heating 6,730.12 1,369.32 0.00 0.00 825.20 155.01 1,000.00 0.00 0.00 3,380.59 0.00 Self-generated energy 157.11 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 157.11 0.00 1 QA: Decrease in energy consumption: final phase of completion 74 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy consumption within the organisation 644,180 48,366 99,526 12,165 98,934 16,751 7,318 1,697 49,629 309,794 Energy for transport – vehicle fleet 292,191 30,535 6,385 2,844 31,755 3,666 1,743 412 23,504 191,346 Stationary energy – non-renewable 285,117 10,580 93,141 6,008 47,004 10,709 975 841 25,184 90,674 Stationary energy – renewable 94 0 0 0 0 94 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy consumption 66,654 7,250 0 3,312 20,175 2,283 4,600 444 941 27,649 Power grid mix 61,714 6,870 0 3,312 20,000 2,283 4,600 444 941 23,264 District heating 4,940 380 0 0 175 0 0 0 0 4,385 Self-generated energy 125 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 125 Increase in energy consumption: corporate acquisition in CZ and expansion of entities included in the report GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION 302-2 (MWh) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK AT UAE Energy consumption outside of the organisation 13,339.02 4,130.10 1,064.96 2,374.59 40.59 355.41 130.61 0.96 5,143.60 98.20 CZ: Standardisation process for reporting underway 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK AT Energy consumption outside of the organisation 10,725 3,323 369 2,313 41 173 101 5 4,402 CZ: Standardisation process for reporting underway GRI ENERGY INTENSITY 302-3 2019 2018 Change Total energy consumption within the PORR Group (MWh) 598,179.06 644,180 -7.1% Production output (TEUR) 1 5,518,038.00 5,489,982 0.5% Energy consumption/production output (MWh/TEUR) 0.108 0.117 -7.6% 1 Production output relates to the entities reported on in the Sustainability Report PORR Sustainability Report 2019 75 Appendix GRI WATER WITHDRAWAL 303-3 (Ml) 2019 Total DE NO 1 PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water withdrawal 2,257.56 1,051.32 1,040.40 58.54 6.65 7.00 4.50 17.68 71.47 Surface water – withdrawal 1,050.98 40.60 989.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.50 0.00 16.58 Surface water – fresh water 60.75 39.67 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.50 0.00 16.58 Surface water other water 990.23 0.93 989.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Groundwater – withdrawal 855.14 820.77 0.00 8.56 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.29 20.52 Groundwater – fresh water 814.54 788.73 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.29 20.52 Groundwater – other water 40.60 32.04 0.00 8.56 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Produced water – withdrawal 91.52 91.52 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Produced water – other water 91.52 91.52 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water from third parties – withdrawal 259.92 98.43 51.10 49.98 6.65 7.00 0.00 12.39 34.37 Water from third parties – fresh water 208.86 98.43 0.04 49.98 6.65 7.00 0.00 12.39 34.37 Water from third parties – other water 51.06 0.00 51.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total water withdrawal from areas with water stress 0.43 0.11 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.00 0.00 1 NO: The high values are mainly caused by a large bridge construction project QA and UAE: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water withdrawal 857.84 561.31 130.05 32.69 5.80 7.00 10.81 13.22 96.96 Surface water – withdrawal 154.58 0.94 123.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 29.97 Surface water – fresh water 153.64 0.00 123.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 29.97 Surface water – other water 0.94 0.94 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Groundwater – withdrawal 464.28 431.80 0.00 4.34 0.00 0.00 10.00 0.00 18.14 Groundwater – fresh water 464.28 431.80 0.00 4.34 0.00 0.00 10.00 0.00 18.14 Produced water – withdrawal 116.96 116.96 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Produced water – other water 116.96 116.96 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water from third parties – withdrawal 122.02 11.62 6.38 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 48.84 Water from third parties – fresh water 115.69 11.62 0.05 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 48.84 Water from third parties – other water 6.34 0.00 6.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total water withdrawal from areas with water stress 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co, KG QA: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible GRI WATER DISCHARGE 303-4 (Ml) 2019 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water discharge 1,689.93 1,499.76 0.04 49.98 6.65 7.00 4.50 17.68 104.32 Discharged into surface water 556.55 556.55 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into surface water – fresh water 555.88 555.88 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into surface water – other water 0.67 0.67 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into groundwater 986.88 911.64 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.29 69.95 Discharged into groundwater – fresh water 986.37 911.13 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.29 69.95 Discharged into groundwater – other water 0.51 0.51 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recirculated as water from third parties 146.50 31.57 0.04 49.98 6.65 7.00 4.50 12.39 34.37 Recirculated as water from third parties – fresh water 125.31 10.38 0.04 49.98 6.65 7.00 4.50 12.39 34.37 Recirculated as water from third parties – other water 21.19 21.19 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: The high value is caused by pumping out and recirculating groundwater generated in the course of construction activities QA and UAE: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible 76 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water discharge 498.70 386.08 0.35 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Discharged into surface water 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into surface water – other water 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into groundwater 385.00 385.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into groundwater – fresh water 385.00 385.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recirculated as water from third parties 113.45 1.08 0.10 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Recirculated as water from third parties – fresh water 112.33 0.07 0.00 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Recirculated as water from third parties – other water 1.11 1.01 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co, KG QA: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible GRI WATER CONSUMPTION 303-5 (Ml) 2019 Total DE NO 1 PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water consumption 568.06 -448.33 1,040.36 8.56 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.00 -32.85 Total water consumption from areas with water stress 0.43 0.11 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.00 0.00 1 NO: The high values are mainly caused by a large bridge construction project QA and UAE: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible Negative values are accounted for by rainwater discharge 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ 2 AT Total water consumption 401.10 175.23 129.70 32.69 5.80 7.00 10.81 0.00 39.88 Total water consumption from areas with water stress 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co, KG 2 CZ: Standardisation process for reporting underway QA: Water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible GRI DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 305-1 (t) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Energy-direct GHG emissions 123,048.58 14,990.43 206.55 1,835.66 13,266.21 1,130.58 614.40 88.75 8,475.42 79,726.70 2,713.88 Data relate to all direct energy consumption such as diesel, petrol, heating oil, natural gas, liquid gas and wood Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy-direct GHG emissions 136,738 9,969 24,460 2,175 19,022 3,322 672 308 10,826 65,984 Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key GRI INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) 305-2 (t) 2019 Total DE QA 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Energy-indirect GHG emissions 24,566.62 4,861.14 0.00 2.25 11,406.95 98.25 281.88 35.26 1,109.00 6,771.89 0.00 1 QA: Final completion phase Data relate to types of energy where the primary energy consumption was prior to PORR usage, e.g. power and district heating Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy-indirect GHG emissions 24,124 3,181 68 29 14,709 779 114 75 493 4,676 Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key PORR Sustainability Report 2019 77 Appendix GRI OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) 305-3 (t) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK AT UAE Other indirect GHG emissions 2,640.07 921.61 129.64 253.74 9.85 0.05 28.51 0.23 1,276.84 19,60 CZ: Standardisation process for reporting underway Data relates to flights, rail travel and car rentals Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ 1 AT Other indirect GHG emissions 2,034 582 13 306 11 38 22 1 0 1,061 1 CZ: Standardisation process for reporting underway Data relates to flights, rail travel and car rentals Basis for calculation: legal, country-specific calculation key GRI GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY 305-4 2019 2018 Change Total GHG emissions (t CO2 ) 150,255.27 162,896 -7.8% Production output (TEUR) 1 5,518,038.00 5,489,982 0.5% GHG emissions/production output (t CO2 /TEUR) 0.027 0.030 -10.0% 1 Production output relates to the entities reported on in the Sustainability Report GRI AIR EMISSIONS 305-7 (kg/kW) 2019 Total/weighted DE CZ AT Carbon monoxide (CO) 1.87 2.18 2.14 1.80 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.12 0.05 0.02 0.14 Nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 1.82 1.97 1.48 1.83 Particulate matter (PM) 0.13 0.09 0.09 0.14 Standardisation process for reporting in other countries underway 2018 Total/weighted DE CZ AT Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.60 2.82 2.04 2.57 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.13 0.04 0.05 0.16 Nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 2.18 2.21 1.55 2.20 Particulate matter (PM) 0.12 0.13 0.07 0.12 CHANGE IN AIR EMISSIONS (kg/kW) 2019 2018 Change Carbon monoxide (CO) 1.87 2.60 -28.2% Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.12 0.13 -7.3% Nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 1.82 2.18 -16.4% Particulate matter (PM) 0.13 0.12 5.1% 78 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI WASTE BY TYPE 306-2 (t) 2019 Total DE NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Total waste by waste type 9,895.56 1,303.83 659.37 354.23 609.80 14.00 64.32 258.88 6,165.72 465.41 Hazardous waste 743.29 74.03 159.60 9.55 0.80 0.00 1.87 440.32 57.12 Mineral oil 220.38 19.15 0.60 5.68 0.00 0.00 0.00 194.95 0.00 Workshop waste 229.47 18.61 159.00 3.13 0.00 0.00 0.00 48.73 0.00 Other hazardous waste 293.44 36.27 0.74 0.80 0.00 1.87 196.64 57.12 Non-hazardous waste 9,152.27 1,229.80 499.77 344.68 609.80 13.20 64.32 257.01 5,725.40 408.29 Household waste 1,959.82 229.32 55.12 135.37 259.00 7.00 54.00 140.52 899.39 180.10 Paper 664.42 455.75 1.99 7.00 3.50 0.00 0.46 195.72 Paper packaging 222.57 30.29 1.50 0.68 127.00 1.40 1.85 4.33 54.47 1.05 Plastic packaging 101.61 36.77 1.02 0.05 36.80 0.30 0.02 6.54 19.98 0.13 Glass 47.37 0.76 0.70 0.00 2.42 43.49 Metal 1,771.58 211.95 137.00 78.70 80.00 0.30 0.00 1,263.63 Wood or wood waste 724.50 70.09 274.14 9.96 100.00 0.00 5.00 51.84 194.30 19.17 Bulky waste 119.67 12.66 0.00 0.00 45.90 61.11 Other non-harzadous waste 3,540.73 182.21 29.00 119.92 0.00 3.45 5.00 2,993.31 207.84 Data relate to offices and production sites PL, RO, CH: Waste disposal partly based on properties QA: Project completion 2018 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total waste by waste type 26,839 1,945 7,916 744 165 1,087 222 43 217 14,500 Hazardous waste 857 88 131 55 10 0 50 0 1 522 Mineral oil 244 21 0 4 6 0 0 0 0 212 Workshop waste 294 67 5 50 4 0 0 0 0 168 Other hazardous waste 319 0 126 0 0 0 50 0 1 142 Non-hazardous waste 25,981 1,856 7,785 689 155 1,087 172 43 217 13,977 Household waste 5,992 470 3,857 95 511 30 102 926 Paper 595 434 5 0 3 0 152 Paper packaging 67 17 0 6 1 2 41 Plastic packaging 48 20 4 1 4 3 16 Glass 20 0 0 0 1 19 Metal 1,330 440 103 100 2 3 29 653 Wood or wood waste 4,914 170 3,787 472 90 100 2 49 244 Bulky waste 166 2 9 70 0 31 54 Other non-harzadous waste 12,849 304 141 155 378 0 0 11,872 Data relate to offices and production sites QA, PL, RO, CH: Waste disposal partly based on properties PORR Sustainability Report 2019 79 Appendix WASTE BY TYPE – DISPOSAL METHOD (t) Recovery (incl. 2019 Landfill Waste incineration Recycling recovered energy) Miscellaneous Total waste by waste type 555.74 5.00 1,087.12 51.84 8,195.86 Hazardous waste 1.87 0.00 159.60 0.00 581.82 Mineral oil 0.00 0.00 0.60 0.00 219.78 Workshop waste 0.00 0.00 159.00 0.00 70.47 Other hazardous waste 1.87 0.00 0.00 0.00 291.57 Non-hazardous waste 553.87 5.00 927.52 51.84 7,614.04 Household waste 399.52 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,560.30 Paper 0.00 0.00 12.95 0.00 651.47 Paper packaging 0.00 0.00 134.68 0.00 87.89 Plastic packaging 0.00 0.00 44.38 0.00 57.23 Glass 0.00 0.00 3.12 0.00 44.25 Metal 0.00 0.00 429.25 0.00 1,342.33 Wood or wood waste 100.00 5.00 274.14 51.84 293.52 Bulky waste 45.90 0.00 0.00 0.00 73.77 Other non-hazardous waste 8.45 0.00 29.00 0.00 3,503.28 For companies included in the report see GRI 306-2 on p. 79 No comparative data as this disposal method was reported for the first time in 2019 GRI TRANSPORT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE 306-4 (t) 2019 Total DE QA NO PL CH SK CZ AT UAE Hazardous waste transported 1 4,479.92 74.00 0.00 160.00 10.00 0.80 0.00 2.00 4,176.00 57.12 Hazardous waste imported 5,357.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5,357.00 0.00 Hazardous waste exported 1,699.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,699.00 0.00 Hazardous waste treated and transported 94,823.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 94,823.00 0.00 Hazardous waste shipped internationally (%) 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.7 0.0 1 Hazardous waste transported = miscellaneous waste transported (not exported, not imported, not treated and transported) RO: Standardisation process for reporting underway Total of all hazardous waste transported = transported hazardous + imported hazardous + exported hazardous + treated and transported hazardous waste 2018 Total DE QA NO PL CH SK CZ AT Hazardous waste transported 4,305 88 131 55 10 50 0 1 3,970 Hazardous waste imported 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous waste exported 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous waste treated and transported 61,248 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 61,248 Hazardous waste shipped internationally (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 RO: Standardisation process for reporting underway 80 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix SOCIAL GRI NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND COUNTRY 401-1 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Total new hires by age group 4,160 466 23 55 684 503 69 100 226 1,999 35 New hires aged below 30 1,572 195 1 5 222 105 22 17 69 928 8 New hires aged 30 to 50 1,986 205 17 39 355 276 35 61 113 861 24 New hires aged 50+ 602 66 5 11 107 122 12 22 44 210 3 Total new hires by gender 4,160 466 23 55 684 503 69 100 226 1,999 35 New hires men 3,584 368 21 51 580 436 54 75 195 1,769 35 New hires women 576 98 2 4 104 67 15 25 31 230 0 Rate new hires aged below 30 (%) 37.8 41.8 4.3 9.1 32.5 20.9 31.9 17.0 30.5 46.4 22.9 Rate new hires aged 30 to 50 (%) 47.7 44.0 73.9 70.9 51.9 54.9 50.7 61.0 50.0 43.1 68.6 Rate new hires aged 50+ (%) 14.5 14.2 21.7 20.0 15.6 24.3 17.4 22.0 19.5 10.5 8.6 Rate new hires men (%) 86.2 79.0 91.3 92.7 84.8 86.7 78.3 75.0 86.3 88.5 100.0 Rate new hires women (%) 13.8 21.0 8.7 7.3 15.2 13.3 21.7 25.0 13.7 11.5 0.0 Total fluctuation by age group 2,129 512 334 36 578 137 67 23 48 387 7 Left the company aged below 30 624 180 52 6 182 34 18 2 17 133 0 Left the company aged 30 to 50 1,048 193 260 25 276 75 26 13 13 161 6 Left the company aged 50+ 457 139 22 5 120 28 23 8 18 93 1 Total fluctuation by gender 2,129 512 334 36 578 137 67 23 48 387 7 Men who left the company 1,742 397 315 30 504 128 53 9 37 264 5 Women who left the company 387 115 19 6 74 9 14 14 11 123 2 Fluctuation rate aged below 30 (%) 29.3 35.2 15.6 16.7 31.5 24.8 26.9 8.7 35.4 34.4 0.0 Fluctuation rate aged 30 to 50 (%) 49.2 37.7 77.8 69.4 47.8 54.7 38.8 56.5 27.1 41.6 85.7 Fluctuation rate aged 50+ (%) 21.5 27.1 6.6 13.9 20.8 20.4 34.3 34.8 37.5 24.0 14.3 Fluctuation rate men (%) 81.8 77.5 94.3 83.3 87.2 93.4 79.1 39.1 77.1 68.2 71.4 Fluctuation rate women (%) 18.2 22.5 5.7 16.7 12.8 6.6 20.9 60.9 22.9 31.8 28.6 Basis for calculation: staff employed for the full year PORR Sustainability Report 2019 81 Appendix 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total new hires by age group 2,343 652 18 49 858 99 32 31 144 460 New hires aged below 30 851 194 3 16 311 24 14 5 49 235 New hires aged 30 to 50 1,102 308 15 28 411 52 15 21 67 185 New hires aged 50+ 390 150 0 5 136 23 3 5 28 40 Total new hires by gender 2,343 652 18 49 858 99 32 31 144 460 New hires men 1,886 541 12 40 757 89 19 24 109 295 New hires women 457 111 6 9 101 10 13 7 35 165 Rate new hires aged below 30 (%) 36.3 29.8 16.7 32.7 36.2 24.2 43.8 16.1 34.0 51.1 Rate new hires aged 30 to 50 (%) 47.0 47.2 83.3 57.1 47.9 52.5 46.9 67.7 46.5 40.2 Rate new hires aged 50+ (%) 16.6 23.0 0.0 10.2 15.9 23.2 9.4 16.1 19.4 8.7 Rate new hires men (%) 80.5 83.0 66.7 81.6 88.2 89.9 59.4 77.4 75.7 64.1 Rate new hires women (%) 19.5 17.0 33.3 18.4 11.8 10.1 40.6 22.6 24.3 35.9 Total fluctuation by age group 2,385 416 725 36 520 105 13 10 210 350 Left the company aged below 30 656 76 190 7 159 21 4 3 96 100 Left the company aged 30 to 50 1,311 216 506 22 266 57 5 5 72 162 Left the company aged 50+ 418 124 29 7 95 27 4 2 42 88 Total fluctuation by gender 2,385 416 725 36 520 105 13 10 210 350 Men who left the company 2,104 346 712 33 474 90 8 7 187 247 Women who left the company 281 70 13 3 46 15 5 3 23 103 Fluctuation rate aged below 30 (%) 27.5 18.3 26.2 19.4 30.6 20.0 30.8 30.0 45.7 28.6 Fluctuation rate aged 30 to 50 (%) 55.0 51.9 69.8 61.1 51.2 54.3 38.5 50.0 34.3 46.3 Fluctuation rate aged 50+ (%) 17.5 29.8 4.0 19.4 18.3 25.7 30.8 20.0 20.0 25.1 Fluctuation rate men (%) 88.2 83.2 98.2 91.7 91.2 85.7 61.5 70.0 89.0 70.6 Fluctuation rate women (%) 11.8 16.8 1.8 8.3 8.8 14.3 38.5 30.0 11.0 29.4 Basis for calculation: staff employed for the full year 82 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI PARENTAL LEAVE 401-3 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Total staff on parental leave 377 72 0 1 101 6 1 7 27 162 0 Male staff 159 35 0 0 70 1 0 1 0 52 0 Female staff 218 37 0 1 31 5 1 6 27 110 0 Total returned after parental leave 236 50 0 1 95 3 0 0 5 82 0 Male staff 145 32 0 0 69 0 0 0 0 44 0 Female staff 91 18 0 1 26 3 0 0 5 38 0 Staff retained after twelve months 184 36 0 0 73 1 0 5 0 69 0 Male staff 110 24 0 0 49 0 0 0 0 37 0 Female staff 74 12 0 0 24 1 0 5 0 32 0 Staff retention rate (%) 78.0 72.0 0.0 0.0 76.8 33.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 84.1 0.0 Retention rate male staff (%) 75.9 75.0 0.0 0.0 71.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 84.1 0.0 Retention rate female staff (%) 81.3 66.7 0.0 0.0 92.3 33.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 84.2 0.0 Basis for calculation for staff retained after twelve months: staff on parental leave and those returned after parental leave within the year under review – the figure is not spread out over the year 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total staff on parental leave 297 64 2 2 82 15 2 2 15 113 Male staff 116 36 0 0 49 3 0 0 1 27 Female staff 181 28 2 2 33 12 2 2 14 86 Total returned after parental leave 202 63 3 0 67 4 2 0 5 58 Male staff 110 36 1 0 48 1 0 0 1 23 Female staff 92 27 2 0 19 3 2 0 4 35 Staff retained after twelve months 124 45 2 0 15 4 0 0 3 55 Male staff 54 29 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 22 Female staff 70 16 1 0 15 3 0 0 2 33 Staff retention rate (%) 61.4 71.4 66.7 0.0 22.4 100.0 0.0 0.0 60.0 94.8 Retention rate male staff (%) 49.1 80.6 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 95.7 Retention rate female staff (%) 76.1 59.3 50.0 0.0 78.9 100.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 94.3 GRI WORK-RELATED INJURIES 403-9 2019 Total DE QA 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Fatalities caused by work-related injuries 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Serious injury (without fatalities) 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 Work-related injuries documented 571 94 1 3 29 0 5 2 7 430 0 Hours worked 36,080,526 5,830,066 2,494,628 567,680 3,677,279 851,926 382,600 219,210 1,752,304 18,394,357 1,910,476 Rate of fatalities caused by work-related injuries (%) 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rate of serious work-related injuries (without fatalities) (%) 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 Rate of work-related injuries documented (%) 15.8 16.1 0.4 5.3 7.9 0.0 13.1 9.1 4.0 23.4 0.0 1 QA: low number of hours worked due to completion of projects in 2018 and final completion phase in 2019 Calculation key QA: pro rata project volumes in accordance with the requirements of the Qatar Construction Standard 2014 and client specifications Basis for calculation: staff employed for the full year Rate calculation: number of fatalities/work-related injuries/work-related injuries documented * 1,000,000/hours worked PORR Sustainability Report 2019 83 Appendix 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Fatalities caused by work-related injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Serious injury (without fatalities) 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 Work-related injuries documented 556 84 6 2 30 1 6 0 5 422 Hours worked 46,460,822 5,514,615 16,900,302 758,984 3,543,112 522,122 455,488 107,128 1,374,819 17,284,252 Rate of fatalities caused by work-related injuries (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rate of serious work-related injuries (without fatalities) (%) 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Rate of work-related ­injuries documented (%) 12.0 15.2 0.4 2.6 8.5 1.9 13.2 0.0 3.6 24.4 Basis for calculation: staff employed for the full year Calculation key QA: pro rata project volumes in accordance with the requirements of the Qatar Construction Standard 2014 and client specifications GRI WORK-RELATED ILL HEALTH 403-10 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Fatalities caused by work-related ill health 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Documented instances of work-related ill health 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 Four cases of noise-induced hearing loss 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Fatalities caused by work-related ill health 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Documented instances of work-related ill health 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Four cases of noise-induced hearing loss 84 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR BY EMPLOYEE 404-1 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Training hours by gender 112,435.00 29,657.00 315.00 1,146.00 16,348.00 1,200.00 799.00 3,473.00 1,233.00 58,159.00 105.00 Male employees 74,488 20,682 288 707 9,894 832 632 1,693 780 38,875 105 Female employees 37,947 8,975 27 439 6,454 368 167 1,780 453 19,284 0 Training hours by ­employee category 112,435.00 29,657.00 315.00 1,146.00 16,348.00 1,200.00 799.00 3,473.00 1,233.00 58,159.00 105.00 Upper management 108.00 12.00 0.00 0.00 42.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 54.00 0.00 Middle and lower ­management 34,601.00 6,769.00 288.00 18.00 11,663.00 768.00 182.00 585.00 488.00 13,834.00 6.00 Non-management 77,726.00 22,876.00 27.00 1,128.00 4,643.00 432.00 617.00 2,888.00 745.00 44,271.00 99.00 Average training hours by employee category Upper management 4.91 4.00 0.00 0.00 42.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.18 0.00 Middle and lower ­management 23.13 21.29 9.60 2.25 52.07 12.59 5.69 36.56 8.00 18.92 0.40 Non-management 11.18 14.33 0.40 17.35 4.64 1.59 4.44 30.40 1.27 14.50 1.25 Average training hours by gender Male employees 12.51 15.34 3.65 15.71 12.45 4.14 5.02 22.57 1.66 14.27 1.15 Female employees 15.16 16.26 1.35 15.68 14.97 2.81 3.63 49.44 2.54 17.89 0.00 Upper management level: E1-E2 (Executive Board, managing directors) Middle and lower management levels: E3-E5 (department, unit, group and team managers) Basis for calculation: salaried employees 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Training hours by gender 95,672.00 22,280.00 288.00 1,931.00 7,382.00 1,840.00 748.00 2,388.00 3,090.00 55,725.00 Male employees 65,538 15,084 135 1,569 4,511 1,112 604 1,135 1,926 39,463 Female employees 30,134 7,196 153 363 2,872 728 144 1,253 1,164 16,262 Training hours by ­employee category 95,672.00 22,280.00 288.00 1,931.00 7,382.00 1,840.00 748.00 2,388.00 3,090.00 55,725.00 Upper management 52.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 52.00 Middle and lower ­management 26,612.50 5,155.00 93.00 655.50 5,293.00 1,584.00 197.00 454.00 1,481.00 11,700.00 Non-management 69,007.50 17,125.00 195.00 1,275.50 2,089.00 256.00 551.00 1,934.00 1,609.00 43,973.00 Average training hours by employee category Upper management 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.06 Middle and lower ­management 17.14 16.96 0.76 15.99 22.33 37.71 8.21 41.27 16.10 17.23 Non-management 12.10 11.59 0.96 39.86 3.74 1.60 4.48 84.09 7.00 15.18 Average training hours by gender Male employees 12.66 11.83 0.48 35.65 8.19 8.83 5.59 103.18 10.08 15.24 Female employees 14.38 14.17 3.56 12.50 11.77 9.58 3.69 54.48 8.89 16.21 Upper management: E1-E2 (Executive Board, managing directors) Middle and lower management: E3-E5 (department, unit, group and team managers) Basis for calculation: salaried employees PORR Sustainability Report 2019 85 Appendix GRI PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS 404-3 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Performance review by gender 6,234 1,218 218 44 1,027 171 122 62 278 3,041 53 Male employees 4,440 851 187 27 674 110 89 46 211 2,196 49 Female employees 1,794 367 31 17 353 61 33 16 67 845 4 Percentage of all employees who received a performance review 86.7 75.8 100.0 67.7 100.0 98.8 84.7 86.1 61.8 90.0 100.0 Male employees (%) 84.8 72.1 100.0 64.3 100.0 98.2 83.2 86.8 61.5 88.2 100.0 Female employees (%) 92.1 86.4 100.0 73.9 100.0 100.0 89.2 84.2 62.6 95.1 100.0 Performance reviews by employee category 1 6,234 1,218 218 44 1,027 171 122 62 278 3,041 53 Upper management 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 Middle and lower management 1,169 226 10 10 208 35 25 9 25 609 12 Non-management 5,053 992 208 34 819 136 97 53 253 2,420 41 Upper management (%) 75.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 80.0 0.0 Middle and lower management (%) 87.4 75.6 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 89.3 64.3 51.0 90.5 100.0 Non-management (%) 86.6 76.0 100.0 61.8 100.0 98.6 83.6 91.4 63.1 89.9 100.0 1 No comparative data as the indicator was applied for the first time in 2019 Basis for calculation: salaried employees The basis for calculation is the number of talks actually held in relation to the number of employees with whom a talk had been planned Upper management: E1-E2 (Executive Board, managing directors) Middle and lower management: E3-E5 (department, unit, group and team managers) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL CH SK CZ AT Performance review by gender 5,188 914 309 45 681 126 54 315 2,744 Male employees 3,799 638 283 29 442 91 37 234 2,045 Female employees 1,389 276 26 16 239 35 17 81 699 Employees receiving regular performance reviews by gender Male employees (%) 83.3 80.0 100.0 76.3 69.2 97.9 100.0 77.0 86.4 Female employees (%) 85.4 83.4 100.0 84.2 73.8 100.0 100.0 81.0 90.2 Figures relate to salaried employees 86 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix GRI DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES 405-1 2019 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT UAE Male members of governance bodies (%) 91.2 91.7 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 83.3 0.0 Female members of ­governance bodies (%) 8.8 8.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.7 0.0 Members of governance bodies aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Members of governance bodies aged 30 to 50 (%) 23.5 8.3 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 33.3 0.0 Members of governance bodies aged 50+ (%) 76.5 91.7 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 50.0 66.7 0.0 Men in upper management (%) 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 Women in upper management (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Men in middle and lower management (%) 89.1 93.7 93.3 87.5 80.8 75.4 90.6 75.0 95.1 90.3 93.3 Women in middle and lower management (%) 10.9 6.3 6.7 12.5 19.2 24.6 9.4 25.0 4.9 9.7 6.7 Men in non-management positions (%) 84.6 80.7 87.1 79.9 80.2 81.5 82.6 78.8 83.7 86.8 100.0 Women in non-management positions (%) 15.4 19.3 12.9 20.1 19.8 18.5 17.4 21.2 16.3 13.2 0.0 Upper management aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Upper management aged 30 to 50 (%) 13.6 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 0.0 Upper management aged 50+ (%) 86.4 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 94.1 0.0 Middle and lower management aged below 30 (%) 0.5 0.0 3.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 Middle and lower management aged 30 to 50 (%) 58.2 47.2 63.3 37.5 65.2 88.5 65.6 50.0 63.9 57.9 46.7 Middle and lower management aged 50+ (%) 41.4 52.8 33.3 62.5 34.8 11.5 34.4 50.0 36.1 41.3 53.3 Non-management aged below 30 (%) 20.9 19.3 10.8 11.5 23.4 13.7 25.9 13.2 13.8 22.3 22.8 Non-management aged 30 to 50 (%) 49.3 46.3 85.6 74.8 51.3 58.8 50.2 69.5 53.2 47.5 69.6 Non-management aged 50+ (%) 29.8 34.5 3.6 13.7 25.4 27.4 23.9 17.2 33.0 30.3 7.6 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 87 Appendix DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Male members of governance bodies (%) 92.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 83.3 Female members of ­governance bodies (%) 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.7 Members of governance bodies aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Members of governance bodies aged 30 to 50 (%) 28.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 33.3 Members of governance bodies aged 50+ (%) 72.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 50.0 66.7 Men in upper management (%) 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Women in upper management (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Men in middle and lower management (%) 89.4 94.7 89.4 75.6 80.2 78.6 95.8 63.6 97.8 90.9 Women in middle and lower management (%) 10.6 5.3 10.6 24.4 19.8 21.4 4.2 36.4 2.2 9.1 Men in non-management positions (%) 85.8 80.7 96.1 71.6 80.5 75.8 82.3 74.7 80.4 88.3 Women in non-management positions (%) 14.2 19.3 3.9 28.4 19.5 24.2 17.7 25.3 19.6 11.7 Upper management aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Upper management aged 30 to 50 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Upper management aged 50+ (%) 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Middle and lower management aged below 30 (%) 1.5 0.0 12.2 14.6 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Middle and lower management aged 30 to 50 (%) 57.3 49.3 71.5 80.5 58.2 85.7 62.5 54.5 44.6 56.4 Middle and lower management aged 50+ (%) 41.1 50.7 16.3 4.9 41.4 14.3 37.5 45.5 55.4 43.3 Non-management aged below 30 (%) 20.8 17.5 29.5 17.9 27.3 12.3 24.2 9.3 13.9 20.7 Non-management aged 30 to 50 (%) 49.4 47.9 67.9 68.7 50.3 62.5 47.4 76.0 51.3 47.4 Non-management aged 50+ (%) 29.8 34.6 2.6 13.4 22.5 25.3 28.4 14.7 34.7 31.8 88 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix Responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge that this consolidated We are currently experiencing a crisis that is having drastic non-financial report, which has been produced in accordance effects on every aspect of our lives. In addition to concerns with the reporting guidelines of the GRI Standards (“Core” for the health of our staff and their families, our attention is option), contains the disclosures required in accordance with focused on the company’s economic stability and consequently Sections 267a(2) and 243b(2) of the Austrian Commercial Code to on safeguarding thousands of jobs. Unfortunately, it is not facilitate an understanding of the business performance, the possible at present to forecast what the actual economic impacts business results, the current state of PORR AG and the impacts will be. However, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of its activities, and shows as a minimum how they relate to of PORR AG can provide assurance that PORR AG and the environmental, social and employee matters, to upholding human PORR Group are on a robust footing and are very well prepared rights, and to preventing corruption and bribery. The disclosures for difficult times. include a description of the business model of PORR AG and the concepts pursued in relation to the issues including due-diligence In order to protect the health of staff members in relation to the processes, material risks that would probably have a negative spread of the coronavirus and to conform to requirements impact on the matters referenced, as well as the results of these imposed by the government, PORR has introduced additional concepts and the most important performance indicators. health and safety measures in accordance with this action plan. Measures have been implemented in areas such as workplace hygiene, organisational measures, work equipment, at-risk groups, staff transport, dormitories and construction site coordination in particular. Vienna, 23 April 2020 The Executive Board Karl-Heinz Andreas Sauer Josef Pein Thomas Stiegler Strauss CFO COO COO CEO PORR Sustainability Report 2019 89 Appendix Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report GRI 102-56 The German text of the signed confirmation report, which refers keitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz NaDiVeG) as well as to the German version of the non-financial reporting 2019, is the GRI Standards Core Option. We believe that these criteria are the only legally binding version. The English translation has no appropriate for the performance of our audit engagement. legal effect. In particular, it cannot be used for interpreting the German text. Management responsibilities The management of PORR AG is responsible for the preparaSubject matter of the contract tion of this report and for the information contained therein, We have been appointed by PORR AG to perform procedures to in ­accordance with the above criteria. This responsibility of obtain limited assurance (hereinafter “audit”) of the statements management includes selecting and applying appropriate and data on the non-financial reporting of 2019 (hereinafter methods of non-financial reporting and making assumptions “reporting”) of PORR AG, based on the requirements according to and estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures Art. 267a UGB Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act that are reasonable in the circumstances. In addition, manage(Austrian Commercial Code, Nachhaltigkeits-und Diversitätsverment is responsible for internal control relevant to the preparabesserungsgesetz NaDiVeG) and the GRI Standards Core Option. tion and fair presentation of non-financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit procedures were taken to achieve limited audit security as a basis for our assessment. The scope of audit procedures for Declaration of independence and quality obtaining audit evidence is smaller than the scope for sufficient We have complied with the Austrian professional provisions audit security (such as for an annual audit), so that a low degree regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. of audit security is given. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Quality Clarification of the audit engagement Control 1 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance  he audit of forward-looking statements was not the subject T Standards Board (IAASB). of our engagement. Equally, neither the detection and clarification of criminal Our responsibility offences, such as embezzlement or other malicious acts, nor It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the information the assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of manageincluded in the Report on the basis of the limited assurance ment were the subject of our engagement. engagement. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with Austrian generally accepted Criteria standards for other audits (KFS/PG 13) and the International The information included in the report was based on the criteria Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised). In a applicable in the financial year 2019 (“the criteria”) consisting of: limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are Requirement according to Art. 267a UGB Sustainability and Diverless extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement and sity Improvement Act (Austrian Commercial Code, Nachhaltigtherefore less assurance is obtained. 90 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix Our procedures Conclusion The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement and Based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence are described as follows: obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information relating to the defined report  btaining an overview of the business activities as well as O contents in reporting for the period from 1 January 2019 to the company’s structural and process organisation; 31 December 2019 are not in accordance with the criteria Interviewing employees responsible for materiality analysis on identified above. group level in order to gain an understanding of the procedure for identifying significant sustainability issues and the Limitation of use corresponding reporting boundaries of the company; We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed Risk assessment, including a media analysis on relevant with PORR AG. It is not subject of our performance to consider information about the company’s sustainability performance the interests of third parties. It serves exclusively the contracting during the reporting period; authority and their purposes. Thus, it is not aiming at and Interviews with company managers to identify and understand intending to serve third parties as basis of decision-making. relevant systems, processes and internal controls; We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Inspection of selected internal and external documents to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information Terms of contract is supported by sufficient evidence and presented fairly; The “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Performing analytical procedures on Group level; Professions”, issued by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Assessment as to whether the requirements were addressed Tax Advisors, Version of 18 April 2018 are binding for this engageappropriately according to Art. 267a UGB; ment. According to that, our liability is limited, and an accountant Assessment as to whether the GRI Standards were consistent is only liable for violating intentionally or by gross negligence the with the Core Option. contractual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence, the maximum liability towards PORR AG and any third party totals EUR 726,730. Vienna, 23 April 2020 BDO Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Mag. Klemens Eiter Auditor ppa. Mag. Sanela Terko Tax Consultant PORR Sustainability Report 2019 91 Acknowledgements Media proprietor PORR AG Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna T +43 50 626-0 office@porr-group.com porr-group.com Concept, realisation and editing PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility be.public Corporate & Financial Communications GmbH, 1190 Vienna Photos Adobe Stock (p. 53), AnnA BlaU (p. 37), Astrid Knie (p. 5), Bautech Labor GmbH (p. 32 et seq.), BIM Excellence (p. 14), Harry Schiffer (p. 3), Heinz Stephan Tesarek (p. 35), Klaus Helbig (p. 20), Klaus Vyhnalek (p. 44), Kurt Hörbst (cover), Linus Lintner Fotografie (p. 19), Marc Lins Photography (p. 30), Nina Kaltenböck/Jakub Han (p. 6, left), Philipp Lipiarski (p. 7, below), PORR (p. 7 above, 10, 22 et seq., 27, 38 et seq., 46 et seq., 51, 54, 56), PORR/APA/Rastegar (p. 6, right), PORR/APA/Tesarek (p. 48), Robert Deopito (p. 58), Walter Oberbramberger (p. 41) Printing Druckwerkstatt Hosnedlgasse 16b, 1220 Vienna Further information PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna csr@porr-group.com 92 PORR Sustainability Report 2019 Disclaimer Every care has been taken to ensure that all information contained in every part of this Sustainability Report is accurate and complete. The figures have been rounded off using the compensated summation method. We regret that we cannot rule out possible round-off, typesetting and printing errors. This report is a translation into English of the report issued in the German language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. In the event of a discrepancy or translation error, the ­German-language version prevails. porr-group.com
