STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Al Sulaiti Law Firm supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Al Sulaiti Law Firm will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. I am delighted to submit Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s fourth annual Communication on Progress Report. This report describes the ongoing steps we have taken during 2019 and 2020 to embed the Global Compact and its ten Principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our firm and I am delighted that we have made significant improvements in the last 12 months. The report also includes our objectives for 2020/2021, as the Global Compact and its Principles are further integrated into our business. The Global Compact provides our firm with the a clear framework for action on sustainability and Al Sulaiti Law Firm is committed to continuous improvement in all key impact areas. Aligning our business with the Principles and reporting against them on an annual basis enables us to ensure we remain focused on the issues most relevant to us as a global business and to playing our part in the crucially important transition to a sustainable future. Sincerely yours, Mubarak bin Abdullah Al Sulaiti Chairman and Founder www.alsulaitilawfirm.com ABOUT AL SULAITI LAW FIRM A Qatari law firm with a regional reach and a global outlook. Al Sulaiti Law Firm is one of the largest law firms in the region with offices across 17 countries. Established in 2002 by Mr. Mubarak bin Abdullah Al-Sulaiti, we are a fullservice renowned law firm combining knowledge, experience and expertise to ensure our clients have access to the best legal solutions, cutting-edge legal services and solutions to local, national and international clients. With more than eighteen years of experience, Al Sulaiti Law Firm has fast become one of the most prominent and reputable law firms in Qatar. Our capable team is combined of regional and western qualifications and in-depth knowledge of government institutions, local laws, regulations and their application, together with technical and legal expertise and best practice. Our team is comprised of lawyers that speak both English and Arabic in addition to French and Italian and we are placed to navigate our clients through all their requirements. Al-Sulaiti Law Firm provides its services to link the gap between international legal systems and local legal systems either at the local or regional levels. The firm’s main specialty is Middle East and North African laws; it is operating through its qualified lawyers from different legal systems to ensure that it provides clients with the most sufficient legal service not only in the State of Qatar but also across the MENA region. We have professional bonds with law firms in Italy, France, USA, Kuwait, Lebanon, Egypt, South Africa, Turkey and India. Our global outreach enables us to provide the finest legal services to our clients. We specialize in sectors that include Civil & Criminal Litigation, Alternative Dispute Resolution, Corporate and Commercial Law, Mergers and Acquisitions, Private Equity, Real Estate and Construction, Sports Law, Environmental Law, International Trade Law, Intellectual Property, Financial Fraud, Employment and Immigration Law, and Taxation. At Al Sulaiti Law firm we believe in the power of teamwork, of being ‘One firm’, collegiality, communication and solidarity. Being focused on having an amicable relationship with our clients is an integral part of our performance; this permits us to build a strong bond with the client enabling us to perform at better and higher standards. One of our core aims is to constantly exceed our client’s expectations. At Al Sulaiti Law firm we are always committed to delivering the best quality of service to all of our respected clients, both existing and potential. www.alsulaitilawfirm.com INTRODUCTION Al Sulaiti Law Firm has been recognized as an active member of the United Nations global compact initiative since August 2016, making it the first and only Law Firm in Qatar to pledge to the UNGC 10 principles in the areas of human rights, Labor, environment, and anti-corruption. To run a successful business we must assure that our staff wellbeing is being taken care of and that all of members of Al Sulaiti Law firm are working in an non-biased work environment. Our work ethic is constantly developing, we are accommodating change to our daily practice, and with continuous board meetings and firm meetings we are strengthening the bond between one another. We have decided to embark on this journey with the UNGC to strengthen our CSR Policy and initiative. We have a great responsibility towards our community, our youth the environment and holding a responsible business. In the following report, you will find out more about Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s adherence to the UNGC’s 10 Principles in the areas of; 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-corruption and Anti-Bribery www.alsulaitilawfirm.com HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuses. Al Sulaiti Law Firm is committed to supporting and respecting human rights through our business operations and ensuring that we are not in conflict in human rights abuses. Every human being is entitles to basic human rights, which is freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. Unfortunately, not everyone has access to the help or resources required to uphold these rights. Al Sulaiti Law Firm has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We recognize that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while we have the resources and expertise to assist. Al Sulaiti Law Firm respects the International Human Rights Principle aimed at promoting and protecting human rights, including the United Nations Declarations of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we are an active participant to the United Nations Global Compact. Through our people and client experience, we as a firm are dedicated in upholding human rights and to creating an inclusive working environment. In a fast paced, changing world we are committed to making sure all firm policies continue to be fit for purpose, are inclusive and are aligned to best practice and compliant with regulation and law. Our Shared Enterprise culture provides us with the opportunity to continually explore new ideas and firm wide goals together, allowing us to continually review and develop the practices, processes and policies we have in place, ensuring the firm’s ongoing support and commitment to our people in relation to human rights. At Al Sulaiti Law Firm, we are dedicated to promoting and upholding human rights to create an inclusive and fair working environment. Reacting to the dynamic world, we are committed to making sure that our Firm’s Human Rights Policy fits and is aligned to the regulation and law. As a law firm, we understand the importance of a healthy working environment that enables our employees to be feel comfortable and at ease hence, we take our workspace atmosphere very seriously. We promote cultural diversity in the office by www.alsulaitilawfirm.com recruiting people of different race, nationality, gender, religion, age and disability thus making Al Sulaiti a law firm that respects cultural diversity. ACTIVITIES v The professional working environment We provide our employees with a professional structured working environment where they are provided with clear instructions and guidelines. Communication tools such as feedback and experience based instructions are also provided to the employee to make the job process efficient and effective avoiding the consequences of miscommunication. v Physical working environment Al Sulaiti Law Firm complies with the rules, guidelines, and standards for a safe working environment that The Ministry of Environment condemns on all employers to have. We have adedicated staff department that ensures the office is in a clean state at all times. Our firm believes that clean air and sunlight is essential to stay healthy and we make sure that all our employees get the right amount of daily air and sun nutrition. v Mental working environment Al Sulaiti Law firm does not tolerate any harassment or stereotype against any colleague or employee. Hence, we take it very seriously to make sure that we do not accept this kind of behavior at our offices and if someone is exposed to such behavior, it is their responsibility to report this matter to the Human Resources department or even to upper management. v Qatar Lawyers Association Al Sulaiti Law firm works with Qatar Lawyers on a programme called (Dafaa Balaa). This programme is aimed at providing www.alsulaitilawfirm.com LABOUR Al Sulaiti Law Firm promotes and supports the United Nations Global Compact Principle; Labour. At our firm we believe in cultural diversity in the office thus we …. We are committed to international best practices in regards to hiring, employment mobility and employee progression. The firm recognizes that it is responsible for the health and safety of its people whether on site or carrying out business off site. It is the firm’s responsibility to review and update its policy as to reflect any changes in the Qatar Law and Legislation. PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ACTIVTIES v A Healthy and Safe Work Environment The firm understands and takes full account for maintaining a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. Al Sulaiti complies with all safety and health requirements implied by the Qatari law. The firm makes sure that staff is aware of their responsibilities in terms of health and safety provided that they are given sufficient information and instruction to allow them to carry our their responsibilities effectively. www.alsulaitilawfirm.com v Suggestion Surveys Employees are given the freedom of speech at Al Sulaiti Law Firm to suggest any changes they would like to see and why they think so. We provide the employees of SLF an opportunity to express their concerns or opinions by introducing a survey distributed to all levels of staff. These surveys that are designed to get a glimpse of employee satisfaction, engagement and morale. v Newsletter Al Sulaiti Law Firm’s prime responsibilities is to spread awareness and news that will help employees in their daily work activities and enlighten them on different topics. The firm encourages the participation of its employees in workshops, seminars and conferences because the world is so dynamic that we need to follow up to stay up to date with everything. These training events are also a key networking tool, which is an essential part of our job as lawyers. v Education Above All Al Sulaiti Law Firm and Education Above All have collaborated towards a good cause. The firm organized for a charity gala on May 2020 however due to the Covid-19 situation we could not go ahead with a large group gathering and instead we created a donation link that we sent to our partners and clients to raise awareness and funds for the less fortunate that do not have access to proper education. We continue to support this foundation and we work on allocating funds for them. v Equal Employment Opportunity Our firm makes sure that recruitment is fair and according to certain procedures that abide by the firm’s code of conduct. We do not allow room for any discrimination against employees due to their nationality, race or gender. If any of our employees are subject to offences in the office or during business hours they are required to report this matter to the HR department or upper management, which ever they feel more comfortable with. v Women in Law We recognize that women may face some challenges in the legal industry in our community. This is something we are working on and must change. We encourage women to apply to our law firm hence offering an inclusive culture where everyone feels valued, respected and supported. www.alsulaitilawfirm.com THE ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The environment and its sustainability require dedication and management. In order to succeed at improving our community and environment we have developed an environmental strategy where we are committed to the protection of the environment using the power we hold to minimize the negative effects the supply chain has on our environment. The firm’s environmental Policy has taken the following actions: v Recycle Our main point of action started at the office. Al Sulaiti Law Firm accepts and respects the legislation concerning the environment and hence has set out actions that adhere to it. The environment is an essential part of our lives and to that, we care about it; thus choosing to implement a paper and plastic recycling campaign that includes all of Al Sulaiti’s employees. v Reduce We understand how much electricity and energy we consume daily and so are working on reducing the amount by informing employees to switch lights and computers off when they are not in use. We are also working on reducing business flights and increasing the use of video conferencing. v Sustain We only use mugs in our offices to avoid using and wasting plastic/paper cups. We try to if the situation allows sending E-Quotations and Invoices to help reduce the waste of paper. In order to sustain the environmental policy in our office we constantly remind the employees through posters, “switch me off” stickers and newsletters. www.alsulaitilawfirm.com ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are proud to confirm that we are fulfilling this principle fully. Our law firm has no tolerance for corruption, including extortion and bribery. The firm is committed to working against corruption and fraud in all forms and implementing the necessary policies and processes to ensure compliance at all levels; individually and firm wise. Our policy is to conduct business according to ethical standards and we make sure that everyone at Al Sulaiti Law Firm understands what those standards are. We do not tolerate bribery or the mishandling of funds or data. Al Sulaiti Law Firm is committed to the security and safety of all client and firm data as we understand confidentiality is of high importance. v Whistleblowing A whistleblowing policy exists in our firm where we encourage employees to report any corrupt or illegal behavior. The lawyers, management and all employees are asked on a regular basis to report any suspicious information they think might lead to bribery or corruption. v Quality We believe in quality work and quality standards. We have ateam promoted to quality control in order to ensure that our services are delivered in a high quality and standards manner. ISO 9001 Al Sulaiti Law Firm has been ISO 9001 – 2000 certified since 2006. Our firm is committed to the delivering the highest quality of standard we are capable of and to continuously develop ways for improvement. This international standard is based on the quality management principles that improve the organization’s performance. www.alsulaitilawfirm.com
