Sustainability Report 2019 Elawan Energy Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the Chairman 4 Letter from the CEO 6 Our company Elawan Energy, S.L. 9 Elawan in figures 10 Global Presence 12 Sustainable Development Goals 15 Our vision on Materiality 19 sustainability Associations and organizations 21 Governance and Governance 23 compliance model Compliance model 27 Global context 29 Growth 30 Balance 32 Economic Risk and opportunities 34 dimension Information Security 37 Cultural Change DWP 38 Our product 40 Supply Chain 41 People 43 Social Health and safety 48 dimension Social Action 52 Environmental Environmental Management 55 dimension Circular Economy 58 Energy and climate change 59 I Independent Review Report 63 II Report Profile 64 Annexes III GRI Content Index 64 IV Global Compact Principles 70 V Scope 71 Mission Our mission is to satisfy our customers’ needs globally, considering their activity, the safety of our employees and respect for the environment. Technology Wind Solar Hydraulics Values Honestity Humility Tenacity Work Letter from the Chairman 102-14 It is my pleasure to present the Sustainability Report of Elawan Energy, S.L., for the year 2019. The Report summarizes our main initiatives in economic, social and environmental matters, showcasing the way we integrate sustainability into our decisions in order to continue growing as a profitable and sustainable company. In recent years, the notable increase in natural disasters and social demands to reduce pollution levels as well as provide a cleaner and more sustainable future for generations to come, has made the fight against climate change a very important one. The latest report from the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that if global warming is to be kept well below 2°C, or even 1.5°C, then reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors, efficiency and promoting renewable energies are essential. In addition, several external factors are currently shaping the agendas of major companies, with climate change appearing for the first time in the Top 10 of the most relevant risks, according to the Risk in Focus: Hot topics for internal auditors report. ECIIA. In this context, Elawan Energy, as a global operator in the renewable energy sector with a total of 712 MW installed and a portfolio of 10 GW distributed among Spain, Belgium, France, Poland, Brazil, USA, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, Romania and Russia, plays a very important role in helping to mitigate these effects. 2019 concluded in a satisfactory manner for Elawan, with a turnover of around 87 million euros, an EBIDTA of 60 million euros and a profit before tax of 14 million euros. In addition, we started up a new wind farm in Hannut, in the Liege area (Belgium) with a capacity of 21.6MW and two new solar plants; one in Torrijos (Toledo, Spain) with 35 MW and another one in Rzepin (Poland) with 0.5 MW. In addition, the construction of the new wind farm in Copperton (South Africa) with 102MW is well in progress. 4 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Renewing Elawan's commitment to the Global Compact In order to improve both the safety conditions of the and supporting the 10 Universal Principles, as well as the professionals and the environment in which they work, United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, is already the new SAFETY ALERTS Protocol for the company's an inescapable commitment. That is the reason why we operations and work systems stands out. This protocol promote initiatives that contribute to fulfilling these goals, contributes to the effective communication of health and and mainly the ones directly related to our activity, the safety and environmental alerts that may occur in any of generation of renewable energy. the facilities where we operate. It is a way of improving the participation and communication of the management Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and system and is a clear example of proactive incident modern energy for all (SDG7) and taking urgent action to management. combat climate change and its impacts (SDG13) represent a significant development opportunity for Elawan. In 2019, Finally, at Elawan we are aware that our development We generated 5,692,992 Gj of renewable energy, which must adapt to new ways of working and the benefits of helped to prevent 487,692 tons of CO2. the digital transformation. This is why in 2019 we started the deployment of the Digital WorkPlace project. We are In the development of the renewable energy projects, convinced that this project will be innovative and enhance biodiversity and respect for the environment is key. All the talent of the professionals working for the company. projects are carried out in compliance with environmental impact statements and environmental restoration initiatives All these actions and projects are possible thanks to a are undertaken to integrate them into the landscape. A team of highly qualified professionals who are committed clear example of this commitment is the revegetation plan to the company. Therefore, we are promoting quality developed at the Torrijos photovoltaic plant, which includes, employment in line with SDG8 Decent Work and Economic among other measures, bush islands and perimeter Growth , improving local employment where we develop our plantations, as well as the setting up of nests to encourage renewable energy projects and with our own staff, 89% of kestrel rearing. whom have permanent jobs. We have an Integrated Management System, duly Our long-term objective is to continue advancing in implemented in accordance with international standards the development of renewable energy projects (wind, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and ISO 45001 for the promotion, photovoltaic and hydroelectric), contributing to a cleaner development, operation and sales of renewable energy and more sustainable future, in an efficient and increasingly production facilities at international level, which helps us digital environment. to measure, control and improve the management of the I hope that you enjoy reading this Report as much as I hope company. that the growth prospects are met, contributing to a cleaner Health & Safety is a core aspect of the company, being part future. of its mission and strategic objectives. We are very proud of the results in this area with zero accidents within our own staff. These figures place the company in a position to achieve occupational safety values that are well above the average for the sector. Jon Riberas Chairman Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 5 Letter from the CEO 102-14 We present once again our Sustainability Report for the year than five years. Moreover, this energy must be replaced 2019. This is the seventh edition of this document in which by renewables, which undoubtedly represents a great we want to reflect the company's results in the economic, opportunity for a company like Elawan. social and environmental spheres, as well as showcase Additionally, there are significant business opportunities in the advances and developments in the strategy for 2020 energy management and storage systems where Elawan will and subsequent years. The report has been verified by an be present in different markets. independent body. Within this framework and given these prospects, renewable We cannot fail to mention in this document the difficult energies represent the majority of new electricity generation situation our planet is going through with the terrible and installed worldwide and will be the only ones to grow in the dramatic Covid-19 pandemic. There is no doubt that the very near future. social and economic effects are or will be devastating, but it is also true that a situation such as this has allowed us It is worth pointing out that there are still rapid technological to perceive that a more sustainable world is absolutely developments in the field of energy storage. The remarkable necessary and, as a matter of fact, achievable. evolution in batteries and storage systems, along with a very relevant reduction in their costs, will represent a revolution In previous issues of this Report we discussed the progress not only for renewable energies, but for the whole energy of decarbonisation, the pressure exerted by public opinion sector. Through these systems, renewable energies will no and the low costs of generating wind and photovoltaic longer need the support of conventional energy generation energy. Well, this year we can emphasize that the population to cover production gaps, distributed energy will be massified, has demanded faster changes for the energy sector and in much more efficiently and at lower cost, and we will witness almost all countries in the world, especially in Europe, these a change in traditional systems in the electricity sector. have been materialized in energy and climate plans that consider specific dates for the closure of highly polluting All of the above provides Elawan Energy with the right facilities, whether coal or nuclear generation. Some of these environment to continue developing the projects that will closures, by the time this report is published, will have already deliver energy to us over the coming years. taken place and the rest will come, at least in Europe, in less 6 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019 we started up our first two photovoltaic installations (in Spain and Poland), and in 2020 we are undertaking the construction of a macro-project in Albacete (Spain), which includes five photovoltaic plants totalling 250 MW and three wind farms with 150 MW. This project will be operational in the photovoltaic sector in the first quarter of 2021 and in the wind power sector at the end of the same year, representing a significant step forward in the size of the company's generation renewable energy projects, which will have more than 1,300 MW of fully operational renewable energy in 2021. And this is only the first stage of what will come later, with a portfolio of projects under development of more than 9 GW, with at least 4 GW to be built in the next five years. In order to meet all these challenges, we will continue to be a highly efficient company with comprehensive cost control and an exceptional professional team with broad experience and excellent capabilities. In addition, our management model is solid and sustainable, which will allow us to face the future successfully. I cannot miss this opportunity to thank all our team for their effort and dedication, and to express my gratitude to all our customers, suppliers and funders for their trust in Elawan. Dionisio Fernández Auray CEO Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 7 Our Company ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. is dedicated to investing in assets and projects aimed at the generation of energy through renewable sources and their management. Global Presence 27 farms/facilities in operation in 13 countries Renewable energy 23 wind farms, 2 solar plants and 2 mini-hydraulic Power 712MW in operation and 148MW under construction Growth 10GW in promotion / advanced promotion Business model Promotion, operation and construction of renewable energy plants, as the sell of electric energy produced by them. Elawan Energy, S.L. 102-2 Business model ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. is dedicated to the investment in asThe main activity of the company is the promotion, construcsets and projects designed to generate energy from renewable tion and operation of renewable energy plants, as well as the sources as well as their management. The company operates sale of the electrical energy produced by these, in the countries globally under the brand name “Elawan” (102-1). where we are present. The headquarters are located at (102-3): Our strategy is based on the development of projects from C/ Ombu 3, 10th floor scratch and on making the most of opportunities for the acqui28045 Madrid sition of more advanced projects, mainly in countries that stand out for their attractiveness for renewable energies, with the capacity to build and operate the projects, without ruling out the sale of some operating assets. New technologies Early Late Stage Start of Long term development Financing Construction operations operations development Capital rotation Elawan has a global corporate culture that preserves the The Copperton wind farm in South Africa with 102MW, same values from the very beginning, however it adapts the Humilpan wind farm in San Pedro (Mexico) with to the local needs of each country, the current market 30MW and the Pedra do Reino V (Brazil) expansion conditions and the demands of the stakeholders. with 16MW are in the construction phase, totalling 148 With regard to its activity, the company currently operafuture MW. tes 23 wind farms, 2 solar plants and 2 mini-hydroelecIn addition, the construction of the wind farms in the tric plants in 13 countries with a total of 712 MW. extension of Adares (Turkey) with 10.5 MW and SalaThis year, sales of projects in the development phase zine/Ciney (Belgium) with 11MW is scheduled to begin, in Brazil and Argentina were closed, and it is estimaas well as the photovoltaic plant in Los Campanarios ted that the earn out conditions associated with the (Spain) with 250 MW and in Gournay (France) with 5 contract signed in 2017 for the sale of the businesses MW, for a total of 276.5 new MW. in South Africa have been met, allowing us to reinvest Finally, 10 GW are expected to be in the promotion or in new assets. advanced promotion phase, distributed among Spain, In 2019, the new wind farm in Hannut (Belgium) came Belgium, France, Poland, Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, into operation with 21.6 MW and its Beaumont 2MW USA, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, Romania and Russia extension, as well as the photovoltaic plants in Torri(102-6). jos (Spain) with 35.7 MW and Rzepin (Poland) with 0.5 MW, totalling 59.8 new MW in operation. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 9 Main Figures Elawan understands the Sustainability as a model that integrated responsible management 2019 Elawan figures and a commitment of ethics, transparency and 102-7 collaboration with our stakeholders, in order to enjoy a cleaner environment and with fewer inequalities that contributes to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. 633 712MW EVD million euros in operation Economic Contribution Through our activity we generate numerous 571 benefits in the community around us. We dynamize local development improving access to the energy by promoting employment in the 148MW CAPEX under construction area, the growth of new suppliers, businesses, million euros as well as infrastructures. 13 countries 10GW in promotion Presence 14MW Assets 10MW 14MW Built 138MW 110MW 64MW 10MW 82MW 1.2 GW 57MW 25MW 24MW 88MW 74MW 128MW 106MW 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2015 0.9 GW 57MW 96MW Assets Sold 84MW 10 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 0 accidents by 70 own personnel Professionals Emissions 24 avoided 848 487,692 ISO14001 million € Certification Hours of tonCO2/year local suppliers training 45001 89% Emissions produced ISO 5,076GJ Certification permanent contracts 562 tonCO2/year Energy consumption Social Contribution 5,692,992GJ Energy Our activity requires the hiring of numerous local production workers for all the construction and maintenance operations to whom we offer a stable employment, which increases the economy of the area and the purchasing power of families. Environmental Contribution In addition, we carry out numerous social action activities to improve the environment and to Our activity is directly related to the generation of facilitate the access to energy in remote places. renewable energy (wind, solar and hydraulic), so we contribute to mitigating the carbon footprint and the effects of climate change, as it does not generate CO2 emissions. 12MW 200MW 2MW 22MW 36MW 0.5MW 11MW 82MW 48MW 102MW 12MW 16MW 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2024 33MW 346MW 299MW 24MW 10GW 74MW 132MW Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 11 Global presence 102-4 AND 102-6 13 Countries 70 Professionals Wind Mini hydro Solar Power GW in promotion 23 2 2 712 10 Farms Plants Plants MW USA 349MW 4 wind farms in operation 165 MW in promotion Mexico 14 MW 2 Mini hydros 1 wind farm in construction (30MW) 1,273 MW in promotion Colombia 349 MW in promotion Brazil 131 MW 10 wind farms in operation Argentina 1 wind farm in construction (16MW) 476 MW in promotion 1,073 MW in promotion 12 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Spain 44 MW Belgium 2 wind farms in operation 48 MW 1 wind farm in construction (250MW) 3 wind farms in operation 1 wind farm in construction (11MW) 1 solar plant in operation 348 MW in promotion 4,183 MW in promotion France 1 solar plant in operation (5MW) 322 MW in promotion Poland 10.5 MW 1 wind farm in operation 1 solar plant in operation 242 MW in promotion Romania Russia 213 MW in promotion 179 MW in promotion South Africa Turkey 1 wind farm in construction (102MW) 116 MW 222 MW in promotion 3 wind farms in operation 1 wind farm in construction (10.5MW) 1,018 MW in promotion Our vision on sustainability Following the launch of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015, a new roadmap, aligned with Agenda 2030, was initiated. SDG and Global Compact Aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals and the 10 Universal Principles of the Global Compact The fight against climate change SDG 13. Climate Action and SDG 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Safer working environments SDG 3. Good Health and Well-Being Job stability SDG 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Resource efficiency and renewable energy SDG 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 14 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 SDG Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Elawan integrates in its strategy important economic, social and environmental challenges for more profitable and sustainable future, firmly committed to the creation of a long-term value and the fight against climate change. Activity After the launch of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in 2015, we started a road map aligned with the Agenda 2030 that it helps to the compliance of this goals, in partiStrategy cular those related with our main activities, the renewable energy production. We have considered aspects related to our activity and strategy, the stakeholder’s opinions (materiality) and the more relevant social demands. Stakeholders Tendencies and demands E ByL l E RNeEnR natl a CR Ec ERC Ec ew GÍaAb IeMs I R net leE miiccaol EnAvm T n pEoN irobni eNnOeVrA em oóm on OsiRblEeSgP BLE rOoNwStAh g Soc Y ESTA ial L In this framework, the Sustainable Development Goals have a funSAa JBoIbLI LnUdD s DtAaDbLilAitByORA OS damental role: SGD 7 Affordable and clean energy , SGD 13 ClihD eDm EpLlOoS yeEeM hP eaLElA t mate action in the environmental context, SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth and SGD 12 Responsible consumption and production in the economic context and SGD 4 Quality education” and SGD 3 Good health and well-being in the social context. In all of them the “SGD 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development” is a key for its consecution. The most relevant SDG and their KPI's are described below. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 15 Elawan and the SDG Climate Change, energy and the SDG Our contribution in the fight against climate change Energy is a key element in our business. The measures that aim to reduce and/or offset these consumptions are highly beneficial, as they contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. In this line, renewable energies are a guarantee of sustainability due to their non-polluting properties, they are an inexhaustible source of energy, it is an increasingly competitive source of local energy with potential for use anywhere on the planet and, therefore, accessible worldwide. Furthermore, it does not produce greenhouse gases or polluting emissions, contributing to the fight against climate change and generating local prosperity and employment, which is why its development is essential to fighting climate change. Monitoring KPIs I To develop 3,000 new MW from renewable sources in the 2020-2025 period, contributing to the generation of energy without polluting emissions. In 2019, 58.5 new MW were put into operation and another 424.5 MW are under construction or awaiting completion in 2021. Since the adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the signing of the historic Paris Agreement (COP 21) in 2015, many initiatives have been developed, such as the European Green Deal, which includes a Climate Roadmap for the coming years for a fair transition to a carbon-neutral economy. The Fight against Climate Change is directly aligned with SDG 13 Climate Action and indirectly with SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all . The increase of societal, economic and political demands should also be mentioned, these require a shift in consumption patterns, a cleaner and emission-free environment, and towards a more just and equal society, enabling us to face the world´s biggest challenge: climate change. The situation in 2019 has not improved. In spite of the economic downturn and the decline in the use of coal, carbon dioxide emissions have increased to new records, with a growth of 0.6% compared to last year (in 2018 and 2017 this increase was of 2.1% and 1.5% respectively), according to the last Global Carbon Project report. As the World Meteorological Organization has highlighted, 2019 is the final year in the hottest decade ever recorded. 16 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Elawan and the SDG Education, security and SDG Our contribution to quality education and security At Elawan, we believe that investing in quality education is key to improving people's professional development and quality of life. Only through access to education can sustainable economic and social growth be guaranteed. Therefore, we are aligned with the SGD 4. Quality Education , through training and awareness of our professionals to increase their skills, in addition to helping through projects that contribute to improving schools, Internet access, digitalization and technological knowledge in countries with fewer resources where we are present. All this contributes to the development of a more qualified workforce and the access to better job opportunities. Also, aligned with the SGD 3. Good Health and Well-Being we support the improvement of the working conditions of our professionals through training and health and safety initiatives, preventing accidents at work and providing the necessary protection measures to prevent the spread of diseases such as COVID 19. Monitoring KPIs I To improve the education and qualification of our professionals in the field of Health and Safety, with the aim of achieving 300 hours of training per year by 2020-2025. A total of 224 hours of training were taught in 2019. II To have safer working environments, through In recent years, great progress has been made at the internatioinitiatives, measures and training, in order to nal level in relation to access to education, mainly by women and achieve the objective of 0 accidents among girls. However, discrimination and poverty still keep many people our professionals by 2025. from the opportunity to obtain a quality education. Today, more In 2019, no accidents have occurred among our than 262 million children and young people are not in school. Six professionals, enabling us to be in line with this out of ten children have not yet acquired basic literacy and nuobjective. meracy skills after several years of schooling. 750 million adults are illiterate, which contributes to poverty and marginalization. Many of the schools lack the basic elements for quality teaching, have a shortage of trained teachers and inadequate facilities without access to, among other things, the Internet, computers, drinking water or electricity. According to the ILO report World Employment and Social Prospects: Trends 2019 , the evolution in the reduction of unemployment at a global level is not accompanied by improvements in the quality of work, where millions of people are forced to accept poor working conditions, complicating the attainment of SDG 8 Decent work . This fact is increased by the COVID 19 pandemic that is affecting the whole world from the beginning of 2020 and that will increase diseases, unemployment, inequalities and resources to fight all these problems. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 17 Elawan and the SDG Decent work, sustainable production and the SDG Our contribution to decent work and responsible production and consumption At Elawan we believe that global change is required to move towards formal, diverse, secure and stable employment that complies with human and labour rights, improving education, reducing pay gaps and inequalities, paving the way for a more fair and equal society. Therefore, as a global company, we contribute to the improvement of this environment through providing stable, lasting quality employment, which allows us to create local wealth in the communities that we operate in, and so contribute to the achievement of SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth . Furthermore, to contribute to a cleaner and healthier environment it is essential to promote the efficient use of resources and energy, the building of environmentally friendly infrastructure, the improvement of access to basic services, such as energy, and the creation of stable and secure jobs Therefore, our activity is directly aligned with SGD 12. Responsible consumption and production and contribute to achieving sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources by 2030. The world’s population is expected to increase by 2 billion perMonitoring KPIs sons in the next 30 years, from 7.7 billion currently to 9.7 billion in 2050, at a level of nearly 11 billion around 2100. The average I We have the objective of creating 120 age of life expectancy and falling fertility levels, and migratory indirect local jobs in maintenance by 2025, movements are all increasing, and this will have an impact on fualigned with our expectations of growth ture generations (Source: The World Population Prospects 2019) and creation of local wealth in the countries where we operate, through stable local hiring, In 2018, the majority of the 3.3 billion employed people in the payment of living wages, and legal working world did not enjoy sufficient levels of economic security, mahours. terial well-being and equal opportunities. Currently, 700 million In 2019 a total of 5 indirect jobs have been people live in extreme or moderate poverty despite being emgenerated for maintenance work with the ployed (Source: World Employment and Social Prospects: Trends construction of the new Torrijos plant and Hannut 2019. ILO). wind farm. The report highlights the lack of progress on the gender gap. The female labour force participation rate was 48% compared to 75% for men. Another concern is the persistence of informal employment with 2 billion workers (61% of the world's workforce) and one in five young people (under 25) not working, studying or receiving training, thus compromising their job prospects. As a result, the consumption of natural resources is increasing, particularly in Asia, and air, water and soil pollution are also increasing. In this area, sustainable consumption and production is about doing more with fewer resources, which includes actions throughout the life cycle of products. 18 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality 102-40, 102-42 AND 102-43 The relation with our stakeholders is a primary matter for Elawan. to orientate the content of the Report in the relevant economic, In this context, we consider any collective that may hold a subssocial and environmental areas. tantial influence, and that is or could be affected by our activity. The company provides various specific communication channels Thus, since the publishing of the first Sustainability Report in for each of the identified stakeholders. This allows us to have an 2013 we analyze and update our stakeholders, to improve comactive dialogue, allowing for a faster and more efficient response munication and feedback channels true to their expectations and to trends and stakeholders´ needs, as summarized below: • Corporate intranet: Leading the Change • Breakfasts (meetings with the CEO) • Interdepartmental meetings, meetings with renewable energy projects supervisors • Grievance reporting channels • Subcontractor selection • Sustainability report criteria: • Email • Meetings Regular wind farm • Social media and website supervisor oversight • Financing contracts Monitoring and • Periodic reports measurement Employees Banks and Suppliers financial entities Electric companies • Regulations in Local communities each country and tenants • Reporting and communication requirements • Consultation periods in the Environmental Media Impact Assessments of the facilities Shareholders • Environmental and • Periodic meetings social diagnoses • Press room (available on of the Board of • Involvement of Elawan the website) Directors in social action • Issuance of press Local authorities • Communications • Agreements and releases and regulatory with the CEO partnerships with local • Announcements via bodies authorities social media • Periodic meetings • Licences, permits and authorisations Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 19 Materiality Study 102-44 Elawan has been carrying out annual materiality studies since This allowed us to group the relevant information into different 2014. After the analysis of the results in recent years, it concluded topics, which were surveyed before internal and external stakethat these material factors only show minimal variations, which is holders (management and employees) via a survey. The average why it was decided to carry out said analysis biannually, updating participation of the surveyed stakeholders was around 50% for this study in 2019. management and 57% for the employees. For this purpose, the material topics were identified through a benchmark on the companies in the sector, analysis and appraisal of PARTICIPATION the appearances in the media, reports from analysts regarding toManagers Employees pics relevant to the sector and internal matters concerning plans, programs and policies. 50%answer 57% answer External and internal coverage 102-46 External Internal Sectorial benchmark Management opinion Press analysis Contractual requirements Analysts´reports Employees´ opinion Key aspects After this analysis, weighing and revision, a total of 10 global material matters were defined, as is summarized in the enclosed table: Material matters (102-47) Reference information 1 Sustainability Strategy and Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability vision 2 Governance, Sustainability and Sustainable Development Goals Governance and compliance model 3 Ethical and anti-corruption framework. Ethical Channels Governance and compliance model 4 Data protection and cyber security risks Economic dimension / Information Security 5 Attracting and retaining talent. Training Social dimension /people 6 Non-discrimination, fair remuneration and the wage gap Social dimension /people Governance and compliance model 7 Human Rights Policy Social dimension /people 8 Health and Safety management Social dimension / Health and Safety 9 Circular Economy (raw materials and waste) Environmental dimension 10 Social action and local community Social dimension /social action 20 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Associations and organizations 102-13 Elawan participates in different industry associations in the countries it has a presence in, with the aim to contribute and help development, investment and the integration of renewable energy in the energy mix of each country, as well as other activities concerning the promotion of the sector. The most relevant are summarized next: The company's objective is to promote and implement the 10 uni• Spain: Asociación Empresarial Eólica (AEE) and Unión Españoversal principles on human rights, labour standards, the environla Fotovoltaica (UNEF) ment and the business strategy of companies, in addition to the • Poland: Polish Wind Energy Association (PWEA) and Wind Sustainable Development Goals. Energy Association (SEO) For this reason, in 2014 it joined the United Nations Global • Belgium: Edora Compact, meeting all the requirements necessary for the renewal of the commitment in 2019. • France: France Energie Eolienne (FEE) In 2019 we participated in various conferences to improve our • Romania: Asociatia Romana pentru Energie Eoliana (RWEA) contribution to these objectives, among others, participated in the • South Africa: South African Wind Energy Association (SAWEA) campaign #Alliesof theSGD promoted by the Spanish Network of • Turkey: Turkish Wind Energy Association (TWEA) the UN Global Compact on the reason of its fourth anniversary and the anniversary of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), presented a dossier of Good Practices in which it included the As stated in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, Elawan does not proSAFETY ALERTS Protocol . vide financial aid to Governments (415-1). Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 21 Governance and compliance model One of the missions of the Board of Directors is to promote corporate interests, representing the entity and its partners in the administration of assets, management of businesses and in setting the course for business administration. Communication The members of the Board are permanently informed regarding economic, social and environmental aspects. The Code of Ethics and Conduct Since 2014, the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which is approved by the Board of Directors Values Honesty, Humility, Tenacity and Work Global Compact Commitment to the 10 Universal Principles New Integrated Management Policy 22 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance Ownership structure and legal form The Board of Directors comprises four members and is, at 31 102-5 December 2019, made up of: The parent company structure of Elawan comprises: • 82.70% Acek Energías Renovables, S.L. • 17.30% Clear Wind Eólica, S.L. The subscribed capital stock at 31 December 2019 amounts to €80,880,000.00, represented by 1,617,600 shares of a par value of €50 each, all of them subscribed and paid up. The company is not listed on the Stock Market. President Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera Position held since 14/11/2007 Member Windwealth, S.L. Structure of governance. Mr. Dionisio Member Composition and committees Fernández Auray as natural person Mr. Francisco José Riberas Mera 102-18 representative. Position held since Position held since 14/11/2007 The governing bodies of the company are the General Share30/06/2008 holders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, the most senior body of governance, supervision, decision-making and control at Elawan, subject to no substantive limits other than those established in the legal regulations and the Articles of Association, and in particular the corporate purpose. The President at Elawan does not hold an executive position (102-23). One of the missions of the Board of Directors is to promote corporate interests, representing the entity and its partners in Elawan is and non-listed company, the members of the Board the administration of assets, management of businesses and in of Directors represent the total of shareholders (2 alternative setting the course for business administration. The members of options): the Board of Directors participate in the discussion and adop• and it has no representatives of other stakeholders. tion of economic, social and environmental decisions; and are responsible for approving the Code of Ethics. • and, therefore, there is no legal requirement to have representatives of other stakeholders in place. The Board of Directors reaches relevant decisions at its plenary sessions, and delegates, where relevant, the execution of these There were no changes in the Board of Directors with respect to decisions (102-19). the previous year. In addition, the Board of Directors may agree special powers of The Board of Directors does not have a Delegated Executive attorney to be vested in company employees to address speciCommittee with general decision-making powers, all decisions fic aspects of operations previously approved by this body. being adopted by the Board itself. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 23 Economic, environmental and social Processes of appointment and responsibilities 102-20 selection to the senior body of Elawan integrates its economic, social and environmental resgovernance. Conflict of interests ponsibilities in the Technical Department and the Financial and Powers for the appointment of Directors lie solely with the GeControl Department, the most senior managers of which refer neral Shareholders’ Meeting, which represents the interests of any decisions to be taken to the Board of Directors, as is sumall the company’s shareholders. marized below: The Articles of Association of Elawan set out the functioning • Environmental and social issues are coordinated and executed of the Board of Directors, the requirements and deadlines estaby the Technical Department, with the Chief Technical Officer blished for the General Meeting to be called, and the functions (CTO) holding responsibility and accountability before the of the Chairman. They likewise set out the grounds for incomBoard of Directors. patibility among members, subject at all times to the relevant • Economic issues are managed through the Financial and Conlegislation governing companies. The delegation of executive trol Department, with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) being powers by the Board of Directors is performed by means of reresponsible for accountability before the Board of Directors. solutions passed by the Board itself (102-24). In addition to the above, the most senior managers at these two Elawan is a non-listed company at which the members of the departments appear before the Board of Directors whenever it Board of Directors are the shareholders and owners of the comrequires them to. pany, and so no consideration is given to other aspects regarAmong other issues, the Board of Directors holds the final deciding diversity, minorities, etc (102-22). sion for the approval of the Business Plan, the annual budgets Shareholders may not exercise the voting rights corresponding and targets, the Investment and Financing Policy, the risk analyto their shares if they are subject to any case of conflict of insis and, in general, all policies affecting the company. terest as established in Article 190 of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, of 2 July 2010, approving the Consolidated Text of the Capital Companies Act (102-25). Processes for consultation On a supplementary basis, the possibility that different local and communications between cultures and customs could condition the understanding of certain subsections of the Code of Ethics and Conduct has been stakeholders and the senior body of detected (including conflicts of interest). governance 102-21 The managers of the different departments maintain a permanent and smooth communication with the CEO of the company. Functions and knowledge of the Any important concern is immediately conveyed by the manabody of governance regarding gers of the different areas to the CEO, who forms part of the Board of Directors (102-33). sustainability. Revision and approval The Technical Department, the Financial and Control Departof the Sustainability Report ment and the Human Resources Department at the central le102-26 AND 102-27 vel, and the Business Managers of the various countries where The functions of the Board of Directors include the approval of the company has a presence, exchange information with stakeand commitment to comply with the standards of the Code of holders (suppliers, governments, employees, society, etc.). The Ethics and Conduct, which include the Principles governing the different departments are responsible for taking especially relecompany, covering economic, environmental and social matters. vant matters to the Board of Directors. The members of the Board are permanently informed regarding Meetings are periodically held in which all the staff of Elawan economic, social and environmental aspects, through the and the CEO participate. These meeting are bidirectional, with various internal communication mechanisms, such as: the on one side the CEO, who informs all the staff on matters releperiodic meetings with the directors of the different areas, vant to the company´s management and state of affairs, while the generation and approval of the Sustainability Report and also receiving, from the staff, feedback on these issues and on the various actions and initiatives by Elawan, the Leading the other matters of interest. Change corporate Intranet and the other communications. Sustainability organization is coordinated by the sustainability team, which is part of the Corporate Communication and Sustainability Department (102-32). 24 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 The Report and the Materiality Analysis are drawn up biennial Similarly, in order to improve the performance of the wind farms, by this team, in collaboration with the various areas and predictive and preventive maintenance are conducted, with correcdepartments involved at Elawan. After its development, it tive maintenance being applied only where necessary. undergoes a supervision and review process on the part of the All these actions and the possible risks that may emerge are conCommunication Department, before ultimately being approved tinuously analyzed by Elawan’s management and teams, serving by the CEO. to detect risks and to implement the required corrective measures Similarly, in order to guarantee the reliability of the information, in a swift and agile manner. the Report is externally verified by an independent body. Where necessary, the CEO and the various company departments provide the Board of Directors with periodic information. The Board of Directors has responsibility for approving the development of Functions of the senior body of new installations and the measures established to mitigate any governance in risk management kind of risk. 102-29, 102-30 AND 102-31 At Elawan, in order to develop and execute new projects, a dePerformance. Nature and number of tailed study is performed, evaluating and analyzing the potential risks in each project, this study is conducted by the different comissues raised at the Board of Directors pany departments, prior to the adoption of any decision. The performance of the Board of Directors is not evaluated, as the At the initial project analysis and definition stage, information is members are, through their shares, the owners the company, and compiled regarding the energy policies in the company, its exrepresent all the shareholders (102-28). pected profitability, regulatory stability and local government. At the General Shareholders’ Meeting, corporate resolutions are Meanwhile, research and analysis are conducted into climate passed by a majority of the votes validly cast, provided that they conditions (wind), environmental, landscaping, urban planning and represent at least a third of the votes corresponding to the shares archaeological restrictions, and property administration. into which the capital stock is divided, with blank ballots being Once these aspects have been analyzed, a decision is taken wheexcluded from the calculation. There have been no changes to the ther to suspend the project or move on to the next stage. members or organizational practices. The process continues with all aspects prior to the implementaIn accordance with the applicable legislation, the Board of Direction and financing of the projects. A review is first done of aspects tors meets during the first quarter to draw up the annual accounts connected with the leasing of the space required for its implemenfor the previous financial year. tation, along with the processing for the issuing of all permits, liIn addition to this meeting, the body meets in accordance with censes and authorizations that will allow for the construction and operational, business and project approval needs. In specific tercommissioning of the wind farm and its power output infrastrucms, during 2019 it met on 57 occasions, addressing more than ture. 40 different subjects connected with the projects that Elawan At this stage the Environmental Impact Study is performed in orendorses, constructs and operates in various countries around der to receive the approval of local authorities and communities, the world through its direct and indirect stake in local companies. and to comply with the environmental requirements established in The main types of subjects dealt with are shown in the enclosed said statements. The Feasibility Plan and the approval of investtable (102-34): ment and financing are likewise included. Subsequently, the company hired to construct the facility, which Corporate includes civil and electrical engineering, electromechanical assemAnnual Investments operations General bly, and the commissioning, is selected and assigned. Accounts and financing and aspects management Construction is performed by means of EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contracts, using specialist firms that 4 28 18 7 comply with the established requirements and the applicable legal standards, up to commissioning of the facility. Lastly, during the useful life of the wind farm, the relevant operaRemuneration of the Board of tion and maintenance tasks are performed. The facilities are moniDirectors tored in real time, which signifies that any incident is detected and 102-35, 102-36 AND 102-37 managed immediately. The members of the Board of Directors do not receive any remuneration for their work as Directors. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 25 Integrated Management Policy In 2017, Elawan carried out an exhaustive revision of our management systems, with the aim of adapting them to the new international standards and customizing their scope to the current necessities of the company. In this framework we developed, approved and implemented a new ¨Integrated Management Policy¨, which is binding and represents the base document of the system. This new policy has been disclosed to internal staff as well as to stakeholders. 26 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance model Elawan, via our parent company, features a global corporate culUnited Nations Global Compact ture that has kept the same values since our beginning, but which have been adapted to the local necessities of each country, the cuSince 2014, Elawan has signed and participated with the Global rrent market conditions and our stakeholder demands. In addition, Compact through our parent company. However, after changing we have as our objective: our company name and after the Global Compact´s change in strategy concerning its partners and signatories, Elawan becomes a Sustainability has become another key element, given that sustaidirect partner in 2018, renewing our commitment to promote and nable growth is considered to be the best way to meet our Objecimplement the 10 universally accepted principles for another year. tives and stakeholders´ expectations. Complaints and ongoing disputes Code of Ethics and Conduct Regarding other procedures, ongoing litigations and sanctions ini102-16, 102-17 AND 205-1 tiated against the company, there have not been any significant cases that have had a relevant economic impact on the Company Since 2014, the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which is approved by regarding unfair competition, monopolistic practices and against the Board of Directors, has been a reference at Elawan for all the free competition (206-1), complaints based on breaches of cusdecisions made by our employees. tomer privacy and losses of customer data (418-1), violations related to marketing communications (417-3) nor violations of In addition, we have the following reference guides, which expand the laws and regulation in the social, environmental and economic on the content of the Code, concerning anticorruption and harassareas (307-1). ment: • Harassment prevention guide and action protocol: This guide incorporates the prevention and reporting measures for possible harassment situations, including the minimum facets that must be respected in order to be able to act honestly and responsibly in all the countries we operate in. • Behavioral Guide in Response to the Offering of Incentives, Gifts and Invitations: The goal of this guide is to abide by all the laws and rules regulating bribes and corruption in the countries we operate in, deeming these as illegal worldwide. In 2014, all Elawan employees were trained on the Code of Ethics. Since then, new employees are trained on the subject which includes values, ethical, human rights and anti-corruption aspects. In 2019, 16 hours of online training on the Code of Ethics and Human Rights were conducted with 8 new employees (205-1 and 412-2). The Code of Ethics summarizes the guidelines to be followed in the event that any employee or collaborator wishes to make any query or complaint via the available reporting channels: by email, telephone or in writing (complaint form). All issues are analyzed, managed and settled by the Ethics Committee. The Ethics Committee is an internal consulting body, responsible for advocating the company´s values and conduct, as well as for the monitoring, communication, disclosure and oversight of the Code of Ethics, for the processing and support regarding the settlement of doubts and the response to possible incidents or complaints that may arise, through the reporting channels. In 2019 the Ethics Committee did not receive any complaints regarding corruption (205-2 and 205-3), nor complaints from third parties, nor any complaints concerning work practices, discrimination (406-1), or human rights. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 27 Economic dimension Elawan continues to grow through the search for new opportunities for power generation renewable throughout the world, developing projects in Europe, America, Africa and Asia. Growth 3 new renewable energy projects in 2019 Belgium, Spain and Poland Expenditure on local suppliers 24 million euros Economic Value Created (EVC) 88.5 € million Distributed economic value (DEV) 633.4 € million Cultural Change & Digital WorkPlace 2019-2021 Control Center for Renewable Energies (CCER) Production monitoring and measurement energy in all the renewable energy projects 28 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Global context 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 The mitigation of climate change is a key challenge of the 21st Renewable energy century. Its achievement is partly subordinated to an adequate energy transition, where efficiency and the increase of renewable The total installed capacity of renewable energies reached 2,563.8 energies play a fundamental role. GW in 2019, with hydroelectric energy being the dominant source Although a reduction in global CO2 emissions is expected in the with 1,310.9 GW, followed by wind with 622.7 GW and solar with long term, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that 583.5 GW (Source: IRENA). world energy demand will be increasing at a rate of 30% by 2040, The world's renewable sector installed 176 GW of new capacity with an estimated annual growth of 3.4% in the global economy in 2019, with 91.7 GW of photovoltaic (IRENA) and 60.4 GW of and a population increase from 7.4 billion to over 9 billion by wind (GWEC), the second-best year ever and a 19% year-on-year 2040, thus complicating compliance with the objectives of the growth. Paris Agreement. In 2019 the main driver of this growth was market-based mechaIn addition, the messages from the recent COP 25 (Madrid) are not nisms, with China, the US and Europe being the main markets. For very favourable. The latest report from the United Nations' Interexample, wind capacity auctioned exceeded 40 GW worldwide, governmental Panel on Climate Change shows the enormous charepresenting two-thirds of total new capacity and doubling auctiollenge ahead, which requires very urgent action by governments, ned capacity compared to 2018. companies and civil society. In terms of investments in renewable energy capacity in 2019, The final wording of the COP 25 stresses the urgent need to keep wind (onshore and offshore) led the way with $138.2 billion glothe global average temperature increase to well below 2°C above bally, up 6% and solar was very close with $131.1 billion, down pre-industrial levels and speaks of efforts to limit the tempe3% (Source: Bloomberg NEF). rature increase to 1.5°C . However, the agreement still does not In terms of cumulative wind power installations; China, the US, clarify how countries will do this, as they are only encouraged to Germany, India and Spain remain the main markets, collectively present their renewed upward commitments in 2020, before the accounting for 73% of the total 651 GW of wind power capaciGlasgow meeting. ty worldwide. Turning to offshore wind power, 2019 was a record year for the sector with an impressive 6.1 GW installation and now represents 10% of total wind power installations worldwide. Both wind and solar energy have grown significantly at the same rate as their costs have fallen, being competitive with conventional sources. Improvements in storage technologies are noteworthy, making distribution easier, with the US leading the way in solar energy storage. In addition, automation is reducing the time and cost of solar and wind energy production and operation. The growth forecast for 2020 was expected to be the best in history. However, the crisis resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, as disruptions in global supply chains and national shutdown regulations are hampering the wind sector, as are most other industries, although it is too early to anticipate its impact. Elawan is in a prominent position within the renewable sector, with operational renewable energy projects in 13 countries with 712 MW in operation, collaborating in a new renewable and sustainable energy model, while generating wind power. By doing so, we contribute to the development of the communities where we operate by improving and reducing pollution and providing access to electricity. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 29 Business growth Elawan continues to grow by seeking out new opportunities for renewable energy generation worldwide, developing projects in Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia. Projects completed in 2019 Hannut Wind Farm: Elawan Energy has built a new wind farm in Hannut, in the Liege area (Belgium), with an output of 21.6MW, distributed in 9 wind turbines. The investment is estimated around 32 million euros. In addition, the sale of the energy for the next 15 years and the sale of the green certificates for the next 10 years have been agreed. Torrijos Solar plant: The project is located in the municipalities of Novés and Torrijos (province of Toledo), the power of which was awarded following the publication of Order ETU/615/2017 by auction, in accordance with the Resolution published in the Official State Gazette (BOE) on 13 October 2017. With a 35 MWp capacity and an estimated investment of 25 million euros, it has been put into operation in December 2019. It is the first solar plant built by Elawan Energy. Beaumont Extension Wind Farm (Belgium): The project for the Beaumont extension features a V110 2.0Mw turbine. The construction of the extension was completed in 2019. 30 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Solar Plant in Rzepin, Poland: The plant, located in the municipality of Rzepin (central Poland), has a capacity of 0.5MWp. The estimated investment is around 350,000 euros, having started operations in December 2019. Projects under construction Copperton Wind Farm: Elawan Energy signed a 20-year power purchase agreement (PPA) for the construction and operation of the Copperton Wind Farm in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa, from the Round 4 competition of the South African Energy Plan. Elawan Energy is the main shareholder in this venture along with other local partners. The wind farm will have a capacity of 102 MW, with an investment of more than 145 million euros and an estimated annual production of 360 GWh. Construction work is currently underway, and it is expected to be operational by the end of 2020. Projects scheduled for 2020 Pedra do Reino V Wind Farm (Brazil): This project, won by auction, is located in the State of Bahia, in the region of Sobradinho. It Wind projects is an extension of other wind farms that we developed at the time and will have 4 turbines of 4Mw. Its commissioning is scheduled Humilpan Wind Farm in San Pedro (Mexico): This 30Mw for June 2021. wind farm project is in the State of Querétaro. It will consist of 15 Adares wind farm extension (Turkey): This project is annexed wind turbines and is exclusively owned by Elawan Energy. Its comto the Adares wind farm and is expected to have 10.5 Mw. It is missioning is scheduled for the second quarter of 2021. scheduled to come into operation in December 2020. Salazine/Ciney Wind Farm (Belgium): This wind farm will consist of 5 turbines with an output of 11Mw. Photovoltaic projects Los Campanarios Solar Plant (Spain): This project located in Bonete (Albacete) will have five solar plants of 50MWp each and a total of 250MW. It is expected to be commissioned in the first quarter of 2021. Gournay Solar Plant, (France): The 5MWp Gournay Solar Plant project is in the department of Indre, central France. It is Elawan Energy's first power plant in France since entering the French market in 2018. The investment will be around 3.5 million euros. It is scheduled to come into operation in the first quarter of 2021. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 31 Balance 201-1 AND 201-4 Elawan works to pursue its international expansion by creating value in the communities where it is present. This is made possible by a positive balance sheet and adequate funding. 2019 was a very important year for Elawan with 657 MW of wind power in operation, a turnover of around 87 million euros, an EBIDTA of 60 million euros and a profit before tax of 14 million euros. Moreover, the Group has 10 GW in advanced development and promotion, in countries such as Spain, Belgium, France, Colombia, Argentina, Poland, Brazil, the United States, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, Russia and Romania. In addition, during 2019 the construction of new projects in Belgium and Spain was completed, adding 59.8 MW to the Group's operating portfolio. Similarly, the company continued or began the construction of 148 MW in South Africa, Brazil, Mexico and Poland. In 2019, as part of the Group's corporate strategy, operations were completed for the sale of projects in the promotion phase in Brazil and Argentina, and it was estimated that the earn out conditions associated with the contract signed in 2017 for the sale of the South African businesses were met, generating significant capital gains. The main figures are summarised below: The Economic Value Created (EVC) amounts to a total of €88,541 thousand, as distributed below: Likewise, at the end of the fiscal year, the result before taxes was 13,737 thousand Economic Value Created Thousand of Euros euros, with a net financial debt of 405,547 2017 2018 2019 thousand euros and a net equity of 92,447 Reveunes 171,014 93,038 86,849 thousand euros. Our capitalization is 23%. Financial Incomes 2,331 2,964 1,692 Elawan Energy received financial support Economic Value Created 173,345 96,002 88,541 in previous years in the form of capital grants amounting to EUR 94 million (USD The Economic Value Distributed (EVD) is €633,412 thousand. 105 million). These grants relate to the construction of wind farms in the USA. No Economic Value Distributed Thousand of Euros additional grants were received in 2019. 2017 2018 2019 Additionally, the localities where Elawan CAPEX 493,564 535,977 571,128 is present received a total of EUR 7,443 Staff retribution 5,439 5,113 4,844 Payment to providers of capital 64,707 28,824 27,295 thousand in taxes, levies and fees, which Operational Cost 30,089 18,718 22,466 contribute to improving the quality of life Payment to Public Administration 16,884 14,557 7,443 and services of the area's inhabitants. The Investment in benefit of the community (*) 236 breakdown is as follows: Economic Value Distributed 610,682 603,190 633,412 The Economic Value Retained (EVR) in 2019 amounted to €17,405 thousand.. Economic Value Retained Thousand of Euros (*) The investments in the community include the 2017 2018 2019 works started on the Social Project in Brazil in 2019 Economic Value Retained 37,721 737,118 17,405* for a total budget of BRL 1 M (222 thousand euros). *The reduction with respect to 2018 is due to the fact that there has been no impairment in 2019. 32 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Levies and duties: Local Tax Country Local Tax (Thousand of Euros) 2017 2018 2019 Spain 10,646 7,387 1,302 Brazil 4,039 4,606 2,830 USA and Puerto Rico 1,531 2,077 2,847 Poland 479 89 179 Mexico 7 8 4 Romania 4 4 8 Belgium 18 386 227 South Africa 160 0 Turkey 0 0 46 ELAWAN 16,884 14,557 7,443 With regard to the remaining accounting liabilities, the companies that make up the Elawan Group are, mostly, obliged to perform anFinancing and human rights nual audit reports on their individual financial statements due to the total volume of their assets, turnover and average number of In fiscal year 2019, two new financings were closed for the photoemployees. voltaic solar plant in Torrijos (Spain) and the refinancing of the wind farm in Beaumont (Belgium) with an increase in power. There are no exceptions to these reports. After approval by the relevant body, these reports are submitted in due form and time In both cases, compliance with the Equator Principles and the subto the Commercial Registry for each of its accounting years, the mission of an independent report verifying this compliance are relegalisation of official books and the deposit of annual accounts. quired (412-1 and 412-3). Moreover, the Group companies are up to date with their payments Likewise, Elawan is a signing party to the Global Compact, acquito the General Treasury of Social Security and their tax obligations. ring the commitment to comply with the 10 Universal Principles. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 33 Risks and opportunities 201-1 AND 201-4 Main effects, risks and opportunities 102-15 In developing its activity, the company is subject to different risks inherent to the different countries it operates in and to the wind Subsequent risks energy sector. The year 2020 began with a huge risk arising from the Therefore, prior to developing any project, a comprehensive analyglobal health crisis caused by the outbreak of the Covid-19 sis is done, and various mechanisms are established to minimize pandemic. these risks as far as possible. We are witnessing an unprecedented expansion of the panIf any unforeseen circumstances arise, the regional managers and/ demic, bringing to a halt the economy and the evolution of or the area directors immediately inform the CEO, these risks are business in most sectors and directly affecting consumption analyzed and the appropriate measures are taken. The CEO is resand employment. ponsible for informing the Board of Directors. The main risks identified are outlined below: The massive spreading of the pandemic and the lack of information on its duration, make us foresee a more complicated macroeconomic scenario. Operational risks Risks derived from the activity Risks that derive from our activity may be of two types: • Internal: derived from misuse of technology, supply failures Reputational risk and outages, inadequate management, etc. Reputational risks are those derived from potential conduct in vio• External: inadequate renewable energy projects performanlation of the guidelines established in the policies and codes regarce. These risks depend on the climate of the area as well as ding human rights, ethics and anti-corruption, among others. on the quality of the wind, the hours of solar radiation, etc., aspects that cannot be influenced. MITIGATION MITIGATION • Policies and initiatives such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct, • The technological advance of the new turbines and the inthe Behavioral Guide in Response to the Offering of Incentives, crease in their individual power allows us to generate more Gifts and Invitations, the Harassment Prevention Guide and the energy with less turbines and, as a result, with less impact. Integrated Environment, Quality and Health and Safety Policy. • The reduction of costs related to renewable energies increa• Compliance with the Equator Principles and the environment ses their competitiveness. impact statements • The increasingly accurate viability analysis of the projects • Consultation channels and complaint mechanisms and the best orientation of the plants. • Being capable of installation in remote areas. Opportunities Opportunities The monitoring and implementation of the requirements Innovation and technological advances mean that derived from the ethical code, the environmental renewable energy installations are increasingly better impact studies and the Equator Principles contribute to adapted to any type of environment and weather, with increasing and improving relations with the authorities fewer failures and better remote controlling, improving and local community. their efficiency and profitability. 34 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Business risks Financial risk Risks derived from investments in Market risk new projects Risks associated with exposure of results and assets to a possiDerived from an inadequate financing, low performance of the ble loss caused by variations in the fair value or future cash flows renewable energy projects compared to what expected or chanof financial instruments, resulting from changes in market prices, ges in energy rates. interest rates or exchange rates. MITIGATION Credit risks • Analysis of the environment and the risks arising from each These risks stem from of the possibility of not being able to resite, such as: the political stability of the country, energy pocover financial assets in conformity with the established amount licies, climate and wind conditions, availability of land and and term. proximity of evacuation lines, among others. • The availability of favourable financing in the regions where Elawan would like to develop. Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise when liquid funds are not available or acces• Definition of preventive measures against potential risks. sible in a sufficient amount and at appropriate cost in order to • Insurance policies. meet payment obligations at all times.. MITIGATION Opportunities • Long-term energy price purchase agreements with fixed priTo provide a global and complete information allow us to anticipate from potentials risk identified for each project, ces and agreed price updates. avoiding possible contingencies. • Hedging derivatives associated with debt and financing in foreign currency when deemed appropriate. • Operating in markets that offer a stable and safe regulatory Regulatory risks framework. Other risks faced by companies include those associated with • Analyses of cash flows generated by projects and potential regulatory changes, such as, for example: the remuneration of repurchase operations of assets. gulated activities, the required supply conditions, environmental • Guarantee liquidity needs at all times through loans and credit and taxation regulations, etc. lines maintained with the parent company. MITIGATION • Search for locations in regions where there is a high demand for energy. • Development in stable countries, in which significant regulaOpportunities tory stability is expected. Financial risk prevention mechanisms allow us to have better control over growth and investments, • Define the long-term supply conditions. diversifying in other countries and compensating for any risks or incidents that may arise, for profitable and sustainable growth. Opportunities On one hand, the unstoppable surge in renewable energies compared to conventional energies and the global commitments concerning CO2 mark a growing global trend in this sector. On the other hand, both the companies that diversify from different markets and improvements in the financing and the system for auctions, in which the medium/ long-term sales price is regulated, are an opportunity to ensure the profitability of the projects. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 35 Risks: confidentiality and • The Environmental Management System helps to establish objectives for improvement, to minimize impacts derived from our privacy activity, and to include the principle of precaution (102-11). • Definition of a manual for the environmental control of the Cyberthreats continue to grow, online fraud keeps evolving and is building sites, not only through legal compliance but also by responsible for millions in losses in companies around the world. increasing environmental controls and requirements. The rapid proliferation of intelligent devices, equipment hijacking by hackers, the impersonation fraud and the connectivity, Opportunities in addition to the lack of global security standards, increases the Renewable energy helps to mitigate the effects vulnerability of these devices. of climate change and to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and contribute to an emissionMITIGATION neutral future. • Periodic scan through systems to identify external and internal vulnerabilities and correction in its function of the criticality level • Diagnostic on information security and its risks (ISO 27001). Health and safety risks • Communication and awareness campaigns alerting and raising awareness of risk and threats The establishment of the company in countries as diverse as the ones we are in, their idiosyncrasies, and the legislative differenOpportunities ces in health and safety matters mean that we must create suffiThrough the diagnostic and the established cient mechanisms for their control. control and tracking mechanisms, numerous Health and safety is a primary objective for the company, althouopportunities for improvement have been detected, which are gradually being implemented and gh the probability of accident is low in the sector are extreme reinforced through training and communication, safety measures. thus mitigating these economic, personal and reputational risks. MITIGATION • Integrated Management System and Policy in accordance with international standards ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 45001 for the promotion, development, operation and sale of renewable energy production facilities at an international level. Environmental risk • Unique facility access control procedure. • Health and Safety culture based at the goal “0” accidents and injuries learned. The actual environment clearly shows us the risks associated with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues as the • Training and a quality awareness adjusted and periodic. Climate Change, water scarcity and Human Rights, are increasin• Internal and external communication though clear and defigly relevant. Therefore, it’s necessary to incorporate them into the ned channels. company’s decision making, business strategy, performance and • Proactive monitoring and analysis of monitoring indicators management. and control points (KPI). Good management of these aspects minimizes risk to reputation, • Definition of a health and safety manual for building sites with regulation, labour, access to capital and credit, among others. the establishment of controls beyond those legally determined, with follow-up through periodic reports, continuous traiMITIGATION ning, etc. • The innovation and availability of turbines with higher output allow for the reduction of the number of towers and, as a reOpportunities sult, their impact. The preventive measures defined and implemented • Environmental impact and birdlife protection studies serve to increase safety and minimise accidents, improving the control and manage potential environmental risks. environment and working conditions. The absence of • Advances in solar energy technology and cost reduction, conaccidents is key to improving the reputation and image of the company. tribute to its development. Improvement of participation and consultation processes through the implementation of ISO 45001:2018. 36 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Information Security Business process support Information Security Systems are a fundamental element for the execution of business Currently, cyberthreats continue to grow in ingenuity and frequenprocesses and for the implementation of our strategy, even more cy, online fraud keeps evolving due to new social engineering techso in this innovative and collaborative environment that relies on niques and these are responsible for millions in losses in companies emerging technologies in an increasingly turbulent business enviaround the world. ronment. Systems and IT organization are essential to harness the The fast proliferation of smart devices and the connectivity given most powerful wave of digital transformation. through the internet of things (IoT), paired with the lack of global Elawan's IT department faces a challenging balance between the security standards makes that many of these devices have signineed for digital innovation on a company-wide scale and the need ficant vulnerabilities which leaves personal and business informato maintain and operate with today's most advanced systems and tion exposed. processes in order to maintain operational excellence. 2019 has Proof of this trend is the increase in the hijacking of business combeen a very challenging year in this regard: The Group's centraliputing equipment by hackers, in order to ¨mine¨ cryptocurrencies, sed ERP SAP system, infrastructure services and communications by using modern malware designed to go after business networks, were both maintained and improved, with a focus on business suwhich can cause these to collapse or even damage the hardware. pport, efficiency, and profitability. At the same time, transformaAttempts at fraud through impersonation (phishing) are also intion projects have been launched to align our business and syscreasing, which makes it even more important to adjust informatems strategy and move forward on the journey towards digital tion security policies and devices to protect both the assets and transformation. people´s security. The IT Department, in collaboration with the Communication and Therefore, we establish the necessary mechanisms to safeguard Sustainability Department, has supported all the companies in the privacy of information and the protection of customer and suthe Group. At the same time, and in a coordinated manner, it has pplier data, and to manage and treat documentation in accordance worked on the recent challenges the organization faces, which with its level of relevance. In order to strengthen security, informainclude creating new IT capabilities to increase productivity and tion security procedures are periodically revised, and the security efficiency. The department has been actively involved in the worsystems are continuously tested to ensure their rigorousness. kplace through the Digital Workplace initiative, a cultural change that embraces technology to improve the way employees work In the year 2019, the following steps, among others, have been and interact with customers and suppliers, enhancing experience, taken to improve security policies: satisfaction and productivity through collaboration. • Periodic system scan to detect external and internal vulneraIn some cases, in order to manage the scalability of IT capacities, bilities and their correction according to the level of criticality. it may be necessary to collaborate with third parties, which are • Diagnosis of the information security and its risks based on selected through an impartial process of publishing specifications, the ISO 27000 standard. receiving and evaluating bids and making the final selection based To reinforce awareness and training of the group´s employees’, on the quality criteria for business support and system efficiency. campaigns and training sessions were held. At Elawan, we are convinced that information has become a straAfterwards, training sessions were held to learn about preventegic asset for the company and ensuring its security is one of the tion and protection techniques, both in corporate offices as in the Group's greatest challenges. plants, to mitigate the risk to people and assets that this new type of crime brings. We have continued to support and improve the relevant measures in order to adapt to the new European data privacy regulations (GDPR) that came into force in May 2018. This implies a transversal level of supervision on the protection of person data information. Furthermore, new versions of anti-ransomware software were installed and are analysed through pilot tests, new tools for cataloguing and protection of corporate information (IRM – Information Rights Management) and for the protection of smartphones and tablets (MDM – Mobile Device Management). Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 37 Cultural Change Digital WorkPlace 2019-2021 “Digital WorkPlace” project began in 2019 aiming to embrace Microsoft technology and provide employees with the Office 365 tools to continue advancing in the company’s digital transformaCollaboration Cloud Work tion. Foster Anytime, Collaboration It is a process that demands an important management of the culCulture Anywhere tural change of the whole company, in a collaborative environment that allows to approach successfully this challenge of incorporating the new digital technologies, but another piece of an ambitious project throughout the company in these 3 areas: • Digital Competences: Increase digital competences, knowledge and skills to adapt to a constantly changing market and environment. • Digital Workplace: define how new technologies may improve the way of working in all aspects. • Digital Experience: boost digital agility in all work aspects. Efficiency Boost Personal The main change derives from the integration of Outlook, OneDrive Engagement Performance and SharePoint tools in the Office 365 platform. The project is aligIncrease ned with SDG 9 and our innovation and digitalization strategies. Employee Engagement It’s been implemented based in two approaches: Innovation On the one hand, transfer all the information to the new platforms, Company Intelligence where: Powered • IT department migrated all the information hosted in the document manager into the new SharePoint platform, updating admin profiles and adapting the access to each group to the “Digital Champion” campaign new available profile options. The implementation of the project began in March with the “Digital • Each user migrated its personal information into OneDrive. Champion” campaign. This aims to identify collaborators in each area and country where the company is present; based on an active, open, constructive, and motivated profile of employees who do On the other hand, all employees were encouraged and trained to not fear technology. use this new technology. To this effect, a thorough implementation Once identified these profiles, it was formed a group of 27 Digiand training program was developed, including a number of initiatital Champions spread with a total of 27 participants, distributed ves and training materials, enabling to conclude with great success among Spain (20), Brazil (1), Mexico (1), USA (4) and Poland (1). the first stage of the DWP adoption project. The main milestones This group became a very active asset of the project, playing a key are shown below: role of functional support and assistance to final users during the transition process. During their apprenticeship, the group received specific training to provide them with the necessary knowledge and tools to enable the identification and problem resolution, feedback compilation on the identification of the main resistance to change. With the support of these team of Champions, the following training stage in the usage of DWP tools began. To this effect, a number of activities were developed, to mention some: 38 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Workshops in offices A series of workshops were designed and developed in headquarters during the 23rd, 24th and 25th of April. The day was aimed at Elawan employees, among others, to raise awareness of the main advantages of the Digital Workplace and teach them how to use its tools. All of them consisted in an introductory speech explaining the corporate history in the adoption and technological evolution processes and the development of playful dynamics on DWP. Afterwards, attendees took part in a tour with five experiences based in the five pillars of the project: Collaboration, Innovation, Efficiency, Commitment and Cloud. • organized in groups by departments they • they made suggestions of the features • they took selfies and learnt about the discovered the voice-interaction techthey would like to find with regard to the new features of the mobile App at the nology and the different concepts and new digital tools at the Efficiency stand; Commitment stand. features of the DWP at the Innovation • they experienced the coedition at the • and they addressed the new Intranet and stand; Collaboration stand; the vision “Work anytime, anywhere” at the Cloud stand. Training • On site: Online live training for multiple groups of employees. Digital Workplace Hub This training consisted of a brief description of the tools an its The Digital Workplace Hub is a SharePoint site that gathers all the advantages, as well as a detailed description of its usage and information with regard to the DWP project. There all employees a wide range of possibilities they offer. can access to DWP training materials, FAQs documents, webinars, • Online training webinars: formación online con conexión training courses, tips, calendars, the Digital Champions network, en directo para múltiples grupos de empleados. La formación feedback, and so on. consta de una breve descripción de las herramientas y sus ventajas, así como una descripción detallada de su uso y las numerosas posibilidades que ofrece. Others • Referential training guides for Outlook, OneDrive and • Videos Videos presenting and summarizing DWP project. . SharePoint: these materials include manuals that cover all • Videos – training pills: short videos in the shape of case the usage instructions and the different functionalities of Office studies to explain specific aspects and advantages of the 365 tools in a very simple and graphic way. new tools • Frequent asked questions (FAQs): documents that gather the most common queries about these tools, general tips regarding their usage and questions that other colleagues have made which are every bit as useful. • Tips for the tools: Tips to get the most out of the Outlook, OneDrive, SharePoint and Office Suite tools. • Satisfaction Survey: Surveys to know the opinion off the employees about the materials and actions performed. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 39 Our product Maintenance Due to the specific characteristics of our product, energy, there aren´t any chemical or environmental risks, nor does it apply the laand management belling regulations, since it is not used directly by any customer, the energy produced is directly discharged into the electricity distribuIn our business, the aero generators in the wind farms are in motion network, which informs the final consumer (417-1 and 417-2). vement most of the time operating in an efficiency way to produce Likewise, there have been no registered incidents concerning Healand sell energy. However, there are pauses at certain times. These th & Safety because of impacts from our products and services may be scheduled on non-scheduled. (416-2), nor any resulting from the sale or trade of prohibited or Scheduled stops are established to perform preventive and predicdisputed products, nor for legal violations related to the supply and tive maintenance at the wind farms. The goal is to extend the geuse of the products, in social or economic matters (419-1). nerator´s useful life and to avoid non-programmed stops/incidents. For this reason, two types of maintenance are carried out: Control Center for Preventive maintenance Renewable Energies For the monitoring and measuring of the energy production, as These are activities planned according to the intervals defined by well as the incidences and stops that may arise in all our wind the manufacturer of the turbine. This type of maintenance is profarms, the company has a Control Center for Renewable Energies grammed annually and aims to have the least impact possible. For (CCER) in place, the purpose of which is to optimize the operation this reason, preventive maintenance is done at times when there of the wind farms. is less wind and when there is as little impact on production as possible. Via the CCER, it is available in real-time information about the production of the aero generators, electrical lines and substations. This allows for the constant supervision and control of each element, 24 Predictive maintenance hours/ 365 days a year. It also serves to analyze their performance continuously, and to act immediately in case of any incident. This is the most complex type of maintenance. Its objective is the early diagnosis of possible failures or breakdowns, and so increase Aero generator efficiency is a key element for the generation of the uptime of the aero generators. energy and the profitability of the company, which is why it is made sure that stoppage time is reduced as much as possible. For Corrective maintenance is done for non-scheduled stops. These this reason, each time an incident occurs, it is measured and regisoccur when a malfunction is detected, their duration depends on the tered, and the mechanisms necessary for its solution and closing severity of the malfunction. are activated. Quality is a key element, and for this reason, all our wind farms This allows for the comprehensive monitoring of all aero generahave an Integrated Management System implemented, which intors and provides information regarding their performance, in order cludes the quality system certified under the ISO 9001 standard. to be able to take immediate action if necessary. In these cases, the operation is handled locally by the O&M supervision team and remotely through an automatic remote system (CCER). If through these measures it is not possible to put the aero generator back into operation, the maintenance team is informed so that they can intervene ¨in situ¨ at the wind farm for its revision and start up. The response time varies in these cases. A ¨checkpoint¨ is activated and, if the stop occurs outside working hours, the travel costs for the maintenance team are analyzed as well as the costs that result from the plant’s production losses for the duration of the stop, to finally choose the most cost-effective solution. The correct incident management at the farms is part of the annual objectives of the CCER experts at Elawan and their variable remuneration. According to the information and data compiled in 2019, average stoppage time was 8 minutes, which illustrates the high efficiency of its management. 40 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Supply chain 102-9 Elawan has defined the PS-02 Purchasing and Supplier EvaSimilarly, Elawan defines a series of criteria for the identification of luation Key Process, through which it guarantees the adequate hazards and control of risks associated with its contractors within management of the supply chain in collaboration with all the dethe process of procurement, selection and approval of these. The partments of the company. This procedure establishes the requirecontrols for this process are set out below: ments for approval, evaluation and re-evaluation of the company's • Establishment of specific contractual clauses for the Environsuppliers. In addition, a clause of conformity and compliance with ment and OSH in addition to legal compliance. the Elawan Code of Ethics and Conduct is included in all contracts. • Procedure for the Coordination of Business Activities. Purchasing requirements are covered through suppliers already included as historical suppliers (those already registered on SAP). • MA and OSH management manual on site. Within this group we may find sole suppliers, which include su• Visitor Information sheet. ppliers determined by the limitations/requirements of each project • Plan de emergencia ambiental y de gestión de incidentes. or by equipment manufacturers/maintainers, historical suppliers • Recurring inspections. and non-approved suppliers. • Establishment of evaluation criteria for suppliers whose opeIn the event of requiring a non-approved supplier, we investigate it through internal and/or external references and request at least rations or activities might have an impact on their workers or 3 quotations, selecting the one that best meets the requirements. interested parties. Due to the type of services and the companies that are outsourced, no risks related to child labour, threats to freedom of associaSupplier Evaluation tion or forced labour have been identified in 2019 (407-1, 408-1 and 409-1). In order to evaluate the suppliers, two levels are established:: Critical suppliers: those responsible for the supply of equipment (wind turbines), maintenance and exploitation of the facilities, Local purchases construction of the renewable energy projects and any that exceed 30,000 euros of annual turnover. The billing table will be reElawan encourages hiring and purchasing from local suppliers, in orviewed annually in order to include possible variations of suppliers der to create value in the places we operate in. This is reinforced in in the Critical Supplier Control Sheet . For monitoring and control countries where the local government fosters this behavior throupurposes, compliance with the KPI's and the requirements of the gh incentives. Most of the budget for outsourcing and suppliers for contract will be verified. 2019 corresponds to local companies, that is to say, companies from the same country as where the installations are located. In 2019 the expenditure for local suppliers totaled €24,096 thouNon-critical suppliers: Including the rest of the suppliers. The sand (100% local). Its distribution by country is summarized in the associated controls will be coordinated by each department manafollowing table (in thousand euro) (204-1). ger through the NC (non-conformities) originating from non-compliance with product characteristics or non-compliance with services. If this occurs, the RCMASST will be informed so that they can Local purchases (Thousand of Euros) be registered, in accordance with the established procedure. 2017 2018 2019 At the end of the year, these non-conformities are referred to the Brazil 12,966 5,220 6,741 heads of the departments concerned where they are analysed, Spain 3,648 4,083 7,217 and their continuity is assessed. In the event that there are no NC, Poland 336 314 949 the supplier will automatically remain as “approved”. Mexico 387 239 303 Those suppliers whose situation is considered to be critical or Romania 31 31 60 those that do not continue to operate, will be informed by Elawan Belgium 785 811 1,219 via email to the commercial contact for that account. Turkey 42 54 25 France 45 All the critical suppliers evaluated were approved during 2019, Russia 1 with no relevant incidents or non-compliance with the predefined South Africa 2,708 218 303 criteria. USA 9,697 7,768 7,233 In accordance with the ISO 45001 standard, additional criteria and Total 30,599 18,738 24,096 controls were established for the environment and safety of suppliers. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 41 Social dimension Having excellent trained and motivated professionals is a key aspect of growing as a competitive, solid and sustainable company. All this integrating Health and Safety in all levels of the company, with the true preventive culture in a safe working environment and supporting local development through social action, payment of local taxes and employment, among others. Staff 70 own professionals, in 8 countries 14 new professionals 11 men and 3 women Contract types 89% staff with permanent contracts 100% staff with full time contracts Accidents Zero accidents in own and external personnel Zero occupational diseases Social action initiatives Poland, Brazil, Turkey and Mexico 42 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 People 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 Management approach At Elawan, the ongoing process of internationalisation implies certain challenges in terms of culture, organisation and human resource management, adapting the workforce to new national and international needs. Having highly skilled and motivated professionals is a key aspect in order to grow as a competitive, solid, sustainable and emission-free company. All this is possible by integrating Health and Safety at all levels of the organization, with a true preventive culture in a safe working environment. For this reason, from the Human Resources department we are concerned about guaranteeing stable, quality employment with possibilities for growth and promotion among employees. Own staff 102-8 In 2019, the Elawan headcount is made up of 70 of our own professionals, the majority of whom are based in Spain (59%), the US (14%) and Brazil (11%). The table 1.5% below shows how they are allocated: Romania 1.5% South Africa Poland 6% Distribution by professional category is as Professionals by gender Mexico 4% and country 3% follows: 9% are executives, 31% are mana14% Belgium gers and middle managers and the remaiMen Women USA ning 60% include the rest of the workforce. Belgium 2 0 Brazil 3 5 11% Professionals by Spain 25 16 category and gender Brazil Mexico 3 0 Men Women Poland 4 0 Romania 1 0 59% Managers 6 0 South Africa 0 1 Spain Middle Managers 18 4 USA 9 1 Other personnel 23 19 Total 47 23 Total 47 23 External personnel As a result of its activity, Elawan generates indirect employment mainly in maintenance and construction activities. In maintenance, the volume of subcontracting is similar every year, as the work is pre-scheduled. It is estimated that on average there are 30 people per wind farms and solar and hydraulic plants. In construction, there are significant variations in the number of outsourced personnel, depending on the number and size of the renewable energy projects. This activity is carried out through EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) type contracts, where the assigned company manages the staff in the different stages of the work. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 43 Attraction, development and talent 404-2 At Elawan we are aware that people are our most valuable asset. Having motivated and qualified professionals, in a pleasant work environment, is a key aspect in order to grow as a competitive, solid and sustainable company. 1 2 Training and skills Hiring development The search for the best 5 Internal Promotion fit for the position. Training mechanisms adapted to the personnel. Continuous Career development and talent development plans. recognition. Mobility opportunities between countries. 3 Job stability 4 Performance Job security to show trust in the team review and in long-term relations. Objective assessment of their development and promotion. 1 Hiring and leaving the company: Staff turnover 401-1 At Elawan we are seeking professionals who fit the requireIn 2019, 14 new professionals were hired, mainly in Spain ments of each position, avoiding any type of discrimination (57%) and the USA (21%). On the other hand, a total of 15 in relation to race, gender, age, nationality, religion, political professionals left the company during the year, 94% of beliefs, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, social whom did so voluntarily. origin or any other personal condition. The following tables summarize the distribution by professional category: Hires MEN WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 Managers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Managers 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Other personnel 1 6 1 1 2 1 0 0 TOTAL HIRINGS 1 6 2 2 2 1 0 0 Dismissal leaves MEN WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 Managers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Managers 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other personnel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL DISMISSALS 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Voluntary leaves MEN WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 18-25 26-35 36-45 >46 Managers 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Middle Managers 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 Other personnel 0 5 1 2 0 0 1 0 TOTAL OTHER CAUSES 0 5 3 3 0 0 3 0 44 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 2 Education and training 3 Job stability 404-1 Elawan's priority is to have mechanisms and plans to get to know Elawan is aware that in order to enhance job stability it is and train all personnel, adapted to the different levels and profiles necessary to show confidence in the team. For this reason, 89% of the company. of the staff have a permanent contract, while the remaining 11% have a temporary contract, mostly in Spain. All contracts (100%) Every year, an assessment of the training needs of the workers are on a full-time basis. is made and a training plan is developed “ad hoc” according to the requirements of each position/country. The plan covers both lanProfessionals guage training and specific training in other fields such as Health Full time contract Part-time contract & Safety, compliance, skills, etc. The methodology is outlined in MAN Woman Man Woman the Integrated Management System. Belgium 2 0 0 0 The training also aims to offer employees the chance to be proBrazil 3 5 0 0 moted and to adapt to new jobs within the company. Spain 25 16 0 0 Mexico 3 0 0 0 For new employees, an induction course is held in which they are Poland 4 0 0 0 introduced to the company and are informed of the applicable Romania 1 0 0 0 rules and codes, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct. In addiS. Africa 0 1 0 0 tion, this year we strengthened training in the field of IT security USA 9 1 0 0 and data protection, with various face-to-face sessions. TOTAL 47 23 0 0 In 2019, a total of 848 hours of training have been given, 59% Professionals for male employees and 41% for female staff. The average per Permanent contract Temporal contract employee is 12 hours (11 hours/man) and 15 hours/woman). MAN Woman Man Woman Most of the training was carried out in Spain with 82%, followed Belgium 2 0 0 0 by Brazil with 17% and the USA with the remaining 1%. It can be Brazil 3 5 0 0 concluded that the training offered during the year was 100% Spain 21 13 4 3 satisfactory and effective, according to plan. Mexico 3 0 0 0 Distribution by professional category is as follows: Poland 3 0 1 0 Romania 1 0 0 0 S. Africa 0 1 0 0 USA 9 1 0 0 Training (hours) TOTAL 42 20 5 3 MAN WOMAN Managers 0 0 Middle Managers 245 76,5 Other personnel 252.5 274 TOTAL 497.5 350.5 5 Internal promotion At Elawan, we believe that internal promotion entails recognising talent and investing in professional development within the company. For this reason, we consider internal promotion to be funda4 Performance evaluation mental to retaining talent. 404-3 To internally fill a specific vacant position, the CEO and the head of the department/area, after analysing the requirements for the poThe objective of performance evaluation is to periodically assess, sition, establish the appropriate group of people for that vacancy, both quantitatively and qualitatively, employees with regard to and follow the established procedures until final approval. their level of effectiveness in the activities they carry out and the In the case that the offer is for a very specific profile or has not results obtained by their work, measuring each individual’s contribeen covered straight away, it is outsourced through the different bution to the corporate objectives. communication channels that the company have for such cases. Due to its size and considering that most of the staff is based at Therefore, thanks to the presence of the company in different headquarters, no formal and structured procedure is followed for countries and the implementation of new projects, employees can performance evaluation. choose to be relocated and thus opt for greater professional deveEvery year the heads of the different departments meet with the lopment and enrichment in other countries. CEO and the performance of all the professionals is evaluated (100%), assessing the fulfilment of objectives and the achievements made. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 45 Working conditions and human rights The company understands that in order to retain professionals Maternity/ paternity leaves 401-3 it is necessary to offer a series of benefits and favourable conditions that allow their development in a suitable environment. In 2018 there were no maternity or paternity leaves. In 2019 there was one maternity leave, although this person is no longer Furthermore, we act under a model of ethics, sustainability and working for the company. respect for human rights, as reflected in the renewal of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and our dedication to the Sustainable Development Goals. Labour agreements 102-41 Elawan has not identified any risks of child labour and/or forced The rights and duties of all employees are set out in agreements labour or human rights violations in any renewable energy proor similar formulas, depending on the country where the comjects or office, nor have any facilities been examined or assessed pany operates in, its regulations and local requirements. in relation to human rights, except for those renewable energy projects where the Equator Principles apply (408-1, 409-1, 412All countries are under the labour law of the country and, within 1 and 412-3). this, Spain applies a Collective Bargaining Agreement (59%), USA follows a Handbook (14%) and Belgium (3%) applies specific conditions according to the activity where it is registered. Working and professional life status The balance between employees' professional and personal lives is important for their health and well-being. For several Social benefits years now, flexible working hours have been implemented, which Social benefits within Elawan vary according to the countries allows for the adaptation of starting and finishing times to the where the company is present (401-2). personal circumstances of each employee in Spain. In other In Spain, all employees have life and disability insurance and countries, this is handled on an individual basis depending on the health coverage. In addition, a Flexible Remuneration Plan (FRP) requirements of each renewable energy projects, local legislation including a range of services with tax advantages is offered. and the customs of each country. The distribution of the FRP is summarized below: A continuación, se resume la distribución del FRP: Diversity Elawan believes that the perspective and mindset of professionals from different backgrounds helps achieve positive changes 27.3% in the organization, in working methodologies and increases their Transport capacity for innovation in response to the current market. voucher The company believes that by promoting local employment, it 45.4% contributes to strengthening dialogue with local communities, Restaurant enabling a more accurate knowledge of their culture and, therevoucher fore, improving integration. As a result, 96% of our headcount (94% of men and 100% of 27.3% Childcare women) are locals (405-1) (note: native-born employees are voucher considered local). With regard to the management of Elawan, it is made up of 4 professionals, all of them in the corporate office in Spain (100%), In the United States, the company has an Insurance Plan in acreporting directly to the CEO. Therefore, the percentage of manacordance with the law, which includes dental coverage and life gement in other countries is 0 (202-2). insurance, while in Mexico, employees are provided with private medical insurance. For the third consecutive year, we have improved the gender diversity ratio, going from 28% women in 2017 to 32% in 2018 and 33% in 2019. With respect to differently abled people, the ratio is 0”. 46 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Communication Remunerations 202-1 Internal communication Elawan is aware that remuneration is an important element for The internal communication is aimed at an international team our professionals. For this reason and because of the profile of and is addressed to those employees located in different counemployees, the minimum wage is always higher than the one estries who travel frequently for work-related purposes. The most tablished by local legislation. versatile channel is the corporate intranet website, Leading the The most representative country is Spain, accounting for 59% of Change. the workforce, followed by the USA with 14% and Brazil with 11%. . The CEO meets periodically with management and at least twice • In the case of Spain, the ratio in 2019 for all professional caa year with all employees to communicate those areas of interest tegories and genders is higher than that established by the and respond to their concerns directly. labour agreement, as follows: In addition, employees are informed by e-mail of any operational changes or relevant news. Spain Difference % over the minimum wage established in the agreement External communication Men Women The external communication with the rest of the company's Managers 293% NA stakeholders is done through web publishing, press releases, Middle Managers 112% 115% meetings, etc. In addition, for a more agile communication, social Other personnel 24% 11% networks are available to be able to follow day by day and more closely the relevant events of the company. • In Brazil, the ratio in 2019 can only be established for plant personnel and in all cases is well above the country's minimum wage (74% for men and 65% for women). There is only one person in each category for middle and top management, and due to confidentiality, the ratios are not published. Brazil Difference % over the minimum country wage Men Women Other personnel 74% 65% • In the case of the US, we cannot publish this ratio since in many States the minimum wage is established per hour, which makes this calculation extremely difficult. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 47 Health and Safety Management approach New Policy on Response to Serious and Imminent Risks This policy has been defined to demonstrate Elawan's commit103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 ment to safe and healthy working conditions based on three main actions: detecting, communicating and responding to these risks. In 2019, the implementation of the Health and Safety manaBy means of this policy we want to avoid exposing any of our gement system under the OHSAS 18001 standard to the new own or subcontracted employees to risk situations beyond thointernational ISO 45001 standard was completed, focusing on se identified and evaluated in any previous risk assessment and improving communication and the participation of all workers in over which sufficient controls are applied to minimise them to Health & Safety issues. acceptable limits. This move provided an opportunity to improve our management system and helped to give us orientation in the construction phase, which was the last one incorporated into the scope of the New Health and Safety Management on Construction system. Sites Handbook Throughout the process, various documents related to the maThis handbook was created in 2018 and we have already been nagement system have been updated to improve and develop working on its first revision. Its objective is to set guidelines to the reference standards more effectively. Among them, we hicreate a safe and healthy working environment for both own and ghlight the process map, the manual, the purchasing procedure subcontracted workers, monitoring and measuring matters relaand the evaluation of suppliers. ted to Health and Safety. These changes optimize our management system, which keeps In this new version we adapted the handbook to new realities using risks as a basis for our planning and strategy. detected mainly in the construction phase, taking as a reference the renewable energy projects already completed, as well as the new engagements acquired by Elawan and its contractors. New documents associated with Purchasing Procedure and Evaluation of Suppliers the Health and Safety management This procedure, whose objective is to establish the purchasing system process and on the basis of which suppliers are evaluated, has In the course of this year, the process of adapting the integrated been modified to include more business-related, environmental management system to integrate ISO 45001 was completed. and Health and Safety criteria. The main documentary changes have reinforced the commitment to the Health & Safety of our workers, employees and visitors. To this end, the following documents have been created Emergencies or modified: Elawan Energy has an emergency control and preparedness procedure, which includes guidelines for action covering all phases of the process, from the identification and definition of these siNew Management System Policy tuations in the various plans, to the communication and analysis We have updated the management system policy with new reof them, through the updating of the incident investigation form. quirements such as protection against the deterioration of worIn order to ensure its proper implementation, periodic simulations kers' health, as well as the promotion of workers' participation are carried out. and consultation in matters relating to Health and Safety. In addition, we use a Health and Safety incident reporting system (Safe Alert) that shares incidents with all site supervisors and managers in each country so that measures can be taken, and controls established to prevent a situation from recurring in different facilities. 48 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Training and communication Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure Training in the United States Training This training is made up of two complementary areas: an environmental section and a Health and Safety one.. Training in Health and Safety is essential to ensure safe activi• LThe environmental part establishes how to act in the most ties and workplaces. In order to understand the training requireefficient way in the face of an emergency situation arising ments, the history is reviewed and expired technical training is from the spillage of chemical products, acting in a timely mandetected, and in addition, the needs detected by Elawan's worner and thus avoiding the contamination of water, soil or pokers or country managers are also considered. tentially affecting public health. Every year and based on the different new additions, a Training plan is drawn up and it includes a proposal on the different cour• The Health and Safety and section aims to increase knowleses and the associated budgets. The plan is approved by the dge in the use of safe methods for the containment and remanagement. moval of chemicals, avoiding any danger to the health of the worker. In 2019, around 40% of total training hours were related to Health and Safety at work. Some of the courses held in 2019 include the following: Protective and training equipment Elawan, is aware of the importance of Health and Safety, is resGlobal Wind Organization training in Spain and Brazil ponsible for ensuring that its workers have the necessary and appropriate tools for the development of their activity. Over the course of 2019, various GWO recycling courses have been held in Spain and Brazil. These were conducted by plant suFor this reason, individual protection equipment is checked anpervisors and office staff including on-site tours of the wind farnually by specialized companies, placing special emphasis on ms. This internationally oriented training helps us to know how equipment used in work at height (harnesses, helmets, fall arresto act in emergency situations such as rescuing people, applying ters, double ropes with absorbers, etc.). first aid and extinguishing fires. SGI-PRL Global Training We have defined and implemented a new course that covers the most relevant features of the Management System and training on the specific risks of office workplaces (OWP). Similarly, information on the management of emergencies in the workplace and/or the treatment of accidents in itinere is included. This training has been distributed to the entire staff and is kept available to employees in the common directory. NR 10 training in Brazil This training is required by the Brazilian government. It takes place within the framework of high voltage electrical activities and was completed by two of our employees. This training is essential to be able to perform live work in total safety, being aware of the risks and helping to improve our performance in risk situations. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 49 Participation and Consultation However, Elawan has a documented procedure for participation and consultation available to the workers, who 403-1 AND 403-4 are informed annually of the various topics included in the Elawan's commitment to Health and Safety is also made communication matrix, including the policy, accidents octhrough participation and consultation. To this end, direct curring during the year, etc. communication is established with the QHSE Manager by All incoming information is analysed, responded to and intelephone and e-mail, in which a wide range of queries are tegrated into the continuous improvement of the organimade, such as the management of premises access, pursation. In addition, in some of the countries there are local chase and management of PPE, determination of training advisory services on Health and Safety that guarantee needs and, of course, the requirements necessary for legal control and compliance with the specific requirements of compliance. each place where the company has a presence. Within this framework, Elawan takes on a serious commitment to the right to information, participation and consultation of its workers, making it extend to the rest of the Communication and Awareness company's stakeholders. In relation to ISO 45001, all worVarious communications have been made in the area of kers are asked to participate in the improvement of Health the environment and occupational Health and Safety in and Safety processes. By doing so, we seek transparen2019. To this end, a communications matrix has been cy and collaboration with all workers, regardless of their established for registration and the establishment of new professional status or their relationship with Health and needs that arise. Safety. Access to documentation is now much easier. DigitaliAt Elawan there is no legal obligation to constitute Health zation and new ways of working such as via SharePoint, & Safety Committees, even though the QSHE area collects allow workers to access the system's information from all the doubts and suggestions of all employees in every any point on the planet, even without an Internet conneccountry. Therefore, there is no union representation, nor tion. unitary representation, nor are there any agreements on Over the course of 2019, the company handled many safety matters. communications, among which the following stand out. 50 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 · Documentation resulting from the application of the GDPR. In Spain, over the last 8 years, Elawan has received the in· Environmental performance centives granted by the Ministry of Labour for its contribu· Emergency plan for the Madrid headquarters building tion to the reduction and prevention of occupational acci· Environmental Incident Surveys dents by virtue of “Royal Decree 404/2010, of 31 March, · Supplier evaluation criteria which regulates the establishment of a system of lowering · Coordination of business activities contributions for professional contingencies for companies that have made a special contribution to the reduction and Similarly, new documents have been added this year: prevention of occupational accidents . · New requirements for PPEs · Policy in case of serious or imminent risk · Changes in the workplace External Communication Sufficient communication channels are available to meet the needs that may arise at any Elawan facility worldwide. Internal communication Daily communication is based on compliance with Health Specific channels that are included in the Management and Safety protocols at Elawan and our facilities, so we System are used for communication on Health and Safety maintain direct communication with our supervisors and matters at an internal level. Communication is conducted suppliers. in two directions, following the guidelines set by the HealIn the event of accidents at Elawan's facilities, we will foth and Safety manager and the rest of the staff. llow the communication channels established for this purIn the case of accidents, a communications network has pose, as well as the duties and deadlines defined by the been set up for their analysis and the subsequent establicompetent authority in each country. shment of controls, taking this information to all countries As far as external stakeholders are concerned, excluding and site supervisors so that, among all of them, controls suppliers and public administrations, no communications can be established to prevent the recurrence of such acciof an environmental, Health and Safety or any other type dents in other facilities. other than the usual ones have been received. Awareness raising Elawan promotes Health and Safety awareness through the dissemination of regular campaigns and/or information of interest; coinciding with relevant dates, such as: World Health Safety Day. Follow-up indicators 403-2 Accidentality of own and external personnel There have been no accidents at our facilities in operation and maintenance by our own or outside personnel in 2019. The controls established, the training provided to workers, their good performance and the supervision of our plant managers have contributed to the absence of accidents. . Occupational illnesses No se han identificado casos de enfermedad profesional en personal propio, por lo que la tasa global es de “0” para ambos géneros, ni se han identificado casos de riesgo (403-3). Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 51 Society Social action 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-12 AND 413-1 Elawan continues to work strategically to meet the Sustainable Development Goals. To this end, among other things, we establish a different social action plan in each country, based on the possible needs set by public administrations or detected as a result of dialogue with the different stakeholders. In addition, we also form part as partners of the Global Compact since 2014, contributing to the fulfilment of its 10 principles in our field of action and we renewed our commitment in 2019. We are also committed to the Sustainable Development Goals in line with our business. • Sponsorship of the Trzeszczany Picnic Our main value for local communities is the production of clean energy, both in remote and built-up areas, thus allowing this energy to reach a greater number of people. Within this framework, we collaborate with non-profit organizations for the development of corporate and local activities. This allows for greater and better development in rural or isolated areas, as it is adapted to complicated environments where the electricity supply does not reach or is very costly to implement. Moreover, its average useful life is more than 30 years and technological costs have been significantly reduced. In addition to providing renewable and clean energy, Elawan seeks to collaborate with social needs in the areas where it is present through the creation of local employment, the construction • Sponsorship of the Country Holiday in Bogucice. of infrastructure for social development and education, as well as training in different areas and stages. We also contribute to • Sponsorship of harvest festivals in Trzeszczany and Wlosthe development of local suppliers, for example through maintezakowice. nance work, improvement of facilities or waste management. No Elawan keeps working to raise awareness of the benefits of our operations with significant negative impacts (actual and potenwork and the production of renewable energy, which directly betial) on local communities have been identified (413-2). nefits these communities. Elawan believes that initiatives at the local level contribute to strengthening links with the community. Some examples of such Elawan in Turkey initiatives are as follows: In Turkey, Elawan is involved in 3 wind farms in different areas of the country. In 2019, a project was carried out at the primary Elawan in Poland school in the town of Tashan, near the Yahyali wind farm, to repair the toilets that were in poor condition. In Poland, where we have a wind farm in Szerzawy (Pawlow), a variety of social actions related to the sponsorship of sport and leisure have been carried out, among which the following stand Elawan in Brazil out: In Brazil, where Elawan is involved in 10 wind farms, three actions • Sponsorship of runners in the Szerzawy race. contributing to different objectives and needs of the community • Elawan organized the Windmill Festival in Peresolowice, to in the local area of Macambiras have been carried out, as sumraise awareness of the upcoming construction of a wind farm marized below: in the area • Extension of the Maria Liborio School: During 2019, an annex building was built to enlarge the Maria Liborio School in Macambiras. The building was delivered in January 2020. 52 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 • Children's football tournament: in collaboration with the Salvador Alvarado primary school, uniforms and sports equipment were donated to enable the children of Timul to continue their athletic development. • Remodelling and adaptation of the Casa de farinhas : This is a work of renovation and conditioning of a building used for the processing of cassava flour. The project includes the necessary machinery for processing the flour. • Yucatan Ixmatkuil Children's Fair: this fair is considered one of the oldest cultural events in the Yucatan. Our participation in this event was based on the coordination with the authorities of the transportation and free entrance of 50 families of the community of Timul where the children enjoyed a family atmosphere of fun. • Assistance for the delivery of toys in Timul: we participated in the distribution of toys on the Christmas and December holidays. About 700 people participated in it, with an atmosphere of joy and happiness. • Construction and supply of equipment for the Digital Inclusion Room: This building was constructed next to the school and is equipped with 10 stations with Internet connection that can be used by anyone in the area. Elawan in Mexico In Mexico, where we are currently participating in the operation of two mini hydroelectric plants (Tacotán and Trigomil) and where we are developing the promotion and upcoming construction of the Huimilpan wind farm, a series of actions have been developed aimed at improving the health of nearby communities, cultural transmission, environmental protection and local development through the hiring of local companies and personnel, among which the following stand out: • Hiring of local labor: we seek to hire local personnel for diffe• Medical care days in association with the Tunich civil project: rent activities such as environmental counseling, cleaning and providing medical appointments from December 2019 to Fepruning of land, maintenance of hydroelectric power plants, bruary 2020 for people belonging to the community. These etc. in the projects of Trigomil and Tacotán, as well as the wind medical consultations also included ultrasounds, nutritional projects of Chicxulub and Chicxulub II. We currently employ guidance and dental check-ups. more than 25 people with working periods ranging from 1 to • Promotion of the Mayan culture and protection of the envi3 months helping the growth and development of the nearby ronment in Timul: with the collaboration of the Munch Kaancommunities. bal kindergarten a painting workshop was held on the subject • Economic support for the communities: in the Huimilpan wind of the protection of bees. The workshop ended with the delifarm project a US$ 109,000 agreement has been formalized very of honey, purchased from local producers, to the particiwith the local community Ejido Los Martinez for the sustainapants. ble development of the community. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 53 Environmental dimension Elawan Energy, S.L. monitors the environmental impacts arising from its activity, measuring its performance, minimizing its impact and identifying opportunities for improvement. Because of its activity, it is aligned in the fight against climate change with a strategy that will enable it to move towards an emission-neutral future. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System Scope: promotion, construction, operation and sale of renewable energy or dismantling Environmental controls Environmental vigilance and monitoring programmes Emissions produced 562 tons CO2/year Avoided emissions 487,692 tons CO2/year 54 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental management Management approach Modification of the Environmental Management Handbook 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 The high level of Health and Safety controls resulted in a very large document. It has to be distributed to different environmental The environment is key to Elawan throughout our entire business control and safety monitoring companies so it has been divided model. We currently use an environmental management system to simplify its use.. certified under the ISO 14001 standard in its 2015 version. Its Both handbooks are included in the contracts in place with the scope includes all the company's processes, from the promotion main work contractor and will be gradually implemented in the of a new facility for the production of renewable energy at an rest of the works and contractors at international level between international level, its construction and operation, as well as the 2020 and 2021. management of its potential sale or decommissioning. Every year, this system evolves and fits the new needs detected in any of the operation phases. This improvement is reflected in the external audits carried out annually by an accredited external entity. The outcome of the audit showed zero non-conformities again in 2019. In accordance with the commitments acquired with the management system, in 2019 we directed our strands of work in environmental matters towards: • Reducing energy consumption in the office • Implementing a new on-site operational control handbook in all projects in Spain. Our main objective is also operational control in the construction phase, since this area was introduced 2 years ago in the scope of the certificate and we considered that in addition to the legally established control, a more exhaustive control in the construction process is necessary. As a result, last year we created the Environmental Management and Safety on Site Handbook, which helped our main contractor and our environmental consultants to control not only the legally New action plan for environmental incidents stipulated points but also any other impact to be controlled. Over the course of 2019, a review of the environmental emerThis handbook has already been successfully used in 2019 in gency plan has been completed. In this revision, new chemical the works of the Torrijos Photovoltaic Plant. Nonetheless, we are signage was incorporated to bring it into line with the new instill improving the system and have modified some sections, diternational symbolism, as well as rules for the environmentally fferentiating it from the Health and Safety one. compatible storage of these chemicals. Throughout this year, the implementation of the new templates and records was reinforced in order to consolidate their use among the staff and new documents were developed, among New surveys on performance in response to which it is worth mentioning: environmental incidents Following the revision of the environmental incidents action plan, a second version of the environmental incidents survey has been drawn up, distributed and satisfactorily answered by our site supervisors. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 55 Environmental aspects Emergency Preparedness Elawan has a procedure for the identification and evaluation of environmental aspects, based on the company's different processes and Response (promotion, construction, operation and sale). In 2019, after updating the action plans for environmental inciWe determine significance based on benchmark data from the predents, a survey was conducted among our operating personnel. vious year, applicable legal requirements, stakeholder involvement The analysis shows a remarkable improvement when compared to and established control measures. previous years. Depending on these significant aspects we establish the environDuring the course of 2019, there were no environmental incidents mental objectives of the system, seeking to reduce our environ(306-3), nor were there any complaints or legal disputes regarding mental impact. This is not only the case for the significant aspects environmental management (307-1). but also with those that are not, on which we also establish controls and measures in order to reduce their impact. Communication, awareness and stakeholders Our management system relies on a communication model based on internal and external transparency. Throughout this year, the results of the needs and expectations of the stakeholders were revised in accordance with the established format; no breaches were detected, and compliance with expectations was consistently guaranteed. Following the review of the stakeholders, three new ones were incorporated: mutual insurance company for accidents, external prevention service as well as waste handlers and carriers. Among the internal communications and disclosures made, it is noteworthy to mention those made on specific dates related to the environment, as well as documentary updates of the management system. Once the evaluation is completed, the following significant aspects Highlights of the year have been identified: As stated in our management system, we set periodic • Consumption of paper in the Madrid office improvement targets. Below, we summarize their level of fulfillment: • Consumption of batteries or accumulators in the Madrid office • Reduction of the tons of CO2 produced by business trips • Fluorescent generation in the Madrid office and employee commuting by 5% compared to 2017. • Consumption of printer cartridges in the Madrid office The objective has been achieved after a 44% reduction • Generation of contaminated absorbents in the O&M centres with respect to the previous year. The recentralisation of workplaces in the Madrid office, the optimisation of travel • Generation of contaminated metal containers in the O&M and trip planning and the adaptation to new communication phase models (Skype, videoconferencing, etc.) have been decisive • Generation of oil filters in the O&M phase in achieving these results (302-4). • Generation of non-hazardous waste in the O&M phase • Reduction of energy consumption in wind farms and solar and hydraulic plants and offices by 11.8% compared to No significant incidents have occurred in emergency situations. 2018 (5,673 GJ in 2018 and 5075GJ in 2019). On a positive note, the reduction in tonnes of CO2 following the 0.5% increase in production compared to the previous year's as• General reduction of consumption in operating plants sessment has again been noted. of water by 25%, electricity by 13%, paper by 30% and batteries and accumulators by 65%. This evidences the We must take into account that many of our environmental ascommitment of our site supervisors and suppliers to the pects in the O&M phase are related to the planning of preventive efficient use of resources. and corrective maintenance done to the equipment, so in some cases these results are very variable and in other cases they are • Establishment of measurement controls for waste cyclical. generation in the construction phase. 56 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental The generation of this waste is directly proportional to the type of maintenance performed, both preventive and corrective. Due to performance this and to the good maintenance of the renewable energy projects, the generation of waste is cyclical, which has a direct impact on the amount of waste generated. No significant spills have occurred (306-3). Elawan is aware of its ability to impact positively and negatively Both hazardous waste (306-4) and non-hazardous waste are maon the environment and is therefore one of our cornerstones. In nagement and transported by authorised companies and usually order to comply with the environment, we establish adequate conby local companies. Due to their characteristics, they are common trols through procedures, handbooks, policies and engagements, waste (oil, absorbents, aerosols, etc.) and therefore all of them are not only affecting us but also our suppliers, to ensure that the enmanaged and transported by local companies. Elawan does not vironmental impact resulting from our activity is minimised. handle imported or exported waste or treat it in any way. For the promotion, construction and operation phases we define indicators that help us measure our environmental impacts, the results of which are summarized in the following sections. Noise In some cases, due to maintenance contracts, we do not have, at Another aspect we can have an impact on, to a greater or lesser least directly, all the data, but we have other controls to ensure extent, is noise. This depends mainly on the area and country whecompliance with legal requirements and contractual engagements. re the wind farms and solar and hydraulic plants are located. None of our renewable energy projects fail to comply with the limits Waste management 306-2 established by legislation or the applicable environmental impact statements. Through the management system, the main indicators on hazardous and non-hazardous waste are monitored, distinguishing those produced in offices from those produced in renewable energy projects, those derived from maintenance work or those from Biodiversity construction. The management of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste complies with the legislation of the different countries. Environmental impacts 304-2 For monitoring purposes, we consider the relative values accorOne of the pillars on which our integrated management system is ding to the energy production in the plants or the number of embased is the understanding of the impacts that we produce on ployees in the Madrid offices, in order to have comparable data the environment with our different processes such as the promofrom year to year in the different premises. For the data related to tion, construction and operation of production facilities. We also the construction we are in a preliminary analysis process and our take into account, not only those directly affected, but also those initial option is to compare it with the MW produced. produced by the actions of third parties and those derived from It should be noted that, for the analysis of the data, the amount of emergency situations. waste generated at each facility is brought into line with the proThe decommissioning phase is not included, since this phase duction of that facility and subsequently the overall result of the is not yet reached. However, we plan to make an identification company is obtained. In 2019, a total of 2,684 kilos of non-hazarwhen this occurs, based on the Environmental Impact Statement dous waste and 8,768 kilos of hazardous waste were produced. and any applicable legal requirements. The ratios with regard to the previous year are shown below: All environmental requirements and demands established by the • Generation of contaminated absorbents: increased by 26.3% competent authorities such as permits, licences, compensatory • Generation of aerosols: not generated. measures and specific environmental studies have been carried out and complied with in all cases. • Generation of contaminated metal containers: increased by 32.8% • Generation of contaminated plastic containers: Protection of flora and fauna 304-1, 304-3 AND 304-4 reduced by 55.8% • Generation of oil filters: increased by 12.2% As a result of the environmental reports and/or environmental impact studies, no species subject to any protection status are • Generation of waste oil: reduced by 51,7%. identified in our renewable energy projects. Similarly, our new facilities are not located in protected areas. Likewise, to avoid risks, biodiversity is monitored and measured by specialized companies using the most advanced methodologies and techniques to respond to the environmental liabilities determined by the competent authorities in each case. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 57 Circular Economy According to the final version of the taxonomy report of the European Union's Technical Expert Group (TEG) on Sustainable Finance, Elawan Energy's activity is classified within the group of economic activities that contribute substantially to the European Union's Green Pact, and its positioning with respect to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change (2015). In this sense, and to further support the transition to a resourConsequently, the company's circular economy response focuses ce-efficient and low-carbon economy, the company is structuring on specific environmental impacts for which appropriate minimiits integrated management system around the following six prinsation, control and mitigation measures are set ciples of the circular economy: • Reducing the consumption of natural resources through • Systemic thinking and applying a holistic approach to unawareness-raising campaigns and good practices and reduderstand how its choices and activities interact within the cing international travel. larger systems of which it is a part. • Responsible purchasing of sustainably managed paper • Continuous innovation to create value through sustainable (PEFC or FSC). resource management, and the design of a socially responsi• Minimisation of the generation of waste (hazardous ble business model. and non-hazardous) by purchasing rechargeable batteries • Management and good governance of the direct and indiand reusing paper in offices and used oils, by carrying out corect impacts that decisions and activities within the company rrective and preventive maintenance based on the manufachave on the wider communities and ecosystems of which turer's ranges and prioritising on-site repairs, and by recycling they are an integral part. and valorising the waste generated that could not be avoided (fluorescent tubes, metal waste, paper and printer cartridges, • Internal and external collaboration through formal or tacit among others). agreements to create mutual value. • Reduction and control of soil and water pollution throu• Optimization of the value of all products, components and gh the application of environmental monitoring plans, vehicle materials to maintain their maximum usability over time. control programming and the establishment of on-site envi• Transparency about decisions and activities that affect ronmental management plans. Elawan Energy's ability to transition to a more circular and • Protection of wildlife through the deployment of environsustainable operation, and its willingness to communicate this mental surveillance plans and controls, periodic monitoring in a clear, accurate, timely, honest and comprehensive manner. and follow-up. The exercise in communicative transparency that is evident in this sustainability report is a clear demonstration of this. 58 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Energy and climate change Environmental controls Energy Elawan complies with all its environmental surveillance and moElawan has a very low energy consumption, stemming mainnitoring programs, ensuring compliance with the compensatory ly from the maintenance of the wind farms, solar and hydraulic measures and requirements established by the competent authoplants and offices. rities. These studies are concentrated in the construction phase, supported by the On-site Environmental Management Manual Internal energy consumption 302-1 during the operation process with environmental monitoring and In 2019 Elawan specific studies carried out by specialized companies. Energy consumption (GJ) consumed 5,076 GJ The following is a non-exhaustive summary of some of the most of non-renewable Belgium 282 significant controls carried out at the company's centres: Brazil 563 energy in its Spain 250 renewable energy USA 1,586 projects. Mexico 0 Poland 286 Turkey 2,109 TOTAL 5,076 Energy intensity 302-3 Elawan believes that measuring its energy intensity is a good way to know the efficiency and impact of its activity. For this reason, we update this information annually, based on the ratio between energy consumption and the total weight of energy sold in each country. The following table summarises the results: Construction projects Energy intensity As for external enerCopperton (South Africa) (GJ consumed /GJ produced) gy consumption, no • Monthly environmental compliance reports. Belgium 0.0008 information on this Brazil 0.0003 parameter is available. • Permanent environmental supervision on site by a competent Spain 0.0033 Information is expected technician. USA 0.0006 to be provided by 2030 Mexico 0.0000 (302-2). O&M projects Poland 0.0031 Turkey 0.0036 Spain TOTAL 0.0009 • Annual environmental monitoring reports officially submitted to the administration. Renewable energy production 302-1 • Monthly inspections by competent technical staff. At Elawan we are aware that climate change is one of the main • Analysis of bird accident rates associated with the projects. environmental issues on the planet, as well as a relevant issue for stakeholders. Consequently, our activity, the generation of re• Control of environmental emergencies. newable energy, contributes to this fight. In 2019 we generated a Brazil total of 5,692,992 GJ of energy from renewable sources, the distribution of which by country is summarized below: • Maintenance of Operation Licenses based on compliance with the conditions defined therein and on permanent comRenewable energy production(GJ) munication with the competent environmental body (IDEMA). Belgium 348,119 • Annual environmental monitoring reports submitted to the Brazil 1,965,346 public administration. Spain 75,508 USA 2,551,084 USA Mexico 74,640 Poland 90,781 • Annual reports on waste and compliance with the Spill PreTurkey 587,514 vention Control Countermeasures (SPCC). TOTAL 5,692,992 Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 59 Emissions and climate change The fight against climate change is Little progress has been made at the annual meetings held from a key aspect of our business. That 2015 onwards, mainly on Article 6 to define the rules for the caris why we are actively working to bon market. The last COP 25 meeting in Madrid has successfully achieve the Sustainable Development given visibility to the problem and disseminated the scientific and Goals, particularly goal 7 (Affordable and clean energy) and goal expert reports that guarantee a complicated future if urgent ac13 (Climate action). tion is not taken. In addition, there have been significant demonstrations and demands emanating from civil society. Within this voluntary framework, the Sustainable Development Risks and opportunities associated Goals, mainly those directly related to climate, such as SDG 13 with climate change climate action and SDG 7 affordable and clean energy , cannot be missed. 201-2 The European Union has positioned itself as a leader in the face of the problem, presenting the New Green Deal , in which it esGlobal situation tablishes the main lines of action for the coming years, in order Carbon dioxide emissions have increased again in 2019 despite to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, as an opportunity to mothe economic slowdown and the decline in coal use, with a new dernise, facilitate innovation and improve the competitiveness record estimated at 0.6% more than last year (in 2018 these of the European economy and generate quality jobs. The pact emissions grew by 2.1% and in 2017 by 1.5%), according to the proposes mobilizing 100 billion euros between 2021 and 2027 latest report from the Global Carbon Project. As the World Mein order to achieve this objective. teorological Organization has already noted, 2019 will mark the However, it is in 2020 where real and tangible commitments and end of the hottest decade on record. plans to reduce carbon emissions and respond to this emergency The scientific community warns that, with current projections must be presented, so we will have to wait for COP 26 in Glasand measures, by the end of the century the rise may exceed gow (Scotland) and hope that countries such as the USA, China three degrees, which points directly to the production of polluting and India are part of this commitment. gases: CO2 emissions, if the report's forecasts are finally met, will With respect to Spain, the Integrated National Energy and Clialready be 4% higher than in 2015, when the Paris Agreement mate Plan 2021-2030 (PNIEC) stands out, which establishes was signed. the guidelines for electricity generation to be 100% renewable The drop in the use of coal (the main global pollutant, accounting in 2050, with intermediate milestones such as in 2030, with a for 40% of total fossil fuel emissions), will be offset by a greater reduction of a third in greenhouse gas emissions, having 42% of use of natural gas and oil worldwide. renewable energies in the electricity system and 74% in elecThe situation envisaged in the four most polluting regions for tricity generation, in line with the commitments acquired with 2019 is diverse. In China, still in first place, it is estimated that Agenda 2030. they will grow by 2.6%, in the United States and European Union (second and third place) they are expected to decrease by Stakeholder expectations around 1.7% and in India, the fourth most polluting country, a rise In recent years, there has been a significant increase in social of 1.8% is predicted. mobilization, prompting governments to take urgent action to curb the rise in average global temperatures, as endorsed by Regulatory framework many rather pessimistic scientific reports. Following the commitment of the Paris Agreement (COP 21), all Within this framework, the financial sector has also taken a step countries were required to agree on measures to reduce global forward. Many institutions have already committed significant greenhouse gas emissions to levels compatible with climate seamounts of money to finance investments related to reducing curity in line with the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on emissions over the next 10 years, acting as a Climate Bank, with Climate Change (IPCC). a commitment to reduce the carbon dioxide footprint of their creThe objective is to limit the global average temperature increase dit portfolios according to internationally recognized standards, to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, which will require an acceand to channel savings and financial resources towards sustailerated change in the development model over the coming denable investments in the future. cades. 60 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Our approach Carbon dioxide emissions prevented by electricity Since the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals in production 305-5 2015, Elawan is reorienting the way we integrate and communiBecause of Elawan's activity, hardly any emissions are generacate the sustainability model, in line with our main initiatives to ted into the atmosphere. This is a way of contributing to reducing meet the SDG most directly related to our business, renewable greenhouse gas emissions and fighting climate change. energy production. In 2019, 487,692 tons of CO2 emissions were prevented. Below Through our activity, we contribute to fulfilling this new roadmap is a breakdown of the tonnes of CO2 avoided: according to current needs and trends, towards a carbon-neutral future. Avoided emissions (tonnes of CO2) Belgium 16,439 Emissions Brazil 63,874 Spain 6,041 Direct emissions Scope 1 305-1 USA 298,335 The company's production process originates with the wind, Mexico 9,890 Elawan's main raw material. Therefore, it must be taken into acPoland 17,879 Turkey 75,234 count that the company does not generate direct emissions from TOTAL 487,692 the consumption of other fossil fuels. Similarly, no refrigerant gas recharges have been carried out during the period (305-6). Emission intensity 305-4 Emisiones Indirectas Scope 2 305-2 Elawan also takes emissions intensity into account to measure These are the emissions generated in the electricity production the efficiency and impact of its processes. plants/farms and consumed in the renewable energy projects and The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of offices. In 2019, 562 tons of carbon dioxide have been measured. the indirect emissions (scope 2), by the total weight of energy produced in each country: Emissions produced (tonnes of CO2) Belgium 13 Emission intensity (tonCO2 emitted/GJ produced) Brazil 18 Spain 20 Belgium 0.00004 USA 185 Brazil 0.00001 Mexico 0 Spain 0.00026 Poland 56 USA 0.00007 Turkey 270 Mexico 0.00000 TOTAL 562 Poland 0.00000 Turkey 0.00046 TOTAL 0.00084 Other emissions Scope 3 305-3 Other emissions include emissions from corporate travel by plane, train and rental cars, as well as those resulting from employees travelling to their workplace, which total 499 tonnes of CO2. Employee commutes Car rental 53 tonnes of CO2 Train 3.5 tonnes of CO2 Airplane 0.50 tonnes of CO2 442 tonnes of CO2 Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 61 Annexes The annexes include detailed information on the scope and perimeter of the report, as well as the independent external verification report and its relationship with the 10 Principles of the Global Compact. Annex 1 Independent Review Report Annex 2 Report Profile Annex 3 GRI Content Index Annex 4 Content in relation to the Principles of the Global Compact Annex 5 Perimeter ANNEX 1 Independent Review Report Ernst & Young, S.L. Tel: 902 365 456 Calle de Raimundo Fernández Fax: 915 727 238 Villaverde, 65 28003 Madrid ey.com INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OF ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. To the Management of Elawan Energy, S.L.: Scope ► Checking selected samples of the quantitative and As commissioned by the Management of Elawan Energy, qualitative information of the contents included in S.L. and subsidiaries (hereinafter, Elawan), we have carried the “Sustainability Report 2019”, as well as their out the review of the “Sustainability Report 2019”. This adequate compilation from data supplied by information has been prepared in accordance with GRI information sources. The review tests have been Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) defined to provide the aforementioned assurance comprehensive option, as detailed in “Report profile”. levels. The scope considered by Elawan for the preparation of the ► Checking that the financial information included in Report is defined in “Scope considered of Elawan and the Report has been audited by independent third subsidiaries”. parties. The preparation of the “Sustainability Report 2019”, as These procedures have been applied to the contents in well as its content, is the responsibility of the Management Annex “GRI Content Index”, with the aforementioned of Elawan, which is also responsible for defining, adapting scope. and maintaining the management and internal control systems from which the information is obtained. Our The scope of our review is considerably lower than a responsibility is to issue an independent report based on reasonable assurance report. Therefore, the degree of the procedures applied in our review. assurance is also less extensive. This report in no case should be considered as an audit report. Criteria Independence and quality control Our review was carried out based on: We have complied with the requirements of independence ► The guidelines for reviewing Corporate and the other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics Responsibility Reports, issued by the Spanish Official for Professional Accountants issued by the International Register of Auditors of Accounts (ICJCE). Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA, for its ► Standard ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other acronym in English). than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Our firm applies the International Standard on Quality Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) of the Control 1 (ISQC 1) and maintains, as a result, a global International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), with quality control system that includes documented policies a limited assurance scope. and procedures related to compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and legal and Applied procedures regulatory provisions. Our review consisted in requesting information from the Our work has been performed by a team of sustainability Sustainability Department and the various business units experts with a wide experience in reviewing this type of participating in the preparation of the “Sustainability information. Report 2019”, applying processes and analytical procedures, and sampling review tests as described in the Conclusions general terms below: As a result of our limited review, we conclude that no ► Interviews with the staff in charge of the preparation matter came to our attention that would indicate that the of the sustainability information in order to gain a “Sustainability Report 2019” has not been prepared, in all deep understanding of how the objectives and material respects, according to the GRI Standards sustainability policies are considered, set into sustainability reporting framework, which includes the practice, and integrated within Elawan’s global data reliability, the adequacy of the information strategy. presented and the absence of significant deviations and omissions. ► Reviewing the processes for the compilation and validation of the information presented in the This report has been prepared solely for the management Report. of Elawan, in accordance with the terms set out in our ► Checking the processes held by Elawan in order to engagement letter. define the material aspects and stakeholder participation. ERNST & YOUNG, S.L. ► Reviewing the adaptation of the structure and content of the Report, as indicated in the GRI Standards sustainability reporting framework of the Global Reporting Initiative, in accordance with the comprehensive option. (Free translation from the Original Report on Independent Review in Spanish dated July 17th, 2020. In the event of any discrepancy, the Spanish version always prevails.) Domicilio Social: C/ Raimundo Fernández Villaverde, 65. 28003 Madrid Inscrita en el Registro Mercantil de Madrid, tomo 9.364 general, 8.130 de la sección 3ª del Libro de Sociedades, folio 68, hoja nº 87.690-1, inscripción 1ª. Madrid 9 de Marzo de 1.989. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 63 ANNEX 2 Report profile 102-46 The Sustainability Report was created in accordance with the Significant Changes information and indicators established in the reference guide of the comprehensive option of the “GRI Standards”, (102-54) and Respecting to the previous year, the main changes are the wind the relevant matters that arise from our Materiality Study, as an farm in Hannut (Belgium) and the photovoltaic plants in Torrijos integral part of our commitment to the Sustainable Development (Spain) and Rzapin (Poland) have been included in the scope of Goals. the report. Minor changes are indicated in the corresponding sections (102-49). The table of contents can be found in the Annex of this report, together with the independent external verification report done There has not been any restatement of information regarding the by the company EY (102-56). previous financial year (102-48), nor were there any changes in the supply chain (102-10). The goal is to communicate the most relevant aspects and initiatives, with an approach that is aligned with our way to understand sustainability and its impact on the management of the Information 102-53 company. rsc@elawan.com +34 91 379 10 00 Presentation Cycle C/ Ombú 3, floor 10. 28045 Madrid. Spain The Report has an annual periodicity (102-52), and encompasses the information covered between January 1st 2019 and December 31th 2019 (102-50), the last report being the one corresponding to the year 2018 (102-51). ANNEX 3 GRI Content Index 102-55 The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 9 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 √ 102-4 Location of operations 12 and 13 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 23 √ 102-6 Markets served 9, 12 and 13 √ Organizational profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 and 11 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 43 and 45 √ 102-9 Supply chain 41 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 64 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36 √ 102-12 External initiatives 52 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 21 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-7 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34-36 √ 64 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 27 √ 102-18 Governance structure 23 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 23 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics. 24 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics. 24 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 24 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 23 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 24 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 24 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 24 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 24 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 25 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts. 25 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 25 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 25 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 24 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 24 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 25 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 25 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 25 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 25 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Note A √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Note A √ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 46 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 19 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 71 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 20 and 64 √ 102-47 List of material topics 20 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 64 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 64 √ 102-50 Reporting period 64 √ Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 64 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 64 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 64 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 64 √ 102-55 GRI content index 64-69 √ 102-56 External assurance 64 √ NOTA A: Información confidencial. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 65 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 29 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 √ indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 √ Economic Performance √ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 60 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Note B √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 32 √ Market presence 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender GRI 202: Market presence 47 √ compared to local minimum wage Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 41 √ Practices Anticorruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 27 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 27 √ 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 27 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 27 √ Behavior practices NOTE B: Elawan Energy does not have retirement plans for its professionals. 66 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 √ Approach. It is applicable to all indicators 103-2 The management approach and its components 55 √ reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 √ Energy (no material)) 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 59 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 59 √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 59 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 56 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Note C √ Emissions (no material) 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 61 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 61 √ 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 61 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 61 √ 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 61 √ 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (SDG) 61 √ Effluents and Waste 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination Nota D √ 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 57 √ GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-3: Significant spills 57 √ 306-4: Transport of hazardous waste 57 √ 306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Nota E √ Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 57 √ areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 57 √ GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 57 √ 304-4: IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 57 √ in areas affected by operations Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 27 y 56 √ Compliance NOTE C: Not applicable. Our activity is the production of renewable energy. NOTE D: In wind farms and solar plants, due to their activity, water discharge is irrelevant. NOTE E: With respect to water collection and discharge, this is minimal as it only affects offices and is therefore not considered relevant.. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 67 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics SOCIAL PERFOMANCE Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 43, 48, 52 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 43, 48, 52 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43, 48, 52 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 44 √ 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI 401: Employment 46 √ or part-time employees 401-3: Parental leave 46 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 50 √ safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 51 √ GRI 403: Occupational absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 51 √ occupation 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 50 √ Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 45 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 44 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develo45 √ pment reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 46 √ Equal Opportunity Non discrimination GRI 406: Non 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 27 √ discrimination 68 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics SOCIAL PERFOMANCE Freedom of Association GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 41 √ Association collective bargaining may be at risk. Child Labor GRI 408: Trabajo infantil 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 41, 46 √ Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compul41, 46 √ Compulsory Labor sory labor Human Rights Assessment 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 33 and 46 √ assessments GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures. 40 √ Assessment 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 33, 46 √ clauses or that underwent human rights screening Comunidades locales 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 52 √ GRI 413: Local development programs Communities 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 52 √ communities Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 21 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Nota F √ GRI 416: Customer service categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 40 √ products and services Marketing and Labeling 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 40 √ GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 40 √ Marketing and Labeling labeling 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 27 √ Customer Privacy GRI 418: 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 27 √ Customer Privacy losses of customer data. Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 40 √ Compliance Nota F: Not applicable due to the type of product of our company. Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 69 ANNEX 4 Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate Elawan’s progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Our vision on sustainability protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Governance and compliance model Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Our vision on sustainability rights abuses. Governance and compliance model Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Social Dimension bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Social Dimension compulsory labour. Labour Rights Our vision on sustainability Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Governance and compliance model Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Our vision on sustainability employment and occupation. Governance and compliance model Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental Dimension approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility. Environmental Dimension Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental Dimension environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Economic Dimension 70 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX 5 Scope considered of Elawan and subsidiaries 102-45 Scope consolidation.The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2019 Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Elawan Energy Developments, S.L. Spain Roth Rock Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Parque Eólico Becerril, S.L. Spain Roth Rock Development Services, L.L.C. USA Elawan Energy Developments 1, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Puerto Rico, INC. USA Elawan Energy Developments 2, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind San Juan, Inc. USA Elawan Energy Developments 3, S.L. Spain Punta Lima Holding Co., L.L.C. USA Elawan Energy Developments 4, S.L. Spain Punta Lima Development Services, LLC. USA KONESTICIAL, S.L. Spain TPW Petersburg, LLC USA ERGE Occidente, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind North América, INC. USA Gestamp HC Eólica, S.L. Spain North Búfalo Wind, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Castilla La Mancha, S.L. Spain Pawnee Wind Farm USA ERGE Aragón, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Indiana USA Fotovoltaica Torrijos, S.L. Spain GSQ, LLC USA ERGE Levante, S.L. Spain Gestamp Eólica Brasil, S.A. Brazil Desarrollos Eólicos del Norte, S.L. Spain Eólica Gravatá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil P.E Rondavino S.L. Spain Eólica Pirauá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil P.E Salguero S.L. Spain Gestamp Eólica Jardins, S.A. Brazil CB SE Camapanario Renovable Spain Gestamp Eólica Alvorada, S.A. Brazil Elawan Fotovoltaica Campanario 1, S.L.U. Spain Gestamp Eólica Agreste S.A. Brazil Elawan Fotovoltaica Campanario 2, S.L.U. Spain Macambiras Holdings, S.A. Brazil Elawan Fotovoltaica Campanario 3, S.L.U. Spain Gestamp Eólica Macambira I, S.A. Brazil Elawan Fotovoltaica Campanario 4, S.L.U. Spain Gestamp Eólica Macambira II, S.A. Brazil Elawan Fotovoltaica Campanario 5, S.L.U. Spain Eólica Pedra do Reino V, S.A. Brazil Elawan Eólica Frontones, S.L.U. Spain Lagoa dos Ventos Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Elawan Eólica Derramador, S.L.U. Spain Deltrade 67 Propiertary Limited South Africa Elawan Eólica Fuente Álamo, S.L.U. Spain Gestamp Wind Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Elawan Fotovoltaica Escuderos 1, S.L.U. Spain Modderfontein Wind Energy Project (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Elawan Fotovoltaica Escuderos 2, S.L.U. Spain Copperton Wind Farm (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Elawan Fotovoltaica Escuderos 3, S.L.U. Spain Beyçelik Gestamp Yenilenebir Enerji Uretim, A.S. Turkey Elawan Fotovoltaica Escuderos 4, S.L.U. Spain Sabas Elektrik Uretim, A.S. Turkey Elawan Fotovoltaica Escuderos 5, S.L.U. Spain BAK Enerji Üretimi A.Ş. Turkey P.E. Monte Becerril, S.L. Spain YGT Elektrik Üretim SAN. VE TİC. LTD. ŞTİ. Turkey E.F. Manzanares, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Ruzgar Enerjisi Limited. (antes Gestamp Ruzgar Turkey Enerjisi, Ltd.) E.F. Brazatortas 1, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Wallonie, S.A. (antes Gestamp Wallonie, S.A.) Belgium E.F. Brazatortas 2, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Feluy, S.A. (antes Gestamp Wind Feluy, S.A.) Belgium P. E. Miravete, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Beaumont, S.A. (antes Gestamp Wind Beaumont, S.A.) Belgium E. F. Belinchón 1, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Hannut, S.A. (antes Gestamp Wind Hannut, S.A.) Belgium E. F. Belinchón 2, S.L.U. Spain New Wind S.P.R.L. Belgium E. F. Belinchón 3, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Salazine, S.A. Belgium P. E. Iniesta, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy Polska sp z.o.o (antes Gestamp Eólica Polska sp z.o.o.) Poland Elawan Energy Tordesillas 1, S.L.U. Spain Farma Wiatrowa Szerzawy Sp. z o. o. (antes Gestamp Wind 10 sp zoo) Poland Elawan Energy Tordesillas 2, S.L.U. Spain Farma Wiatrowa Kleby Sp. zoo Poland Elawan Energy Tordesillas 3, S.L.U. Spain Farma Wiatrowa Bukówiec Górny Sp. zoo Poland Elawan Energy Tordesillas 4, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Solar Polska Sp. z o. o. (antes Gestamp Wind 13 sp zoo) Poland Elawan Energy Olmedo 1, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Wind 14 sp zoo (antes Gestamp Wind 14 sp zoo) Poland Elawan Energy Olmedo 2, S.L.U. Spain L.L.C. Elawan Power Russia Elawan Energy Olmedo 3, S.L.U. Spain Elawan Energy France, S.A.S. France Elawan Energy Valdecarretas, S.L.U. Spain Gournay PV, S.A.S. France Elawan Energy Torrijos 220, S.L.U. Spain Hidroeléctrica de Tacotan, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Gestamp Wind Energy North América, INC. USA Hidroeléctrica de Trigomil, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Spring Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. USA Tacotán Trigomil Servicios SA de CV Mexico Nebraska Wind, I, LLC. USA Elawan Energy México, S.A. de C.V. (antes Gestamp Eólica México, Mexico S.A. de C.V.) Flat Water Holdings, L.L.C. USA Eólica Huimilpan, S.A.P.I de C.V. Mexico Flat Water Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Elawan Energy Romania S.R.L. (antes Gestamp Eólica Dacia, S.R.L.) Romania Flat Water Development Services, L.L.C. USA Elawan Wind Berezeni, S.R.L. (antes Gestamp Eólica Berezeni S.R.L.) Romania Roth Rock Holdings, L.L.C. USA Vientos S.R.L. Romania Sustainability Report 2019 elawan energy 71 www.elawan.com
