2019 ANNUAL REPORT 4 EDITO 6 2019 AT A GLANCE 8 FOCUS ON LIFE AT OUR SITES IN 2019 10 AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS bioMérieux, a family commitment to combat 11 CLINICAL APPLICATIONS n Diagnostic testing: instrumental in combating infectious diseases bioMérieux is first and foremost a human and scientific antimicrobial resistance adventure that began more than 55 years ago. n An extensive range of solutions to fight sepsis n A game changer: diagnostic tests for early risk Our expertise and our commitment to expand assessment of acute kidney injury (AKI) the frontiers of knowledge in biology are rooted in n Expanding our portfolio for the diagnosis of an entrepreneurial story that has been ongoing for more respiratory infections than a century. In 1897, Marcel Mérieux, who had studied under 23 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS n Diagnostic tests, essential for pharmaceutical product quality Louis Pasteur, founded his laboratory in Lyon where he developed the first anti-tetanus sera. From the very beginning, the Institut Mérieux laid the groundwork for a bio-industrial organization that would make its mark on n Diagnostics for food safety both vaccinology and later on the diagnosis of infectious diseases on a global scale. 30 CLOSE TO OUR CUSTOMERS WITH A RANGE OF SERVICES bioMérieux, headquartered in Marcy l’Étoile, France, was created in 1963 by Alain Mérieux and today employs nearly 12,000 people. 32 A TRADITION OF OPEN INNOVATION The Company specializes in providing in vitro diagnostic solutions that determine the source of a disease or 38 contamination to improve patient health and ensure CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY consumer safety. Our products are mainly used in n Committed to being a socially responsible company the clinical field for diagnosing infectious diseases, and with a humanist vision in the industrial field for the detection of microorganisms n Committed to people in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. n Committed to our workforce bioMérieux is present in 44 countries and serves more n Committed to respecting the environment than 160 countries with the support of a large network n Committed to ethics in business of distributors. Over 90% of sales are generated internationally. 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL TABLES n Corporate Governance Since 2014, Alexandre Mérieux, the great-grandson of Marcel, has been at the helm of this family-owned company as Chief Executive Officer. In December 2017, he was appointed Chairman and CEO by the Board of n Key figures Directors. n Financial tables n The bioMérieux share 74 bioMérieux is listed on the Euronext Paris stock market. GLOSSARY & REFERENCES (Symbol: BIM ISIN: FR0010096479). Website: www.biomerieux.com PIONEERING DIAGNOSTICS TO ADDRESS PUBLIC HEALTH CHALLENGES ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE SEPSIS EMERGING PATHOGENS SUPPORT • 21 hours of training per employee THE SUCCESS AND • Access to training rate: 89% PROTECTING CONSUMER HEALTH COMMITMENT OF • 7.3% internal mobility OUR WORKFORCE • Employee share ownership plan • Increase in sales: +8% CAGR 2016-2019 ACHIEVE RESULTS • Net income: +15% CAGR 2016-2019 HUMAN THAT GUARANTEE • Free cash flow: €150 million in 2019 • 12,000 employees OUR INDEPENDENCE • Dividends: +14% (2016-2019) • 44 countries • Diversity and multiculturalism STRENGTHEN • Open innovation (joint research laboratories, FINANCIAL CLINICIANS PHARMA INDUSTRY THE MEDICAL public/private partnerships) • Stable family shareholder structure BIOTECH • COSMETICS AND ECONOMIC • Product quality and product safety • Mutual trust with financial partners (investors and banks) VALUE OF • Medical-economic studies: the positive impact DIAGNOSTICS of diagnostics on health systems • Solid cash flow generation IN INNOVATION BIOLOGISTS • HOSPITALS • Local purchasing policies • 14% of sales LABORATORIES OUR VALUE SUSTAIN • 1,800 employees OUR RESOURCES AND DEVELOP • 9 sites certified OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 • 18 sites CREATION OUR INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY • Extensive industrial know-how • Responsible purchasing commitment to our suppliers INDUSTRIAL • 18 bio-industrial sites • < 4,000 employees • 9 sites certified ISO 14001 REDUCE OUR • < 12,000 suppliers • 2020 targets exceeded with 20% reduction in energy & water ENVIRONMENTAL • Policy of sustained investments consumption and greenhouse gas emissions FOOTPRINT ENVIRONMENTAL • Product eco-design approach • Careful, responsible consumption of natural resources and primary raw materials HEALTH OF PATIENTS AGRI-FOOD • 70 agreements in 5 years with labour unions in France • 658,000 m3 water • 225 GWh energy, AND CONSUMERS INDUSTRY COMMITTED TO • Code of Conduct training for all employees • Responsible tax policy consistent with local business activity including 14% renewable energy PEOPLE AND LOCAL • bioMérieux employee involvement in local communities • 68 kt CO2e COMMUNITIES • 3.5%o of sales allocated to philanthropy, CORPORATE CULTURE including the Mérieux Foundation and • Humanist corporate commitment Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux • Quality social dialogue • Global Code of Conduct • Ties to local stakeholders 4 GENERATIONS DEDICATED TO PUBLIC HEALTH A FAMILY COMPANY WITH A LONG TERM VISION 1897 Marcel Mérieux founds 1963 Alain Mérieux 2015 Alexandre Mérieux the Institut Mérieux founds bioMérieux becomes CEO and then Chairman and CEO in 2017 1894 Marcel Mérieux studies with Louis Pasteur 1937 Dr Charles Mérieux take up the reins 2 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 3 EDITO all continents, confirming the importance of this approach. In the field of immunoassays, we are a specialist player and invest in the development of high medical value tests that enrich our pipeline of innovations, in particular for the VIDAS® line and in the expansion of this activity with our increased shareholding in Hybiome. This Chinese company develops products that complement those of bioMérieux, thus consolidating our presence in China. Finally, in the field of industrial microbiology, the growth of our business has been boosted Alexandre Mérieux by the acquisition of Invisible Sentinel in 2019, an American start-up specialized in tests for the quality control of beverages. Chairman and CEO Since its foundation more than 55 years ago, bioMérieux has developed extensive expertise in infectious disease diagnostics to address major health challenges such as antimicrobial resistance, sepsis and respiratory infections. We are very proud that this expertise has been recognized. For example, in 2019, we were selected to be a key supplier in a tender process organized by the Fleming Fund, a UK aid investment program to tackle antimicrobial resistance in resource-limited countries. At bioMérieux, we take a socially responsible approach to our business activities. In step with our company’s development, we organize initiatives to promote awareness, education and prevention among healthcare professionals in order to support better patient care. We also Our strategic choices for diagnostic solutions that address major healthcare challenges uphold our commitments as a socially-responsible company by sponsoring initiatives in and our balanced international presence have a clear impact, reflected in the strong sales solidarity with communities in the countries where we operate, and by supporting the momentum that we have recorded for several years now. In 2019, bioMérieux generated Mérieux Foundation and the Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, two independent sales of €2,675 million, representing growth of 7.2%, with contributive operating income family foundations that fight infectious diseases in developing countries. before non-recurring items reaching €389 million in line with the targets set by the Company. These actions embody our humanist culture and the sense of commitment that drives all bioMérieux employees. This mindset is enriched by the importance we place on creating a These results confirm our place among the major in vitro diagnostics players worldwide and working environment that fosters professional development. We weigh the impact of this strengthen our positioning in this market. approach on a daily basis, particularly in emergency situations such as the COVID-19 outbreak in late 2019. Patient health and consumer safety are at the heart of bioMérieux was mobilized as early as January 2020 to develop a complementary diagnostic our concerns. strategy to help healthcare professionals fight this epidemic. Thanks to the remarkable commitment of our teams, two molecular biology tests, in the ARGENE® and BIOFIRE® By developing increasingly rapid and accurate diagnostic tests, we contribute to improving ranges, were made available to laboratories in March and SARS-CoV-2 was included in the patient management while containing healthcare costs. We also apply our expertise at BIOFIRE® syndromic Respiratory panel in May. We have validated the performance of the service of the agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries to control the 2 serology tests, VIDAS®anti-SARS-CoV-2, for the detection of antibodies in people who microbiological quality of their products. have been exposed to the virus. In 2019, we strengthened our leadership position in the field of microbiology with our Building on our many strengths and despite the global uncertainty created by the COVID-19 complete VITEK® range for automated microbial identification and antibiotic susceptibility pandemic, we intend to pursue bioMérieux’s growth and, now more than ever, to serve our testing and our BACT/ALERT® blood culture systems. In the field of molecular biology, the public health mission – both in the short term to meet the needs of healthcare professionals innovative syndromic approach to diagnostics provided by our BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® range as they manage this pandemic, and in the long term by continuing to expand our diagnostic continued its robust growth. It is being adopted by an increasing number of laboratories on testing portfolio to better satisfy the needs of our customers worldwide. 4 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 5 BIOFIRE® BIOMÉRIEUX EPISEQ® CS ACQUISITIONS PRODUCT IN THE FIELD OF AND BLOOD CULTURE Expansion of the BIOMÉRIEUX IMMUNOASSAYS NEWS IDENTIFICATION 2 EPISEQ® Next Generation HYBIOME INVESTMENTS (BCID2) PANEL Sequencing (NGS) range with Submission for FDA clearance of the launch of the online service. (SUZHOU, CHINA) Its aim is to help laboratory bioMérieux increased its the new generation of the Blood hospitals in charge of infection shareholding in this manufacturer Culture Identification Panel, control to identify infectious of automated immunoassay tests which includes several additional outbreaks and to monitor pathogens and an expanded list for hospitals, from 54 to 67%. resistance genes in order to of antimicrobial resistance genes. combat healthcare-associated ETEST® In 2020, this panel received FDA clearance and was CE marked. infections (HAI). IN THE FIELD OF IN THE FIELD OF FDA clearance for 4 new tests to INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGY determine Minimum Inhibitory GAMME R-GENE® NEPHROCHECK® MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL Concentration (MIC) for 4 new SPECIFIC DIAGNOSTICS Launch of HSV1&2 VZV R-GENE®, antibiotics: This test for the early risk HSV1 HSV2 R-GENE® and INIVISIBLE SENTINEL (MOUNTAIN VIEW, ETEST® Meropenem/Vaborbactam, assessment of acute kidney injury (PHILADELPHIA, CALIFORNIA, USA) VZV R-GENE® kits for the detection ETEST® Imipenem/Relebactam, was included in medical society ETEST® Eravacycline and of certain herpes types and PENNSYLVANIA, USA) bioMérieux acquired a minority consensus guidelines: the Varicella Zoster Virus. The VERIFLOW® platform, share in the capital of this company ETEST® Telavancin. ERAS® Cardiac Surgery and The tests meet the needs of an innovative molecular biology specialized in faster analysis of These tests are critical to fighting the Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative immunocompromized patients solution for the detection of antibiotic susceptibility tests. antimicrobial resistance because (ADQI). and transplant recipients, for pathogens and spoilage they make it possible to choose whom these infections are organisms in food and beverages, the most effective antibiotic and BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® particularly serious. the optimal dose to prescribe. in particular in wine and beer. AND FAN® PLUS They reinforce the ARGENE® Clearance from the Chinese molecular biology range. authorities (National Medical Products Administration, or AT A GLANCE NMPA) for resin-based FAN® Plus blood culture bottles and for the BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® PARTNERSHIPS system. BAXTER (UNITED STATES) CIDRAP (UNITED STATES) Collaboration agreement to Cooperation agreement with SITE NEWS improve the identification and the Center for Infectious Disease treatment of acute kidney injury. Research and Policy (CIDRAP) at the University of Minnesota by R&D AND PRODUCTION VALUE-DX (EUROPE) which bioMérieux will provide Coordination of a European support to initiatives that * IN FRANCE * IN CHINA public-private partnership, with promote better management of n Construction of a new facility n Laying of the first stone for the University of Antwerp and prescribing antibiotics. for immunoassay R&D; increase the new facility in Suzhou. the Wellcome Trust, to fight in VIDAS® reagent production antimicrobial resistance through CHILDREN’S MEDICAL CENTER capacity at Marcy l’Étoile. * IN THE UNITED STATES diagnostic testing. IN SHANGHAI (CHINA) n Expansion of the Craponne site. n Increase in the production Launch of a new joint research n Increase in GENE-UP® reagent capacity of the BIOFIRE® range laboratory at the Children’s capacity at Grenoble. in Salt Lake City. Medical Center in Shanghai, with n New packaging line for a study of the NEPHROCHECK® BACT/ALERT® reagents in test in pediatric heart surgery. Durham. 6 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 7 EMEA * FRANCE 20 years of the International Distribution Center (IDC), bioMérieux’s largest distribution platform, located in Saint Vulbas EMEA * RUSSIA EMEA * Customer seminar FRANCE Top Employer 2020 certification FO C US O N AMERICAS LIFE AT OUR SITES Top Employer 2020 certification IN 2019 AMERICAS EMEA * MIDDLE EAST 10th anniversary of ASIA PACIFIC SAINT-LOUIS the United Arab Emirates CHINA 30th anniversary of subsidiary Top Employer certification bioMérieux is present in the acquisition of Vitek renewed in 2020 Systems, thanks to which 44 countries through bioMérieux developed 18 bio-industrial sites, the VITEK® range for automated bacterial 18 R&D centers, subsidiaries identification and antibiotic EMEA * and offices. Across all continents, susceptibility testing EGYPT our 12,000 employees Inauguration of contribute to fulfilling our public the bioMérieux subsidiary in Cairo, Egypt health mission while respecting the humanist values upheld by EMEA * the Mérieux family. In 2019, KENYA our teams celebrated important Inauguration of the new inaugurations and anniversaries in bioMérieux office in Nairobi, Kenya the history of bioMérieux. EMEA * Our commitment to our employees IVORY COAST Opening of a new training was also recognized by several center in Abidjan for Top Employer awards. healthcare professionals to learn more about in vitro diagnostics and how to use bioMérieux systems and EMEA * tests SOUTH AFRICA Top Employer 2020 * Europe, Middle East, Africa. certification 8 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 9 AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS In guiding the Company’s development, bioMérieux has always focused on meeting healthcare challenges related to infectious diseases all over the world. With over 90% of sales outside of France today, the scope of our activity is geographically balanced. AMERICAS REGION SALES €1,200 GROWTH MILLION + 7.7 %* EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, CLINICAL SALES AFRICA (EMEA) NORTH AMERICA: 39% REGION SALES LATIN AMERICA: 6% 45% 36% BIOMÉRIEUX CONSOLIDATED SALES IN 2019 = €2.7 BILLION APPLICATIONS 19% As a world leader of in vitro diagnostics, bioMérieux provides solutions that determine SALES €961 the source of disease. Our company is a global leader in the field of microbiology, a specialist in immunoassays, and a pioneer and leader in molecular syndromic diagnostics. We mobilize ASIA PACIFIC MILLION our expertise to address major public health challenges, and we place the fight against REGION antimicrobial resistance at the heart of our public health mission. SALES €514 GROWTH GROWTH MILLION + 12.1% * + 4.4% * * Year to year, at constant exchange rates and scope. 10 A N T IMICRO B IA L RESISTA N CE “Our work directly supports patients. As the mother of a * A public health priority child who suffered MARK MILLER from ear infections, I know the rational use 700,000 deaths annually EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT Medical Affairs • bioMérieux worldwide and an estimated of antibiotics is key.” 10 million deaths per year Emily by 2050 (1) “Diagnostic tests Internal Communication play a major role in A potential Manager the fight against $100 trillion cost antimicrobial resistance.” for the global economy (1) They make it possible to: CLINICAL APPLICATIONS An annual decrease in global GDP* • Confirm that the infection is bacterial and of between identify the causative pathogen to ensure opti1.1% and 3.8% mal patient outcomes and avoid unnecessary DIAGNOSTIC TESTING: antibiotic use; by 2050 (2) • Determine the pathogen’s resistance profile to select the most appropriate treatment, limit use of broad-spectrum antibiotics and avoid adverse INSTRUMENTAL IN COMBATING * A bioMérieux priority side effects; • Monitor the patient’s condition in order to adapt treatment duration to each individual and ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE discontinue antibiotics as soon as possible; • Screen for and prevent spread of MDRO (multi80% of sales drug resistance organisms). Diagnostic tests are also valuable tools for the in clinical applications are from products surveillance of resistance to antibiotics. They that contribute, either directly or are used to monitor disease-causing agents and indirectly, to the fight against antimicrobial resistance at the local, regional and Antimicrobial resistance has been recognized as a major antimicrobial resistance global levels, which is critical to understand the extent of resistance and to develop an adequate global public health threat by international organizations. response. Awareness of the epidemiology of As a world leader of in vitro diagnostics, we have been 75% of R&D investments antimicrobial resistance determines the actions required to keep it under control. bioMérieux is active in the field of infectious diseases for more than are dedicated to antimicrobial resistance the sole private sponsor of the Global Point 55 years, and we have made the fight against antimicrobial Prevalence Survey (GLOBAL-PPS), the largest study of antibiotic use and antimicrobial resistance in resistance a priority. The Company offers a unique and hospitals conducted on a global scale. It aims to comprehensive range of diagnostic solutions that support improve practices and slow the phenomenon of resistance (see page 43). the responsible use of antibiotics. * Gross Domestic Product. 12 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 13 l l l ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE 4 NEW ETEST® TO IMPROVE BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® THE APPROPRIATE USE OF ANTIBIOTICS BLOOD CULTURE IDENTIFICATION 2 PANEL In 2019, bioMérieux launched four new ETEST® products SUBMITTED FOR FDA CLEARANCE in the United States with 510(k) clearance from the US Food The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® BCID2 Panel includes several and Drug Administration (FDA). These tests determine additional pathogens and an expanded list of antimicrobial an antibiotic’s Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC); resistance genes compared to the initial panel, which has ETEST® Meropenem/Vaborbactam, ETEST® Imipenem/ been available since 2013. Relebactam, ETEST® Eravacycline and ETEST® Telavancin. Launched on the market at the same time as these new It identifies 26 bacteria, 7 yeasts, and 10 antimicrobial antibiotics, the tests are an effective guide for clinicians resistance genes, including 4 classes of carbapenemases, in their choice of an appropriate, personalized treatment an MCR-1 gene, extended-spectrum beta-lactamases, for patients whose condition is of concern and for whom emerging pathogens such as Candida auris, and new the arrival on the market of a new compound could be a targets to more accurately identify methicillin-resistant novel therapeutic option. Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Also in 2019, bioMérieux made its new ETEST® Piperacillin/ This new panel is compatible with the FILMARRAY® 2.0 Tazobactam available in all its markets. and FILMARRAY® TORCH systems. In 2020 this panel received FDA clearance and was CE marked. The ETEST® range plays a critical role in the fight against antimicrobial resistance because it contributes to preserving the efficacy of antibiotics and to preventing antimicrobial resistance. These tests are particularly well-adapted to determining the necessary Minimum Inhibitory Concentration of an antibiotic to achieve effective treatment outcomes in the most challenging cases. The manual MIC gradient strip ETEST® provides reliable and accurate large-scale MIC determination for many new and existing antibiotics and is used in complement to VITEK® 2 in challenging situations. VITEK® 2 is an autoCHRISTINE GINOCCHIO mated antibiotic susceptibility testing system enabling PhD MT (ASCP) Medical Affairs • bioMérieux both identification and susceptibility testing for the vast majority of microorganisms (more than 400). Results are delivered within hours. The combination of manual and BIOMÉRIEUX TEAMS UP WITH THE FLEMING FUND TO TACKLE automated methods meets the needs of microbiologists, “Rapid identification of ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE IN RESOURCE-LIMITED COUNTRIES which may vary due to geographical and epidemiological bloodstream infections and factors. detection of antimicrobial bioMérieux was selected to be the principal partner in the pathogen identification and susceptibility testing, and with resistance genes are more tender process by the Fleming Fund, a £265 million UK aid MYLA® software for data processing. The laboratory analyses BIOMÉRIEUX EPISEQ® CS, important than ever for hospitals investment to help resource-limited countries tackle antimiwill contribute to establishing robust AMR surveillance A NEW SOLUTION TO HELP FIGHT and their patients. Thanks to the crobial resistance. The Company was chosen by the Fleming systems, providing pathogen resistance trends, as well as expanded BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Fund based on the outstanding performance of its diagnostic critical individual patient results. This information should HEALTHCARE-ASSOCIATED INFECTIONS BCID2 Panel and the syndromic solutions, its organizational capacity in the targeted countries improve treatment for patients and contribute to development (HAI) and its extensive expertise in training of health professionals, of effective national AMR policies. Moreover, the data collected approach, a single, comprehensive Healthcare-associated infections (HAI) affect many in the fields of microbiology and AMR. by national laboratories will improve the understanding of the test will detect the pathogens and extent of the phenomenon of resistance and how it spreads, hospital wards and are increasingly difficult to target bioMérieux will be locally active in 18 out of the 24 countries due to the emergence of multi-drug resistant bacteria. key associated antibiotic as well as the geographic areas where antimicrobial resistance taking part in the program in Africa and Asia Pacific. In each poses the greatest risk. Efforts to fight these infections represent a significant cost resistance markers most country, over the next three years, the Company will equip for hospitals. With the innovative BIOMÉRIEUX EPISEQ® CS frequently responsible for these one clinical reference laboratory and one veterinary reference Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) online solution launched laboratory with the VITEK® MS and VITEK® 2 systems for infections, enabling prescription of in 2019, hospital laboratories in charge of infection control are able to identify infectious outbreaks and monitor more targeted, effective resistance genes. It covers a broad spectrum of the treatment.” 13 bacterial species most commonly responsible for healthcare-associated infections worldwide. 14 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 15 * Esepsis ven though it is often under-recognized, is one of the leading causes of “I optimize our death worldwide and the main cause customers’ knowledge of death from infection. of our solutions, which Since 2017, it has been recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO) empowers them to as a Global Health Priority. combat complex challenges such as JULIEN TEXTORIS sepsis and antibiotic MD, PhD resistance.” A study published recently in Consultant in anesthesiology & intensive care at Edouard-Herriot Hospital, Lyon, France Medical Affairs • bioMérieux The Lancet (3) demonstrated that sepsis Eric remains a major concern despite a decrease in its incidence and mortality “Sepsis is a medical emergency, Customer Education between 1990 and 2017: when every minute counts. However, because the clinical signs and symptoms are not specific, it is Nearly 49 million often diagnosed too late. CLINICAL APPLICATIONS cases of sepsis were recorded worldwide Recognizing sepsis at an early in 2017 stage is essential, before it gets worse, especially because there is AN EXTENSIVE RANGE Sepsis caused no specific treatment that is effective against sepsis. If it is not 11 million deaths, recognized early enough and OF SOLUTIONS TO FIGHT SEPSIS or nearly 20% of deaths worldwide treated rapidly, sepsis can cause in 2017 septic shock with multiple organ failure, that too often leads to Sepsis incidence and mortality vary the patient’s death. considerably from one region to another, In this context, diagnostics plays with resource-limited countries being particularly impacted. a critical role: the sooner sepsis is diagnosed, the greater the likelihood of giving the patient the right Sepsis is a serious infection associated with organ Sepsis may begin with the appearance of non-specific therapy to treat the infection, failure, caused when the body’s immune system signs that are cause for alarm, such as: * Eandarlyrapid mounts an acute response to the infection, and in avoiding organ failure and increasing 1 confusion 2 shortness of breath 3 rapid heart rate recognition of the signs of sepsis many cases, it may rapidly lead to death. 4 fever and shivering 5 extreme fatigue 6 clammy the patient’s chances of survival.” diagnosis are essential to begin It is a life-threatening condition following a common skin. effective antibiotic treatment as quickly infection, such as respiratory, gastrointestinal and as possible. Any delay in starting Rapidly recognizing the symptoms and having a urinary infections as well as skin and would infections. appropriate treatment is associated diagnostic test can save lives! with increased mortality While sepsis may affect people of all ages, the risk is higher for some patient groups: immunocompromized patients, children under one year old, adults over the age of 60, and patients compromized by chronic illness. 16 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 17 l l l SEPSIS “I support bioMérieux offers the most extensive range of solutions on the market for sepsis diagnostics and management, combining immunoassay, microbiology and molecular biology tests. right-first-time initiatives to ensure that our manufacturing systems are consistent What 2 for the production of the Sepsis Solution does TEST, ANALYZE AND MONITOR THE BODY’S RESPONSE WITH: life-saving solutions.” 1 John VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ test to identify IDENTIFY THE INFECTIOUS AGENT AND patients presenting a severe infection to ensure DETERMINE THE APPROPRIATE ANTIBIOTIC the efficacy of antibiotic treatment (and to stop Manufacturing Compliance TREATMENT WITH: antibiotics as soon as possible). NEPHROCHECK® test to identify patients at risk BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® panels for the rapid for kidney injury, so that preventive measures identification of a viral or bacterial infection may be taken. before it becomes generalized in critically CLINICAL APPLICATIONS ill patients. A GAME CHANGER: 3 BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Blood Culture Identification Panel to identify 27 targets and OPTIMIZE LABORATORY WORKFLOWS antibiotic resistance markers in samples, WITH: DIAGNOSTIC TESTS FOR EARLY RISK in 1 hour. Innovative BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® system, Lab Consulting solutions, which are designed to the first fully-automated, scalable blood culture reduce the time required for blood culture ASSESSMENT OF ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY instrument, reducing by 30% the time required bottles to arrive at the laboratory. for the detection of microorganisms in patient Solutions are based on the analysis of sample blood samples. flows in the laboratory to suggest organizational adjustments that improve operational efficiency (AKI) Conventional and chromogenic culture media and time-to-results. in the CHROMID® line to detect and identify a wide variety of bacteria that may cause sepsis. MYLA® software to process microbiology data and ensure connectivity to several analysis  ITEK® MS mass spectrometry system to V instruments. Sepsis is an immune-reaction to infection that can rapidly identify the responsible pathogen based result in the rapid deterioration of the patient’s on a positive blood culture reported by general condition leading to possible organ failure. BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO®. AKI is a decrease in kidney function occurring over a period of hours or days (4). It may be caused by When sepsis is associated with AKI, the risk of BIOMÉRIEUX SUPPORTS THE WORK mortality for the patient doubles (5). Patients with VITEK® 2 automated identification and direct injury to the kidney, by nephrotoxic drugs, susceptibility testing system. OF THE GLOBAL SEPSIS ALLIANCE as a complication of a concomitant disease, or as early stages of AKI may be managed by their bioMérieux is a member of the Global Sepsis a result of an infection, such as sepsis. This loss of physician to help them preserve as much renal  TEST® manual antibiotic susceptibility E Alliance (GSA), a not-for-profit organization function as possible. This stage may be reversible. testing range. renal function leads to a decrease in blood filtering, dedicated to building sepsis awareness, which that, if left untreated, may cause severe In patients with severe stages of AKI, their capacity has clearly identified diagnosis as “one of the to filtrate or purify blood is damaged, as a result complications or even death. most effective weapons” to combat sepsis. The they may require more invasive treatment, such as GSA supports healthcare professionals across the globe to improve care for patients with sepsis, dialysis (6). Therefore, early risk assessment of AKI aiming for a 20% reduction in the incidence of is critical to establish optimized management for sepsis by 2020. bioMérieux takes part in World patients (7, 8). Sepsis Day, organized by the GSA on September 13 each year to help raise public awareness. 18 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 19 l l l ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY “Every day I work with NEPHROCHECK® TEST scientists to ensure INCLUDED IN GUIDELINES FROM LEADING our antimicrobial tests MEDICAL ORGANIZATIONS are developed to In the second quarter of 2018, the NEPHROCHECK® biomarkers were included in guidelines issued by the provide fast, accurate Society for Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS® diagnostic results to Cardiac) and by the international organization Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative (ADQI), which includes over patients.” 150 specialists of diagnostics and care for patients with AKI and associated diseases requiring dialysis. Kelsey In 2019, the NEPHROCHECK® test (TIMP-2 and IGFBP-7) was included in the “Guidelines for Perioperative Care in Technology Transfer Lead, Cardiac Surgery” published by the ERAS® Cardiac Society. Industrialization NEPHROCHECK®, These guidelines make recommendations for the use of biomarkers, such as the NEPHROCHECK® test, after A HIGH MEDICAL VALUE PREDICTIVE TEST cardiac surgery for early detection of kidney stress, In April 2018, bioMérieux acquired Astute Medical, a followed by appropriately targeted interventions to CLINICAL APPLICATIONS California-based company that developed and produced avoid AKI (11). the NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk assessment The NEPHROCHECK® test has been used in intensive care EXPANDING OUR PORTFOLIO of acute kidney injury (AKI). This high medical value preunits in the United States and in 2019, was introduced in dictive test, which is FDA-cleared and CE-marked, uses several countries in Europe and Latin America and in India. urinary biomarkers to indicate kidney stress in advance of AKI. The acquisition is a continuation of the partnership FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF RESPIRATORY formed between Astute Medical and bioMérieux in 2015, PARTNERSHIP WITH BAXTER under which Astute Medical granted bioMérieux a license In March 2019, bioMérieux and Baxter International Inc., to develop and market the NEPHROCHECK® test on the a global leader in acute care, announced a collaboration INFECTIONS VIDAS® automated immunoassay system. agreement to develop future biomarkers to rapidly identify In 2019, the test was featured in presentations at several and inform treatment of acute kidney injury. conferences internationally and in key publications: n An article co-authored by several experts was published *  pper respiratory tract infections are U the leading cause of all disease worldwide, in Critical Care, demonstrating the value of NEPHROCHECK® for use in intensive care (9). including all pathologies, infectious and n The Journal of Medical Economics published the first non-infectious combined (12). budget impact model of AKI using the NEPHROCHECK® biomarker (10). MARK MILLER * L(including ower respiratory tract infections pneumonia) are responsible for n Scientific posters about an ongoing study of AKI and EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT Respiratory infections are both nearly 3 million deaths per year. They are sepsis were presented during the International Vicenza Medical Affairs • bioMérieux extremely common and potentially the leading cause of death from infectious Course on Acute Kidney Injury and Continuous Renal Replacement Therapies (Italy) and Kidney Week (United serious. They are a major public diseases worldwide (13) and one of the primary States). “As a pioneer in diagnostics, health concern worldwide. reasons for hospitalization in Europe and the United States (14). we are looking forward to One of the priority challenges for Pneumonia is the leading infectious cause collaborating with Baxter to these infections is reducing of death in children (15). address the important challenges in critical care medicine such as AKI. In order to accomplish this, the inappropriate use of antibiotics, which are ineffective against viruses. * Dthese iagnostic tests are essential to combat serious infections and limit the team at recently-acquired Diagnostic tests play therefore the unnecessary and inappropriate use of antibiotics in order to avoid the side effects Astute Medical is committed to a critical role in ensuring that these associated with their use and to slow the development of additional infections are treated effectively and even prevent the emergence of high medical value biomarkers with the appropriate molecule. drug-resistant bacteria. for improved patient care.” 20 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 21 l l l RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS To fight against BIOMÉRIEUX MOBILIZED TO RESPOND TO these respiratory THE COVID-19 EMERGENCY infections, bioMérieux As soon as the new coronavirus appeared in late 2019 in China, bioMérieux’s research teams immediately started to develop provides a comprehensive complementary diagnostic tests for the detection of the product offering with: SARS-CoV-2 virus responsible for COVID-19. Given the rapid, global spread of the epidemic, diagnostic tests are essential to prevent and limit the number of infections. In the face of BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® molecular this emergency, bioMérieux chose to develop complementary approaches for the specific diagnosis of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, biology solutions based on its manual and automated molecular biology PCR The Respiratory Panel simultaneously tests for solutions: 17 viruses and 3 bacteria that cause respiratory n a real-time PCR test, part of the ARGENE® range, that can be infections. It was expanded with the Respiratory 2 (RP2) and Respiratory 2 plus (RP2plus) Panels, used to test a large number of patient samples simultaneously; which simultaneously test for 21 and 22 pathogens n an automated real-time PCR test based on the BIOFIRE® respectively, in just 45 minutes. The Respiratory EZ FILMARRAY® 2.0 and TORCH technology, which can be used (RP EZ) Panel detects 11 viruses and 3 bacteria. for the individual diagnosis of a patient in an emergency setting. INDUSTRIAL It is CLIA-waived (for use outside of clinical This test was developed in partnership with the US Department laboratories) and is available only in of Defense within the scope of the Next Generation Diagnostic the United States. Regarding the Pneumonia System program, and will also be available in other countries and Pneumonia plus Panels: the first identifies that need it, subject to obtaining marketing authorization 33 targets (18 bacteria, 8 viruses and from the relevant regulatory authorities; 7 antimicrobial resistance genes), while n the expanded BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel, APPLICATIONS the second includes the same targets, updated to include the detection of SARS-CoV-2, in addition as well as the MERS-CoV* emergent virus. to the 21 pathogens that most frequently cause respiratory infections, with detection in approximately 45 minutes. The VIDAS® B∙R∙A∙H∙M∙S PCT™ test For patients showing signs of a respiratory infection, the measures procalcitonin (PCT) levels to optimize existing BIOFIRE® Pneumonia and Respiratory Panels can be the use of antibiotics for the treatment of lower used to test for the 20 other pathogens that cause this type tract respiratory infections, in order to better of infection. They are useful to rule out common causes of differentiate between viral and bacterial respiratory infection other than Covid-19, in order to optimize infections. It thus avoids the inappropriate and the diagnostic strategy for this new coronavirus. unnecessary use of antibiotics and helps monitor bioMérieux strengthened its leadership position in industrial microbiology in 2019. The Company the patient’s response to therapy in order to n In addition, bioMérieux has launched a development project of VIDAS® serological tests to detect the immune response offers the most extensive range of solutions in this field, with both manual and automated personalize treatment duration and stop antibiotic treatment without risk, as soon as possible. to SARS-CoV-2 infection. solutions, providing rapid and reliable results for companies in the food, biopharmaceutical PCT is also a prognostic marker for sepsis, We have set up an accelerated development process for these and cosmetic industries. Our solutions cover all stages of analysis, from sample preparation supporting the rapid management of appropriate tests so they can be launched as quickly as possible. to the final step of microorganism identification. patient care in the event of this serious illness (16). CHROMID® chromogenic culture media for the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, The site presents the production value Staphylococcus aureus and methicillin-resistant DR HENRIQUETA PEREIRA NEW chains and the solutions from bioMérieux Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). WEBSITE corresponding to each step for different DIRECTOR OF THE GENERAL AND PEDIATRIC CLUSTER market segments in the pharmaceutical The VITEK® range for the identification and AT THE COIMBRA HOSPITAL AND UNIVERSITY CENTER, PORTUGAL and agri-food industries. The new automated antimicrobial susceptibility testing Talking about the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel platform, which replaces existing websites of bacteria and yeast, able to identify the vast Our new “We quickly realized that it is more in 32 countries, was launched in English majority of microorganisms and to deliver bioMérieux Industry website, and will soon be available in 8 languages. sensitivity/resistance results in a few hours. economical to perform the PCR multiplex www.biomerieux-industry.com;; It will be enhanced with new features such The ARGENE® range in molecular biology, test, at every level. In addition to providing has been online since July 2019. as customer testimonials, expert interviews composed of ready-to-use, real-time PCR kits for more information from a smaller sample, on the latest market trends, and scientific the detection of pathogens involved in respiratory it does not require extra work. Pediatricians and regulatory resources, making it tract infections. a valuable educational tool. have started using this test overwhelmingly and, since January 2017, we have been * Middle East syndrome coronavirus. using it 24/7.” 22 ENDONEXTTM A FULL RANGE OF ENDOTOXIN DETECTION “I find solutions for ASSAYS Following the acquisition of Hyglos in 2016, our production teams bioMérieux expanded the ENDONEXTTM range and so that laboratories today offers a complete endotoxin detection solution. With the launch of the BioTekTM can always count on SynergyTM HTX reader and the innovative our products to ENDOZYME® II GO test in 2018, our solution was further enriched in 2019 with: address healthcare n ENDONEXT™ software v1.0, dedicated specifically needs.” to the analysis of bacterial endotoxin testing results; Delphine n a semi-automated solution to further streamline workflows, limit handling time and reduce Industrialization manager the risk of errors. ENDOZYME® II GO RECOGNIZED AS A REFERENCE TEST ENDOZYME® II GO is the latest addition to INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS the bioMérieux ENDONEXTTM range. Launched in 2018, it is based on Recombinant Horseshoe Crab Factor C (rFC). This technology eliminates DIAGNOSTIC TESTS, the need to harvest the blood of horseshoe crabs, a species that is endangered in Asia and protected in the United States. Most currently-marketed endotoxin detection tests continue to use ESSENTIAL FOR PHARMACEUTICAL animal-derived raw materials. Microbiological control for companies in the pharmaENDOZYME® II GO enables endotoxin testing in ceutical industry prevent bacterial contamination of pharmaceutical grade water, injectable drugs and PRODUCT QUALITY other pharmaceutical products. With enhanced medicines by monitoring the quality of the environment reliability, it allows an easy and rapid workflow, and of all products used along the manufacturing and is particularly adapted to raw material and chain, as well as finished products. Such controls are finished product testing. subject to increasingly stringent requirements imposed This innovative technology received a favorable by regulatory agencies, and to growing technological reception from the Europe Union (Directive challenges in connection with the development of 2010/62/EU) and will be included in bioMérieux is a world leader in the field of industrial bioproduction and cellular and gene therapies. the publication of a new chapter in the European Pharmacopoeia (2.6.32) in mid-2020. At the same microbiological control, a vital activity to ensure In the context of stricter regulatory requirements time, the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) the microbiological quality of medicines during production. coupled to the therapeutic revolution, bioMérieux is Chapter <85> on bacterial endotoxin tests is also constantly enriching its product offering. For several being revised so that rFC will be validated as The Company offers the most comprehensive range of years, the Company has been investing in solutions that an official method. solutions to meet the needs of companies in are proving to be key approaches for the bio-pharmaThese decisions represent a key step in the pharmaceutical sector. ceutical industry, the automation and digitization. the market’s adoption of these new tests, which avoid the need to use raw materials derived from animal sources. They mark significant progress since the tests were launched for use by major pharmaceutical companies that implement this technology at their production sites for ethical, environmental and technical reasons. 24 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 25 l l l PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT QUALITY “I work with leading food and pharmaceutical industrial manufacturers to help ensure that what you consume is safe and fit for use.” Johnny Industrial Microbiology Director SAFETY OF PLATELETS WITH BACT/ALERT® INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS Each year, globally around 10 million platelet transfusions are administered to patients. Platelets play an important role in blood coagulation. A transfusion may become necessary for some patients with a DIAGNOSTICS FOR FOOD SAFETY low platelet count due to illnesses such as cancer or leukemia, after major surgery, or following a significant loss of blood. Platelets for transfusion come from carefully selected donors. Even so, routine testing of platelets is essential to monitor the risk of bacterial contamination of platelets, since such contamination is one of the primary causes of transfusionrelated morbidity and mortality. For more than 25 years, bioMérieux has applied bioMérieux works in close collaboration with blood banks and blood transfusion services to guarantee the availability its experience acquired in clinical applications to the field of these vital resources. Our BACT/ALERT® system provides of industrial microbiological control, where the Company automated blood culture solutions as well as internationallyis a world leader today. recognized test protocols to monitor the risk of bacterial contamination. In 2019, the US Food and Drug Administration Testing the microbiological quality of foods constitutes (FDA) published a new directive, which recommends strategies recognizing the utilization of bacterial screening as an effective the historical basis of the industrial applications developed solution to extend platelet shelf life, reduce waste, and improve by bioMérieux and based on a host of solutions. operational efficiency and patient safety. Today, BACT/ALERT® is the principal automated blood culture The manufacture of food products is subject to very strict system used worldwide for platelet screening. With the new controls to guarantee their microbiological quality. and innovative BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® system, used by several Microbiological testing is carried out during the entire blood transfusion centers all over the globe, bioMérieux confirms its position as leader in quality control of platelet production process, from raw materials to finished concentrates. products, as well as in the production environment to In late 2018, the innovative culture bottles BPA and BPN ensure safe food for the consumer. used for quality control testing of platelets with the fully automated BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® blood culture system received 510(k) clearance from the FDA. 26 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 27 l l l FOOD SAFETY INVISIBLE SENTINEL ACQUISITION OF THE US-BASED SPECIALIST IN BEVERAGE QUALITY CONTROL Invisible Sentinel, which was acquired by bioMérieux in early 2019, is based in Philadelphia (PA) where it develops, manufactures and markets innovative and user-friendly molecular diagnostic solutions for the rapid, accurate and reliable detection of pathogens and spoilage organisms in food and beverages. Its innovative molecular biology testing platform, VERIFLOW®, is user-friendly and does not require sophisticated lab infrastructure. It targets diversified customers in the food industry, in particular manufacturers of beverages (beer, INDIA: OFFICIAL RECOGNITION FOR wine, fruit juice) and nutraceuticals. IMPROVING FOOD SAFETY AND BIOMÉRIEUX’S ANALYTICAL METHODS This acquisition strengthens bioMérieux’s position in ADOPTING RAPID METHODS food pathogen testing and spoilage organism detection In the demanding and highly regulated segment of by expanding it to new customer segments such as microbiological analysis of agri-food products, bioMérieux breweries and wine producers. The product line provides In countries where bioMérieux operates, we work with has the most extensive portfolio of certified and officially the perfect complement to bioMérieux’s molecular local health authorities and microbiologists to contribute recognized methods. diagnostic food testing solution, GENE-UP®. It is to improving the health of consumers by increasing their commercially available in a number of countries: France, awareness of the value of diagnostic testing. Germany, Italy, Spain, China, Japan, Mexico, Chile, etc. This is the case in India, for example, where the Company has organized several initiatives in recent years to: + 80 methods certified n raise awareness about the importance of food safety for public health with the Food Safety and Standards by official North American and Authority of India (FSSAI), which is in charge of scientific European bodies* and regulatory issues; n conduct training in advanced microbiological techniques for food safety and method validation systems. TOD MOSTERO Two experts appointed by the French government, repreIn 2019, bioMérieux obtained new official recognition for WINEMAKER sentatives of the ISO (International Standardization the highly innovative methods that support its new Dominus Estates, California, USA Organization), one of them an expert from ANSES (French molecular biology platform GENE-UP®: AOAC-OMA Agency for Food, Environmental and Occupational Health (Official Method of Analysis) certifications for the primary “Early in-house Brettanomyces & Safety) and one bioMérieux expert, taught two five-day INTERNATIONAL SURVEY ON food pathogens in the North American market and AFNOR certifications for European markets. monitoring in wines during and just after training sessions (late 2018 and late 2019), within the FOOD SAFETY scope of the FSSAI/ANSES partnership, under the aegis The GENE-UP® system considerably simplifies laboratory fermentations, which was impossible to do of the French Embassy in Delhi. workflow by improving productivity and limiting the risk For the inaugural World Food Safety Day on June 7, 2019, before, allows us to effectively mitigate A total of 30 FSSAI laboratories, or ones recognized by bioMérieux and Mérieux NutriSciences published the of inter-sample contamination. Its menu enables the this authority, and 46 microbiologists received training detection of the disease-causing organisms most comissues and avoid potential problems results of an international survey about consumers’ about ISO methods and a number of scientific and stanmonly tested for in the food chain, such as Salmonella, later in the process.” dards-related topics. The training was made possible perceptions and behaviors on food safety. The survey, Norovirus, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Listeria, enterocovering China, France, India and the United States, thanks to the contribution of the bioMérieux team in India hemorrhagic Escherichia coli and Cronobacter. revealed that this topic is a widely-shared concern and and the local partnership established with the FSSAI and highlighted the differences from one country to another In early 2019, bioMérieux introduced a new unit-dose format its laboratories. in consumers’ perceptions and expectations when it for its reagents that can be used with the entire GENE-UP® All of these efforts led to the introduction of a new comes to food safety. range. It further streamlines workflows for our customers, regulation in India at the end of 2019, authorizing the providing rapid and extremely precise results. use of alternative methods including several bioMérieux methods, and specifying their conditions of use. Adopting these alternative methods contributes to the * AOAC certification in the United States, Santé Canada in Canada, AFNOR Certification improvement of food safety in India. and MicroVal in Europe. 28 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 29 A GLOBAL, SCALABLE SERVICE OFFERING DELIVERY SERVICE RATE REACHES RECORD HIGH IN 2019 Everyday 1,500 employees are on the ground, working closely with customers and providing tailor-made services to ensure At the interface between production and our customers, the continuous improvement of the customer experience. Our bioMérieux Supply Chain is responsible for making sure that extensive service offering starts with pre-sales technical products are available and orders are delivered on time As part of our approach to discussions and continues through each step of instrument worldwide. It relies on a team of more than 400 people and contribute to improving patient care installation, training sessions, qualification processes and on network made up of international logistics platforms and long-term follow-up to answer technical questions. 25 warehouses in several countries. The main objective of and protecting consumer health, In the field of industrial applications, for example, bioMérieux Supply Chain teams is to ensure the availability, quality and bioMérieux offers customers a specific develops partnerships with strategic and global customers, on-time delivery of reagents, instruments and spare parts to and evolving portfolio of services. major players in the agri-food and pharmaceutical industries our customers. worldwide. This results in co-design activities for the These services help ensure development of new solutions, personalized worldwide technical support for these customers, and a service the optimal integration of instruments into laboratory workflows while offering adapted to their specific needs and environment (regulatory, productivity, etc.). 96,7% of orders fulfilled shipped and delivered on time. maintaining the conditions of use In 2018, bioMérieux strengthened customer relations locally l and globally with the creation of teams of experts in charge over the long term, respecting quality This performance, up by 2 points from of training and coaching for employees in different countries. regulations and supporting skills They take part in project management with the aim of ensuring the previous year, is the fruit of the combined efforts of all bioMérieux departments that development through training and the same quality of service worldwide, starting with the design contribute daily to improving management of phase of our solutions. inventories and deliveries medical education initiatives. In 2019, we went one step further with the roll-out of an Thanks to our international footprint offering adapted to all markets thanks to a scalable offer designed to address different types of customer needs. In 2018, a system to track orders in real time was rolled and close proximity to our customers, out for our customers worldwide. In 2019, our close collabioMérieux provides a range of boration with some customers expanded to include sharing CLOSE TO systems to optimize their operational REMOTE SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT supply management tasks. In this case, the bioMérieux Supply Chain teams are responsible for monitoring and performance – for example, to improve We continue to deploy our program to ensure the connectivity managing customer inventories, making suggestions about the management of their reagent of bioMérieux remote systems using the VILINK® solution. OUR CUSTOMERS products and quantities to order to avoid any risk of rupture. Our aim is to improve the ability to interact remotely and inventory. thereby reduce intervention times, in particular for software updates, system calibration and preventive maintenance. WITH A RANGE CUSTOMER SERVICE ACTIVITY IN 2019: OF SERVICES 6% growth including maintenance, service contracts and workflow audits. * bioMérieux wins 5 AACC awards LAUNCH OF THE CUSTOMER PORTAL A personalized customer portal was introduced in the fourth In August 2019, bioMérieux received 5 IMV Clinical quarter of 2019 in India and Singapore. The pilot portal, in ServiceTrak™ awards at the annual meeting of English, is being tested by 150 customers. It provides a number the American Association for Clinical Chemistry (AACC) of services – for example, reporting and managing incidents held in Anaheim, California (USA). The Company was with technical support teams; requesting a call-back; keeping 94,5% recognized in the fields of identification & antibiotic records of appointments; creating and tracking orders; susceptibility testing (best customer service and archiving invoices and even accessing bioMérieux product of customers satisfied* customer satisfaction) and blood culture (best service, technical documents. The roll-out of this portal will continue customer satisfaction and system performance). in 2020 with the addition of new functionalities that further improve our service offering and value for customers. * Based on the results of a customer satisfaction survey conducted in 38 countries among 6,000 customers. 30 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 31 Innovation is one of the pillars of 1,800 employees working at bioMérieux’s strategy, rooted in our TRUE TO OUR PIONEERING SPIRIT, 18 R&D centers worldwide entrepreneurial tradition. BIOMÉRIEUX STRIVES TO FULFILL TWO OBJECTIVES: Numerous collaborative For over 55 years, we have innovated to drive progress in pathogen detection n increase the medical value of clinical diagnostic tests and develop microbiological control solutions to address agreements in countries focused and identification for the health of the needs of industry in an increasingly regulated on worldwide scientific and patients and consumers. Our approach sector. Our R&D efforts aim to deliver results even faster, to develop tools for detecting new pathogens, tests to medical innovation to innovation is based on combining provide information with a high clinical value, and biointernal innovation programs and multidisciplinary, international, public markers for increasingly personalized treatments; n improve laboratory workflows and optimize their overall 3 joint research laboratories operational performance. and private collaborations with academic A TRADITION OF research institutions, the medical and Around 30 patent applications filed scientific community, and cutting-edge * Innovation Award each year biotech companies. Lastly, it includes OPEN INNOVATION strategic, pivotal acquisitions that In October 2019, bioMérieux was awarded the Frenchharness new technologies to enhance American Chamber of Commerce Innovation Prize. This prize recognizes the efforts undertaken by the Company 554 patent families in the portfolio our portfolio. in the fight against antimicrobial resistance and the positive impact for the economy and the lives of patients. It also rewards our commitment to detect microorganisms 82 scientific publications in 2019 in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. FRANÇOIS LACOSTE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT R&D • bioMérieux “Innovation for bioMérieux CLINICAL INNOVATION is to provide laboratories with JOINT RESEARCH LABORATORIES precise and rapid results, wherever in the world, to improve the health IN FRANCE of patients and ensure the safety Since 2002, bioMérieux and the Lyon Civil n the study of organ failure and kidney failure in particular, of consumers.” Hospitals (HCL) have joined forces in two with a study of the NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk joint research laboratories within the Lyonassessment of acute kidney injuries among patients with Sud and Edouard Herriot Hospitals. These multiple injuries, presenting a profile similar to that of two laboratories will be housed in a single patients with sepsis; location in the coming years. In 2019, a joint roadmap for n the validation of innovative tests for the characterization both laboratories was established, with a focus on three of the immune status of patients in intensive care. As part fields of research: of the REALISM (REAnimation Low Immune Status Markers) n the diagnosis of severe bacterial infections among young program, conducted jointly with BIOASTER and partners children admitted to the Emergency Room or hospitalized in the pharmaceutical industry between 2016 and 2019, in the neonatal ward within the scope of the ANTOINE promising biomarkers to improve the care of patients with (biomArkers to differeNtiate bacTerial frOm vIral iNfEctions) a high risk of sepsis were identified. The markers will be research program. In late 2019, the inclusion of a cohort of validated through a large multicentric prospective European nearly 1,000 children under the age of three hospitalized study known as IMPACCT (IMmune Profiling of ICU PAtients at the HCL and other hospitals in France was finalized; to address Chronic Critical illness and ensure healThy ageing), with the support of the EIT Health* network. * An independent body of the European Union that acts as an innovation catalyst in the health field. 32 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 33 l l l OPEN INNOVATION IN CHINA PUBLIC/PRIVATE COLLABORATIONS In early 2019, a new joint research laboratory was created WITHIN THE SCOPE OF CALLS FOR with the Shanghai Children’s Medical Center (SCMC) TENDER IN THE EUROPEAN UNION’S as part of a three-year collaboration agreement. Our HORIZON 2020 RESEARCH AND alliance with one of the most innovative pediatric hospitals INNOVATION PROGRAM in the world opens up prospects for collaboration in many different areas. Our work together began with a Given the success of this type of collaboration, bioMérieux is the only partner from industry in the clinical study of the NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk bioMérieux’s ambition is to strengthen following consortia, designed to accelerate the clinical assessment of acute kidney injuries in young children the links among our different joint research validation of new biomarkers and enlarge the scope of following cardiac surgery. In the future, the joint laboratory laboratories to create a network spanning studies to develop prototypes for use on the BIOFIRE® will expand its activities to focus on the same fields as several continents. FILMARRAY® and VIDAS® platforms. the Lyon-based laboratories in France. n T he IMPACCT project involves several partners. Coordinated by bioMérieux in close collaboration with Imperial College London and the Lyon Civil Hospitals RESEARCH PROJECTS AND for a period of 3 years, it has received €2.8 million in BRAINI PARTNERSHIPS funding from the European Union out of a total budget of €3.9 million. IMPACCT’s main objective is to validate the clinical performance of a panel of immune biomarkers IN BRAZIL WITH BIOASTER, in a study involving 800 patients with sepsis. THE FRENCH n The DIAMONDS (Diagnosis and Management of Febrile Based on the ANTOINE research program model in TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION Illness using RNA Personalised Molecular Signature partnership with the HCL, the ANTONIO program with the Diagnosis) project began on January 1, 2020. It will be Infants Institute of São Paulo focuses on the validation INSTITUTE IN MICROBIOLOGY fully funded by the European Union for up to €22.5 million of biomarkers among immunocompromized and immunoover a period of 5 years. The primary aim of this n In late 2018, the DIREX research project on rapid suppressed children with febrile illness for the diagnosis project is to develop a rapid test to distinguish viral microbiology was launched to categorize bacteria of severe bacterial infections. More than 200 patients were from bacterial infections using a personalized genomic bioMérieux is the industry partner in the BRAINI (Blood using automated readers, an important step for the enrolled in 2019. The aim of this project is to validate signature in cases of severe infection, especially in biomarkers to improve management of mild traumatic identification of pathogens. biomarkers that will guide the prescription of antibiotics. pediatric patients. The project, which is being coordibrain injury) project, which was launched in 2019 with n The ISIT-TB project, conducted with BIOASTER since nated by the Imperial College London, brings together the support of EIT Health. This project assesses the 2015, reached completion in 2019. It identified 28 partners and 13 countries. performance of an automated blood test on the VIDAS® biomarkers for the diagnosis of tuberculosis and the platform that measures two brain-specific proteins known DIAMONDS is the continuation of PERFORM, an onprognosis of patients who are likely to develop active TB. to be elevated in patients who have intracranial lesions. going European project, also funded through the HoriBuilding on these results, bioMérieux will carry out a It also evaluates the prognostic value of the two brain zon 2020 program, in which bioMérieux is the only field validation study in 2020. biomarkers to detect patients at risk for deterioration of partner from industry (see page 44). their neurological condition. n The bacTseq project was launched in late 2019 for n ImmunoSep, launched on January 1, 2020, will be fully 3 years. It aims to develop a solution to identify and This clinical study aims to register the diagnostic test in financed by the European Union for around €10 million determine the resistance profile of bacteria in the context Europe and to produce data to prepare for its inclusion in funding over the next four years. Coordinated by of sepsis, directly from blood samples. The project is in future guidelines issued by professional societies. Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center (the based on using genome sequencing to diagnose sepsis, Netherlands), it will be the first large clinical study to Mild traumatic brain injuries, a common cause of admisfrom the sample through to results interpretation. demonstrate the efficacy of immunotherapy for the sion to hospital emergency departments, are difficult to n The metagenomics project IROISE targeting hematologymanagement of sepsis. Within the scope of this project, diagnose. Physicians need objective tools to determine oncology patients ended in 2019. Based on the genome a European clinical network will be set up to allow the whether patients require a CT brain scan. By reducing sequencing of blood-borne viruses, this project led to the validation of future treatments and diagnostic tools. the number of unnecessary CT scans, this test will limit development of highly innovative know-how between ImmunoSep will provide the first opportunity for exposure to ionizing radiation for patients with mild BIOASTER and bioMérieux, which is amongst the world’s bioMérieux to validate the biomarkers and tools brain injuries and will reduce the costs associated with best teams for virome* analysis. developed through the REALISM project. managing such injuries for health systems. * The collection of all the genomes of a virus population, found in the same body or the same environment. 34 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 35 l l l OPEN INNOVATION INNOVATION AND ACQUISITION COOPERATION AGREEMENTS IN INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL WITH ENTASIS THERAPEUTICS WITH THE JACKSON LABORATORY According to the terms of an agreement between The collaborative project between bioMérieux and the CONTROL bioMérieux and Entasis Therapeutics, this American Jackson Laboratory, a microbiology group directed by biopharmaceutical company will make use of the George Weinstock, Ph.D. (Hartford, CT, United States), BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems and the Pneumonia and was completed in late 2019. It focused on the value of Pneumonia plus BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Panels for a genome sequencing for research into the mechanisms phase 3 global clinical trial. The trial aims to identify of antimicrobial resistance. This work led to the discovery patients with pneumonia and septicemia caused by and publication 17 of a new mechanism of resistance to carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii who are beta-lactamases. The research focused on modifications IN THE PHARMA SECTOR able to be treated by the antibiotic ETX2514SUL. in gastro-intestinal bacterial flora before, during and after bioMérieux is in the final phase of development of the Thanks to rapid, simple detection, BIOFIRE® MYCOPLASMA Acinetobacter baumannii is a Gram-negative bacterium treatment with antibiotics. Several scientific publications very first all-in-one molecular test for mycoplasma improves the safety and productivity of manufacturing that causes serious infections. It is included in the WHO are in preparation based on the project findings. detection, BIOFIRE® MYCOPLASMA, whose performances processes for biotherapeutics and new cellular and gene global list of antibiotic-resistant bacteria because of its were already presented in 2019 in the United States and therapies, which are currently among the most vibrant multi-drug resistance, which represents a major threat Europe. Mycoplasma are one of the most formidable sectors in the pharmaceutical industry. With just 2 minutes in hospitals, nursing homes and among patients whose microbial contaminants in the manufacture of biopharof hands-on time for results in less than 1 hour, this test care involves the use of devices such as respirators and maceutical products. requires no special expertise or specialized laboratory. It blood catheters. allows controls to be performed at any stage in the process, and facilitates the rapid, reliable availability of pharmaceutical products. Such a development is particularly useful for patients requiring cellular therapy. EXPANDING OUR PORTFOLIO OF IMMUNOASSAY SOLUTIONS IN THE AGRI-FOOD SECTOR In 2019, bioMérieux acquired Invisible Sentinel (United bioMérieux increased its shareholding in Hybiome (China) DEVELOPMENT OF 3 TESTS ON States), a company specialized in the development and to 67%. This company which specializes in automated THE VIDAS® PLATFORM: production of innovative molecular diagnostic solutions immunoassay tests, is developing two automated, midn VIDAS® NEPHROCHECK® for the diagnosis of acute for the quality control of beverages. throughput immunoassay systems, complementary to kidney injury; the VIDAS® product range. n VIDAS® TB-IGRA for the diagnosis of latent tuberculosis; n VIDAS® DENGUE for the diagnosis of this arboviral disease transmitted by mosquito bites. AMH 36 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY True to our public health mission and driven by the power of diagnostics, bioMérieux is committed to protecting life. We are focused on improving the quality of life of the many communities we interact with, furthering the development of our employees, providing access to care for the most vulnerable people, countering new infectious threats worldwide, and sustaining the efficacy of healthcare systems for future generations. C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y RATING AGENCIES RECOGNIZE OUR CSR POLICY bioMérieux’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility has been recognized by extra-financial rating agencies that evaluate the Company’s social, societal and environmental performance and have included bioMérieux in their Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indices. SCORES AND LABELS EARNED Label Date bioMérieux’s performance February Inclusion in the Global 2020 Challenges Index, which selects pioneering companies that actively assume their responsibility and make a substantial contribution to meeting key global challenges. This index comprises 50 companies fulfilling these COMMITTED TO BEING criteria, chosen from A PRINCIPLED GOVERNANCE MODEL among 4,200 firms. bioMérieux is a family company, founded in 1963 by Alain Mérieux, January Score D and directed today by Alexandre Mérieux, CEO. The Company is C O M M I T T E D T O B E I N G A S O C I A L LY R E S P O N S I B L E C O M P A N Y, W I T H A H U M A N I S T I C V I S I O N 2020 A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY, 59% owned by Institut Mérieux. Since 2005, Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, under the aegis of Institut de France, has January Inclusion in the FTSE4Good been a one-third shareholder in Institut Mérieux. The Foundation 2020 Index, reserved for companies indirectly collects the only dividends that Institut Mérieux demonstrating strong WITH A HUMANISTIC VISION distributes in order to finance its activities in the field. Fondation management of environmental, Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux works in the field to fight against social and governance risks. infectious diseases in disadvantaged countries. January Score 72 2020 (health sector average: 46) A STRONG ORGANIZATION TO LEAD OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY November Score 72/100 (up from previous 2019 year). Ranked in the top 1% of (CSR) APPROACH companies with the best Through its activities, bioMérieux supports the performance. advancement of the United Nations Sustainable In 2018, bioMérieux created a quarterly CSR Committee composed of several members of the Executive Committee. Its role is to November Listed 26th on the Corporate As a pioneer in the field of in vitro diagnostics, Development Goals (SDG), which aim to provide a 2019 Knights Global 100 Index oversee all CSR-related issues and to anticipate corresponding bioMérieux has been committed to fighting infecblueprint to build a better and more sustainable opportunities, challenges and risks. This committee works with (companies earning more than tious diseases worldwide for more than 55 years. future for all. the Executive Committee to issue recommendations on our CSR US$1 billion in revenues). Our company has always adopted a socially resachievements and to assess the Company’s progress. October Score C+ ponsible, humanist approach to business developEach year since 2003, we have renewed our support In 2019, to bolster our initiatives and the transparency of our 2019 Ranked in the top decile of commitment, bioMérieux appointed a CSR Director in charge of the Health Care Equipment & ment in line with the values upheld by the Mérieux for the United Nations Global Compact. bioMérieux providing leadership and focus for our CSR performance. Supplies sector. family. We take a long-term view when it comes to has committed to respecting the 10 principles set A materiality analysis is underway to determine CSR priorities and September 1st place in the Health Care our employees as well as to outside stakeholders out in the Global Compact, based on four pillars: will provide the foundations to draw up a new roadmap in 2020. 2019 Equipment & Services sector. and the community in general. Our public health respect for human rights, labor conditions, the Inclusion in the Ethibel Index for the European companies with mission means we have a particular responsibility environment and the fight against corruption. the best CSR performance. to today’s society and future generations. 40 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 41 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y PRESERVING THE EFFICACY OF ANTIBIOTICS, A MAJOR PUBLIC HEALTH CHALLENGE To combat bacterial resistance to antibiotics, there are several areas for action: improving hygiene and infection control, developing new antibiotics, and bolstering vaccination, without forgetting the vital role of educating healthcare professionals, patients and the public about the importance of the appropriate use of antibiotics. In this fight, diagnostic tests play an essential part, contributing to improved patient care. As a global leader in infectious disease diagnostics, bioMérieux is a fervent defender of antibiotic stewardship. True to our public health mission, we place the development of diagnostic tests and education at the heart of our priorities, in order to preserve the efficacy of antibiotic treatments for the health of patients and future generations. COMMITTED TO PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING TO INTERNATIONAL STUDIES TO DEMONSTRATE THE IMPACT OF DIAGNOSTIC TESTS IN THE FIGHT AGAINST ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE (AMR) GLOBAL-PPS In 2019, bioMérieux renewed its support for the coordinating team Ten scientific articles about the GLOBAL-PPS have been published of the Global Point Prevalence Survey (GLOBAL-PPS)* Professor since it was launched. The most recent one demonstrates the value Herman Goossens and Dr. Ann Versporten of the University of of the GLOBAL-PPS to support the ECDC-PPS (European Centre for Antwerp (Belgium). This study of unprecedented international Disease Prevention and Control Point Prevalence Survey), a similar and misuse of these treatments has severe consescope, which began in 2015, provides key information about the use survey conducted every four years at the European level (18). quences for health and the environment. bioMérieux of antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance in hospitals worldwide. As a public health stakeholder, bioMérieux places also supports the action of Mérieux Foundation The GLOBAL-PPS makes it possible to measure the impact of the implementation of antimicrobial stewardship programs designed the patient and, more broadly, public health at the and Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux in to reinforce appropriate antibiotic use in hospitals. heart of its business activity. As a Company, we are the fight against infectious diseases. The Company In 2019, since the launch of As the sole private sponsor of the GLOBAL-PPS since it was launched, aware of our social responsibility and, in accordance and the workforce maintain strong ties with local bioMérieux provides financial support and contributes to promoting the GLOBAL-PPS: with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of stakeholders and communities wherever they are and developing the study on the ground locally. In 2019 once again, Over 80 participating countries; Human Rights and Article 12 of the International present. our teams in Africa, Asia, Canada and Mexico helped to significantly improve medical communications with hospitals, encouraging many Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights More than 800 participating hospitals of them to take part in this survey. A supplementary module on (ICESCR), we are committed to providing global Our commitment to people is upheld first and on all continents; healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) was added in September health solutions that improve the management of COMMITTED TO PEOPLE foremost by bioMérieux employees. Through their 2019. It has been used by around 100 hospitals in Belgium, India Data collected from over infectious diseases. Our commitments are focused daily work, they contribute to improving health and the Philippines to implement action plans in order to reduce 300,000 hospitalized patients HAIs and support the appropriate use of antibiotics. on the fight against antimicrobial resistance, which worldwide. represents a serious threat to public health globally, and on antibiotic stewardship because the overuse * bioMérieux is the exclusive private sponsor of the Global Point Prevalence Survey. The Company funds the survey but plays no role in the study design, selection, analysis and interpretation of data nor in drafting the report. The data, which are strictly confidential, are stored anonymously at the Coordination Center of the University of Antwerp. 42 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 43 l l l PRESERVING ANTIBIOTICS EFFICACY CARE, VALUE-DX, TOOLS FOR TRAINING AND EDUCATION A MULTI-SPONSOR PROGRAM IN CHINA A EUROPEAN CONSORTIUM TO DEMONSTRATE The China Against drug REsistance program, initiated in 2013 THE VALUE OF DIAGNOSTIC TESTS by the Mérieux Foundation, receives support from bioMérieux, Launched in April 2019, with a budget of €14 million over four www.amr.biomerieux.com which oversees its implementation. This program, which is based years, the VALUE-Dx project** is coordinated by the University In 2019, bioMérieux’s educational website * Inter-university degree in in particular on the GLOBAL-PPS, provides a standardized tool of Antwerp, bioMérieux and the Wellcome Trust. Through its (quality indicators) to help hospitals improve their antimicrobial on antimicrobial resistance was revamped co-leadership of this innovative project, bioMérieux is accelerating sub-Saharan Africa stewardship programs and control healthcare-associated infecwith new content. pan-European efforts to assess and quantify the medical, ecotions in order to limit the spread of antimicrobial resistance in nomic and public health value of diagnostics for optimizing the This site, accessible to healthcare professionals and the public, is China. In addition to hygiene measures, the CARE program will use of antibiotics and combatting AMR. Antibiotics are often designed to increase awareness of the major health challenges also develop collaborative projects based on interventions such bioMérieux supported the 3rd edition of the interover-used and unnecessarily prescribed in community care created by antimicrobial resistance, to educate on the appropriate as surgical prophylaxis, the systematic review of antibiotic use of antibiotics, and to demonstrate the essential role of university degree in “Antibiologie & Antibiothésettings. The goal is to demonstrate, in the specific case of prescriptions after 48 hours based on the patient’s condition and community-acquired acute respiratory tract infections (CA-ARTI), diagnostic testing to curtail this public health threat worldwide. rapie*” in sub-Saharan Africa organized at the the results of microbiology tests, and the use of hydroalcoholic the value of diagnostics as a fundamental tool to better target University of Nazi Boni in Burkina Faso. This solutions. In 2016, the first point prevalence survey was antibiotic prescribing. The project’s approach is to facilitate degree, developed by the Higher Institute of conducted in four clinical departments of the First Affiliated and accelerate the rigorous assessment and implementation Health Sciences (ISSS) in Burkina Faso, aims to Hospital of Zhejiang University in Zhejiang Province. In 2019, of innovative diagnostic technologies in healthcare settings by bioMérieux is actively involved in programs to raise awareness promote the development of scientific capacity the CARE program was expanded to 9 hospitals in 8 Chinese establishing the necessary infrastructure, methods, processes, among healthcare professionals and the public on the importance in the antimicrobial resistance field in Africa provinces. and approaches. The VALUE-Dx project also aims to evaluate of antibiotic stewardship, with several initiatives: by training healthcare professionals about the and overcome major hurdles to adopting diagnostic tests for n Organizing top-level scientific encounters all over the world; appropriate use of antibiotics. With each new acute respiratory tract infections, in particular training in the n Publishing a series of education booklets for laboratories group of graduates, the training program helps clinical field, psycho-social barriers, organizational challenges, and clinicians, accessible in the Education section on: create a network of AMR specialists in FrenchCOMBACTE, as well as regulatory and reimbursement issues. www.biomerieux.com speaking Africa. A EUROPEAN NETWORK TO FIGHT ANTIBIOTIC n Training on the role of diagnostic testing in antimicrobial RESISTANCE ** This project has received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking stewardship policies in hospitals; * Antibiotics and Antibiotic Therapy. under grant agreement No 820755. IMI 2 receives support from the European Union’s n Providing support for the World Antibiotic Awareness Week, Within the framework of projects financed by the European Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA and bioMérieux SA, Janssen https://waaw2019.biomerieux.com/fr ; Pharmaceutica NV, Accelerate Diagnostics S.L., Abbott Laboratories, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Commission and led by IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), BD Switzerland Sàrl, and The Wellcome Trust Limited. n Building employee awareness through an annual in-house bioMérieux is a partner of the COMBACTE-CDI (COMbatting communication campaign. BACTerial resistance in Europe) project, dedicated to combatting Clostridioides difficile infections (CDI), which are among the most prevalent healthcare-associated infections. Launched in November 2017 for a period of 3 years, the project aims to better BIOMÉRIEUX ALONGSIDE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS understand the epidemiology and the clinical impact of CDI in order to improve patient outcomes. * P rogress on bioMérieux is recognized for its expertise in the field of diagnostic testing for infectious diseases, and the Company is actively PERFORM, the CDC’s AMR Challenge involved with the following international bodies that are working A EUROPEAN PROJECT FOR THE RAPID In September 2018, bioMérieux joined the AMR (Antimito combat antimicrobial resistance: * Cooperation agreement IDENTIFICATION OF BACTERIAL INFECTIONS IN CHILDREN crobial Resistance) Challenge, an initiative organized by n Signatory to the 2017 Declaration on Antimicrobial Resistance at the World Economic Forum in Davos (Switzerland); with CIDRAP the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) n Participant in the 2017 AMR Industry Alliance and represenIn January 2019, bioMérieux signed a cooperation The European project PERFORM* (Personalised Risk assessment to step up the fight against antimicrobial resistance tative of the diagnostics industry on its Board of Directors. agreement with CIDRAP (Center for Infectious in febrile illness to Optimise Real-life Management across the through three commitments. The Company made signiAs an active member, bioMérieux took part in 2019 in the European Union) aims to improve the identification of bacterial survey on which the Alliance based its 2020 Report; Disease Research and Policy at the University of ficant progress on all three in 2019: infections and to reduce inappropriate use of antibiotics, which Minnesota – United States), undertaking to support n Voting member of the American Presidential Advisory Council impacts antibiotic resistance, by developing new tests to diffen I nnovative diagnostics: around 75% of on Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria (PACCARB); CIDRAP’s actions in favor of the responsible use rentiate between viral and bacterial infections. The PERFORM our R&D budget is dedicated to antibiotic of antibiotics. This agreement resulted in the n M ember of the working groups of AdvaMed (Advanced consortium brings together 18 international organizations from resistance; sponsorship of two CIDRAP webinars about the Medical Technology Association) and MedTechEurope 10 countries. Of the 10, bioMérieux is the only partner from value of diagnostics in antimicrobial stewardship, (European trade association for the medical technology industry. n I nternational studies (such as GLOBAL-PPS); the first in Europe and the United States and the industry); COMMITTED TO PEOPLE In 2020, the initiative will continue through the DIAMONDS second for the Asia-Pacific region. bioMérieux also n P  ublic-private partnerships (such as VALUE-Dx). n Leader of the French “Antibiorésistance” project of the (Diagnosis and Management of Febrile Illness using RNA Persoparticipated in the redesign of the CIDRAP webIndustrial and Governmental Health Strategy Committee. nalised Molecular Signature Diagnosis) project (see page 35). site to promote content related to antimicrobial resistance. * The PERFORM grant is one of the largest awarded by the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 health program (€18 million). Over a five-year period (2016-2021), it provides funding for the development of novel diagnostic tests to improve care for children presenting with high fever on arrival at a hospital or a health clinic. 44 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 45 RE C OS RPPO ONRS AATE B IR LEI TSÉP O DN’ ESNI T BRI LEIPTRYI S E C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y ACTING TO PREVENT EPIDEMICS IMPROVING IN LOWAND MIDDLE-INCOME ACCESS TO DIAGNOSTICS ALONGSIDE COUNTRIES THE FOUNDATIONS C 100 M 72 J0 N 32 Pantone : 281 C CONTRIBUTING TO BETTER INFECTIOUS DISEASE DIAGNOSTICS IN HAITI AND CAMBODIA JOINING FORCES TO COMBAT PLAGUE bioMérieux continues to support infectious disease diagnostics As part of its sponsorship activities, bioMérieux in resource-limited countries by making donations of reagents. OUTBREAKS IN MADAGASCAR supports initiatives by the Mérieux Foundation, In Haiti, the Company donated BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® GastroWe are continuing our collaboration with the Institut Pasteur of Intestinal Panels to the Gheskio Centers to improve the diagnosis which has public interest status, and the Fondation Madagascar to combat the plague through a study launched of gastro-intestinal infections. Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, under the aegis in 2018 to improve the diagnosis of this endemic disease. The of the Institut de France. These two independent In Cambodia, BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Meningitis-Encephalitis clinical study, which is funded by bioMérieux in collaboration with the Institut Mérieux, focuses on diagnosing the plague and Respiratory Panels were donated to the Angkor Hospital family foundations work together closely to combat for Children to improve diagnoses among children admitted infectious diseases and to sustainably improve the using the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Global Fever Panel RUO to the Emergency Room with suspected neuro-meningitis or (Research Use Only) developed by BioFire Defense. Outbreaks of respiratory infections. quality of life and health of vulnerable populations, UNDER AEGIS OF THE INSTITUT DE FRANCE the plague occur annually in Madagascar, which is the country in particular mothers and children. most affected by this infectious disease, according to the WHO. The Company also supported the 13th International Yersinia Symposium from September 16 to 19 in Madagascar, the first DOING OUR PART TO IMPROVE DIAGNOSTIC In 2019, bioMérieux allocated €2.409 million to event organized in Africa on the Yersinia genus. The Yersinia pestis TESTING OF PEDIATRIC FEVERS these family foundations to support a number of bacterium causes the plague, a zoonotic disease transmitted projects. by fleas. The plague, which remains endemic in Asia, America bioMérieux provides support for a research program on pediatric and Africa, has caused three pandemics and millions of deaths. fevers in rural areas of six countries in Southeast Asia by donating COMMITTED TO PEOPLE BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems and Respiratory Panels. This research program is being developed by the Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit (MORU, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand). The contract was signed in December 2019 and patient enrollment is scheduled for 2020. 46 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 47 l l l IMPROVING ACCESS TO DIAGNOSTICS STRENGTHENING RESEARCH ENHANCING ACCESS TO DIAGNOSTICS HELPING MOTHERS AND CHILDREN TRAINING HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS Improving applied research capacity in developing countries is bioMérieux donates BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems to the The Foundations work alongside local partners in countries The Mérieux Foundation contributes to implementing training one of the strategic priorities of the Mérieux Foundation. This Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratories to improve pathogen surveillance. where laboratories have been set up, as well as countries programs designed to meet international, regional and local commitment takes many forms: training local research teams, bioMérieux has already installed two platforms in Lebanon (in affected by humanitarian crises. Health, hygiene, education public health needs and priorities in many different places. In setting up collaborative research programs, and creating cuttingTripoli and Beirut), one in Haiti and one in Madagascar. and the development of socio-economic activities are the 2019, it organized two training courses at Les Pensières Center edge laboratories, the Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratories. These fields in which initiatives are organized to improve living for Global Health (Annecy – France), which focused on topics In 2018, two BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems were installed in centers of excellence are transferred to local partners to ensure conditions and access to care for the most vulnerable related to the strategic activities of bioMérieux. The Company Bangladesh near Rohingya refugee camps to be used during a they address local needs on a long-term basis. They contribute populations, in particular mothers and their children. lent its support, and employees took part in these two courses: study conducted by the Mérieux Foundation. The aim of this to strengthening local research and training capacities while study is to identify the disease agents responsible for acute ensuring clinical and biological analyses in the regions where respiratory infections during humanitarian crises, and to IN IRAQ * 1st Antimicrobial Resistance they are located. (AMR) Course: determine the types of health interventions that are necessary In 2019, the community medical center for Yazidi women and A One Health Challenge * In 2019, the Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratory of Beirut, a national to improve patient care in such settings. These systems will children was inaugurated in Shekan. The Yazidi minority has observatory for pathogenic agents and infectious diseases in been the victim of persecutions, exile and abuse at the hands This five-day course on AMR, developed in partnership with the then be dedicated to the Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratory at the Lebanon, was named a national tuberculosis reference laboratory. of the Islamic State. In response to a request from the Yazidi University Paris-Diderot, was designed to support the objectives Bangladesh Institute of Tropical and Infectious Diseases High Council, the construction of this center was initiated by of the WHO’s AMR Global Action Plan to combat antimicrobial * In Laos, a mobile biosafety (BSL-3) laboratory was installed (BITID) in Chittagong. For this study, bioMérieux also donated a the Mérieux Foundation and its partners, in particular the resistance and strengthen strategic decision-making capacity, in 2019 at the Lao Christophe Mérieux Center of Infectiology mini VIDAS® system and VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ tests to Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes Region. Due to political and military especially in lowand middle-income countries. for diagnostic testing and tuberculosis monitoring. The Lao measure procalcitonin. Christophe Mérieux Center of Infectiology has received instability in the region, displaced Yazidi women and children cannot currently return to their homes. Their physical and * 10th anniversary of ACDx ISO 15189 and ISO 15190 accreditation. mental health has been deeply affected, and they cannot The Advanced Course on Diagnostics is a one-week intensive imagine the prospect of rebuilding a future. The center is course developed in partnership with the London School of equipped to provide psychological care (individually and with Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM). ACDx advocates for the * A ctively combatting support groups). It has workshops where sesame paste and role and value of diagnostics in global health. It focuses on access to quality diagnostics, in particular with respect to antithe Ebola virus in the Democratic sesame oil are made, a hair salon, and a children’s game and sports area. microbial resistance and epidemic preparedness, while highlighRepublic of the Congo ting social and technical innovation. Attendees include scientists IN LEBANON and decision makers who implement strategies on the use of A socio-medical center to serve refugee communities was diagnostics for infectious disease control. Among the outstanbioMérieux supported the actions of the Mérieux ding features of this course are its interdisciplinary approach inaugurated in 2019 in the Bekaa Plain. It was built by the Foundation as part of efforts to combat the Ebola Mérieux Foundation alongside its partners: the Fondation and international outreach, which facilitate exchange and virus disease epidemic in the Democratic Republic Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, the Principality of Monaco’s collaboration to allow access to diagnostics for all. of the Congo. For this purpose, bioMérieux donated Department of International Cooperation, and the NGO Amel BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® systems and Global Fever Association International. Lebanon is one of the countries Panel-RUO (Research Use Only) and BioThreat-E with the most Syrian refugees in proportion to its population, (Ebola test). These solutions are used to equip especially in the Bekaa plain near the Syrian border, one of the the mobile biosafety laboratories (BSL-2 and BSL-3) regions of the country with the poorest infrastructure. The 2019 CHRISTOPHE MÉRIEUX PRIZE shipped to Goma by the Mérieux Foundation. refugees, primarily women and children, live here under crisis AWARDED TO DR. MARYLINE BONNET The laboratories were donated to the National Institute conditions. This center provides medical care, gynecological, obstetric and pediatric consultations, and information about for Biomedical Research as part of a partnership with good hygiene practices and social support. USAID (United States Agency for International Development) to bolster diagnostic capacities in Goma, the country’s third largest city. In addition, bioMérieux donated a BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® system for a mobile laboratory developed by the Praesens bioMérieux supports Foundation (Belgium) to bring Ebola screening to remote areas. the Betania Center in Madagascar In 2019, bioMérieux provided financial support to the Dr. Maryline Bonnet received the Christophe Mérieux Betania Center in Ankasina, a poor neighborhood of Prize for her research on tuberculosis in developing Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar. The Mérieux countries. Dr. Bonnet, an epidemiologist and Foundation is one of the partners of this center, which pulmonologist, is research director at the TransVIHMI COMMITTED TO PEOPLE houses a medical dispensary for pregnant women and Unit of IRD, the French National Research Institute for young mothers, a school, a cafeteria for children and a Sustainable Development. Since 2014 she has been vegetable garden. The funds provided by bioMérieux working in Mbarara, Uganda, where she conducts were used to renovate the medical building and to build several research projects on tuberculosis and HIV. a sanitary block to help prevent the spread of infectious diseases. 48 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 49 RE C OS RPPO ONRS AATE B IR LEI TSÉP O DN’ ESNI T BRI LEIPTRYI S E TIES WITH bioMérieux is also a founding member of the Fondation Université * IN THE UNITED STATES, bioMérieux maintains close ties with institutes of higher education, which facilitates the LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS Grenoble Alpes created in 2014. The aim of this foundation is to recruitment of recent graduates. In Durham, North Carolina, we have partnerships with local colleges and several leading support top-notch research projects and promote equal opporuniversities including the University of North Carolina, North tunity to accompany the transitions of the 21st century. In 2019, Carolina State University, and Duke University. The Company the Company renewed its term with the Fondation Université sponsors the Biomanufacturing Training and Education Center Grenoble Alpes for five more years. (BTEC) and contributes to awarding scholarships to two Since 2015, bioMérieux has also participated in the “Health students annually. 4 Life” Master’s Excellence program at the Université Grenoble At our St. Louis site, bioMérieux employs work-study interns Alpes (UGA) by funding 31 scholarships in five years, providing from Washington University and other universities in the state top students in this specialization the opportunity to continue of Missouri. The Company awards scholarships to students their studies in an international setting. This Master’s degree at selected from two universities. the Faculty of Pharmacy of UGA combines multidisciplinary approaches, and is original in that it develops interfaces between the healthcare, computer engineering and mathematics fields. This partnership allows bioMérieux to hire recent OUR COMMITMENT TO LOCAL graduates of the program. COMMUNITIES A partner of the INSA (National PRISE DES POSSIB In early 2019, Alain Mérieux, Institute of Applied Sciences) Lyon N TRE LE L’ E Pre s i d e n t o f I n st i t u t S Foundation since 2010, bioMérieux renewed its commitment to Mérieux, officially launched the foundation from 2020 to 2024. It also strengthened ties L’Entreprise des Possibles, with the school by sponsoring the Biosciences Department a highly innovative social class of 2022. bioMérieux sits on the Board of Directors of the initiative that calls on Foundation and is a member of its Bureau and the Advisory Board businesses in the Lyon area and their employees to help homeless of the Department of Biosciences. Each year, the Company hosts and vulnerable individuals. bioMérieux responded by becoming interns from the school and hires young INSA Lyon graduates one of the founding companies in this group, and the Company to join its teams. It organizes career days and participates R E P R I in ENT N T R E P R I who wished to become involved encouraged Eemployees ENT R E P R Ito do the INSA Business Forum. L’ SE so in one of two ways: either by donating paid leave or by L’ SE L’ SE volunteering. In response to the first option, bioMérieux Since November 2017, bioMérieux has been a employees gave overwhelmingly, donating 214 days of paid S P DE L ES S P combined DE L ES S P DE ES L member of the UNITECH Program alongside OSSIB leave. This was OSSIB OSSIB with 100% matching contributions WITH ASSOCIATIONS WITH SCHOOLS AND ACADEMIC INSA Lyon. This European excellence exchange from the Company to reach a total of €100,000 donated to the INSTITUTIONS program brings together eight European endowment fund of L’Entreprise des Possibles to help people in universities – INSA Lyon (France), Chalmers need. In early March 2020, a mobile village was inaugurated As a loyal supporter since 2007 of Sport (Sweden), Trinity College (Dublin, Ireland), RWTH Aachen (Gerin Lyon to welcome the public until planned housing has been dans la Ville, which uses sport to help young In 2015, bioMérieux established a partnership many), ETH Zurich (Switzerland), Polytecnico de Milan (Italy), completed. people from disadvantaged neighborhoods with EMLYON Business School in France. Thanks to this alliance, it was one of the first Loughborough University (England), UPC Barcelona (Spain) – find their place in society and the profescompanies to join the Global Business and 22 business partners. It allows bioMérieux to take part in sional world, bioMérieux sponsors and hosts Network, which brings together major selecting the best engineering students and in their training, with young people to allow them to gain work international businesses that are partners a strong focus on leadership skills and new technologies. The experience. In 2019, the association inaugurated a digital space to the school. We have become the partner with expertise in the Company is able to suggest study projects, offer internships – to which bioMérieux contributed – on the association’s Lyon DES POS campus, with the aim of improving digital know-how among life sciences within the I.D.E.A. program (Innovation, Design, and recruit candidates over the course of their studies. TR EPRISE S IBL young people. The Company also renewed its support for the Entrepreneurship & Arts), a novel learning approach adopted by L ’EN ES Apprenti’Bus program, which was thus able to acquire a third EMLYON to train future innovative entrepreneurs. bioMérieux We also have longstanding partnerretrofitted school bus for traveling education initiatives that also supports the development of research projects conducted by ships with the Graduate School of help youngsters learn written and oral communication skills. the French Corporate Governance Institute (IFGE). Furthermore, Biology-Biochemistry-Biotechnothe partnership includes training to help Group employees logy (ESTBB), one of the schools of the science faculty of the develop their skills, particularly in connection with the digital Catholic University of Lyon. Nearly 180 bioMérieux employees transformation in business. are ESTBB graduates, and each year we host students for internships and work-study programs. Since 2008, the EMEA COMMITTED TO PEOPLE Since 2014, bioMérieux has been a partner of the Institut (Europe-Middle East-Africa) HR Director at bioMérieux has REPRI REPRI Télémaque, which provides schooling and homework support been a member of ESTBB’s Excellence Council, a forum for ENT L’ SE L’ ENT SE for youngsters from modest backgrounds, from 7th grade through educational directors to share professional opinions and develop high school graduation. For the 2018-2019 school year, the the programs’ curriculum in line with the new skills required by Company funded in-house tutors who accompanied 20 young businesses. In October 2017, bioMérieux renewed its commitment S P DE ES L DE S P L ES OSSIB OSSIB people selected by the Institut Télémaque. to the school by signing an agreement formalizing its partnership for the next 3 years. 50 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 51 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y l l l TIES WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS * For three years, bioMérieux has supported and participated * In the United States, our Durham and Lombard sites organized in the Bike&Run France race, which is held each year on a a Manufacturing Day in October 2019. This initiative, which is university campus in Lyon. Participants run in pairs, comprised overseen by the National Association of Manufacturers, aims to of one student from a local university or Grande Ecole and one promote manufacturing jobs, in particular by organizing an representative of a business in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes open house to attract young people. The two bioMérieux sites region. The race provides an opportunity for local businesses to welcomed nearly 150 high school and middle school students, share their values with future graduates through a sports university students and members of the local community. event, and an alternative way for them to meet young talent. COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE Employees of our subsidiaries are active in projects to support local communities. Examples of initiatives in 2019: n F  undraising and collecting gifts to help nine local families, in partnership with the volunteer organization of the Hazelwood Police Department in St. Louis (United States); n V  isits to Baby’s Home in Shanghai (China), a center for orphans who are waiting to undergo medical treatment or surgery, to spend time with the children; n P  reparing and distributing meals for nearly 200 people in Brussels (Belgium) as part of an initiative called Opération Thermos; Promoting the professional development and Two systems are in place to meet professional n S  upport for the Ukukhula Program, which helps success of our employees is a strategic and societal development needs: Mérieux Université, a corporate young people from underprivileged neighborhoods priority at bioMérieux. In a context of sustained university created to train the employees of Institut develop their own business activity as a way to growth, our Company implements a dynamic social Mérieux, and a regional organization that allows combat unemployment (South Africa); policy to support our employees on their career path HR teams to address local requirements. n S  pending a day with children living at the Child COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE and leverage their commitment. With 70% of our Welfare Institute in Turkey; workforce located in France and the United States, n D  onations to the Hogar Querubines home for children in Buenos Aires (Argentina); these two countries are the benchmark and the drivers of the socially responsible policy that we n F  or World Cleanup Day in September 2019, bioMérieux employees and their families volunteered seek to apply to all our employees worldwide. to take part in local initiatives to clean up litter and waste in 15 countries worldwide. 52 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 53 RE C OS RPPO ONRS AATE B IR LEI TSÉP O DN’ ESNI T BRI LEIPTRYI S E SUPPORTING THE SUCCESS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT OF EVERY EMPLOYEE In 2019, Mérieux Université organized: 4,501 days of job training representing 31,507 hours of training EMPLOYEE SKILLS TRAINING These training programs cover a number of different functions in order to improve employees’ skills in line with the changing 1,940 people demands of their jobs and customer needs. Programs are received job-related training gradually being organized into “academies” to offer a genuine learning trajectory to employees worldwide, including skills acquisition and training to prepare them for the jobs of 894 people tomorrow, and to develop their aptitudes as much as their ALEXIA DE MONTERNO received “change management” support attitudes. Another challenge we face is to provide more and GLOBAL DIRECTOR OF MÉRIEUX UNIVERSITÉ more training courses that allow employees to earn a certificate Since it was created in 2014, Mérieux Université or a degree, which facilitates their training record and their 1,685 people has supported the development of the employees of employability. the Institut Mérieux Group. It provides training and “Mérieux Université’s primary role received management and leadership is to prepare employees for the jobs n SALES training ensures the transmission of a strong entrepreneurial We continued to develop inter-regional training programs for culture within the Group, helping to build bridges of the future. Our teams work with sales forces and began setting up an international network of among its different entities. Mérieux Université bioMérieux employees to allow trainers so that our employees can receive training in their local language. teams are active in three regions: EMEA (Europe, them to develop in a supportive Middle East and Africa), the Americas and Asia Pacific, where they provide core training courses. professional environment while also n SUPPLY CHAIN In partnership with Mérieux Université and the Rennes School Workshops for meeting the ever-changing needs Our priority is blended learning, which combines of our business. For us, it is essential of Business, bioMérieux Supply Chain teams have developed a training program based on six modules for remote and faceemployee-trainers at complementary remote learning and face-to-face to pursue our strong commitment to-face training, including one which is open to all Company employees. The “Supply Chain Academy” aims to harmonize bioMérieux training approaches. In 2020, we will be focusing to ongoing training, which has always knowledge, develop skills and bolster future talent so that the bioMérieux employees may be called upon to on improving our e-learning offering. been part of the Group’s DNA.” bioMérieux Supply Chain continues to bring us a competitive be trainers, particularly for skills training. COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE edge and build customer satisfaction. Training programs target key areas: Mérieux Université organizes “MU just for you” n MARKETING workshops to help employees learn n learning new job skills to keep pace with market We continued to roll out “Marketing 4 Impact” for global and local marketing teams. This training program revisits the teaching skills trends, technologies and digitalization; position and role of marketing, especially the connection with n strengthening managerial practices in line with R&D and local marketing. the bioMérieux culture and adopting an intern PURCHASING cultural approach. The “Purchasing Academy” was founded to strengthen two key skills for purchasing employees: complex negotiating skills and capacity to influence. Global deployment of training sessions took place in 2019. 54 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 55 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y l l l SUPPORTING THE SUCCESS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT OF EVERY EMPLOYEE n INFORMATION SYSTEMS (IS) Four pilot training modules were introduced in 2019. Two Training for customer biologists PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL modules cover general topics to provide standardized information about the basics of IS and digital technologies. Two For biologists working outside the Group, Mérieux Université also offers a catalog of DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE additional modules aim to improve teams’ knowledge while facilitating the connection between infrastructure and job80 training courses in microbiology. In 2019, related applications. more than 100 training sessions took place for n HUMAN RESOURCES AND FINANCE nearly 1,000 health professionals in France. These two functions drove the creation of their job training programs, with the first pilot courses planned in 2020. n ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND CYBERSECURITY Training was provided to all employees on the General Data Scientific conferences Protection Regulation (GDPR) , the rules of ethical conduct Each year, two types of events are held for applicable across the Group, and information security, empowering each individual to feel responsible and to respect Group employees to provide information on good practices. scientific topics. In 2019 : n “Immunity for diagnostics and care” ORGANIZATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS was the chosen theme of the Institut Mérieux Mérieux Université works with bioMérieux teams during indiEncounters; vidual career coaching and team-building exercises in order to enhance the organization’s collective performance and n The bioMérieux Days were held twice and help teams develop, transform and improve the way they focused on the topics of “Aging well with PTH work together based on a clear understanding of roles and and Vitamin D,” and “Healthcare-associated responsibilities. infections: How to stop transmission?”. In 2019, 894 bioMérieux employees received coaching, individually or as part of group. 6 agreements signed by labor unions MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP The bioMérieux employee training program is designed to support our Group mindset and leadership model. SOCIAL DIALOGUE n Agreement on Quality of Life at Work, signed unanimously on January 31, 2019. n Agreement on the 2019 Mandatory Annual In France, the establishment of Social and Economic Negotiations, signed unanimously. n NEW LEADER INDUCTION This training program for newly recruited managers fosters Committees at all French sites, required by law prior n Agreement on additional profit sharing for the development of a shared management culture to facilitate to January 1, 2020, provided the opportunity for employees in France so that employees share in their on-boarding. Since it was created in 2015, it has been an bioMérieux to renegotiate an agreement on social the fruits of 2018 growth. added feature to enhance the Company’s attractiveness. n New profit sharing agreement signed dialogue. This agreement builds on progress made In 2019, 30 people participated in the program. unanimously for the years 2019 to 2021. in terms of social dialogue granted to employee n Agreement on social dialogue and n FIT FOR THE FUTURE representatives, whether elected by employees or the establishment of Economic and Social This week of intensive training is a genuine talent booster, designated by representative national labor unions. Committees (ESC) at each French site, signed bringing together employees to work on topics that are of key unanimously. interest to bioMérieux. They also attend presentations by In 2019, the bioMérieux SA Central Works Council n Agreement and amendment on the organization renowned speakers from outside the Company. After working (which became the Central Social and Economic of professional elections at the 5 French sites. COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE on their projects for six months, participants present them to the Executive Committee for validation and implementation Committee as of November 1, 2019) met 11 times of actions plans across the Company. for information or information and consultation In 2019, 25 bioMérieux employees took part in the fifth edition of this training program. meetings. 70 agreements signed in n MANAGERIAL AND RELATIONAL CULTURE Additionally, the European Works Council, created in 2008, met twice during the year and had the 5 years in France Mérieux Université also supports bioMérieux teams through courses on managerial and relational culture so that they can opportunity to discuss the same topics. In late 2019, bioMérieux SA received a silver medal at meet the challenges of making decisions, taking initiatives the Victoires des Leaders du Capital Humain awards, in and working cross-functionally with collective agility. the social dialogue category. 56 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 57 l l l PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ATTRACTIVENESS DISABILITY In 2019, a sur vey was conducted among more than 2,000 employees in the United States to measure their TOP EMPLOYER In application of the 2018-2021 agreement on disability, bioMérieux allocates an annual budget of €257,000 to fund a policy for the n 2019, bioMérieux supported a project for author * IJean-Baptiste engagement. Participation reached 71%. The engagement rate hiring, integration and training of people with disabilities. The Laissard to write Handicap et Travail Top Employer Certification is a label recognizing excellence in (Disability and Work). The book contains stood at 76%, which was 4 points more than a sampling of North Company also supports job retention by adapting workstations human resources management and working conditions. Four testimonials by two employees with disabilities who American companies, and 2 points more than a sampling of and promotes awareness-raising and training for stakeholders countries where bioMérieux operates have obtained this label: describe their careers at the Company. international companies in the biotechnology and medical involved in integrating employees with disabilities. China (2019 label renewed in 2020), South Africa, France and devices sector. A separate survey was also conducted in the the United States. Being chosen to receive this label reflects Initiatives in 2019 included: Asia Pacific region (China, Japan, Korea), where participation quality and innovation in Human Resources practices. n “Handibio” days organized in France at the Verniolle, Saint-Vulbas, was 82%. PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES IN THE WORKFORCE La Balme and Marcy l’Étoile sites; bioMérieux plans to roll out this approach on a broader scale RANDSTAD AWARD n #HandibioRecrutement, a half-day “job dating” event organized IN 2019 IN 2018 with a worldwide survey in 2020. For the 3rd year in a row, in 2019 bioMérieux was a recipient of by the EMEA* recruitment team in France, for candidates with RÉGION EMEA * the Randstad Awards. The Company confirmed its place as the a two-year degree after their high-school diploma who are 1.2% 1.1% (NOT INCLUDING FRANCE) AN INNOVATIVE QLW AGREEMENT third most attractive company in France from a list of looking for a job, a work-study contract or an internship. In France, the first agreement on Quality of Life at Work (QLW) 4.8% 4.5% 250 firms. A survey of the general public, conducted in late FRANCE 6.07% of gross 5.96% of gross was signed unanimously in early 2019 by the unions present In 2019, for the first time bioMérieux France exceeded the mandatory 2018 by the agency TNS Sofres, covered over 10 criteria employment rate employment rate in the Company. The French Ministry of Labor commended minimum employment rate for employees with disabilities. This including job security, career opportunities and corporate bioMérieux, which also received an award for the second achievement is the outcome of several disability agreements, AMERICAS REGION 2.1% 2.1% social responsibility. most innovative agreement of the year during the Labor Law dedicated budgets and grass-roots work by Disability Delegates. Conference. Such distinctions encourage bioMérieux to ASIA PACIFIC REGION 0% 0.2% UNIVERSUM RANKING continue the pursuit of excellence in quality social dialogue as has been its practice since the Company was founded. The For the first time, in 2019 bioMérieux joined the Universum * Europe, Middle East, Africa. agreement was based on the results of a QLW questionnaire France ranking of the most attractive French employers for distributed to nearly 12,000 bioMérieux employees worldwide. future graduates of engineering, business and management It reflects the Company’s wish to continue to develop conditions schools, and for junior executives graduating from schools GENDER EQUALITY to foster employee engagement, motivate teams and ensure with a wide variety of fields of expertise. The ranking is based The Women Ready for Leadership Diversity (WoRLD) network is the individual and collective well-being of employees in France on the results of surveys of 130 French companies. * I n France, the gender equality index reached open to all bioMérieux employees worldwide, both women and and the rest of the world. It builds on numerous initiatives 88/100 in 2019. men. Since it was created in 2013, it has been promoting greater already in place within the Company. In particular, it establishes new ways of organizing work, such as, for example, additional DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION * In France, women represent 55% of the workforce. diversity in management positions in parallel to initiatives by the Human Resources Department. Worldwide, 48% of the workforce is made up of teleworking days upon request (FlexJob) on top of regular HIRING YOUNG PEOPLE women and 44% of management positions In France, in 2019, the WoRLD network continued its partnership teleworking, as well as several other measures that contribute Attracting and hiring young people, who represent a talent are held by women. with the Alliance pour la Mixité en Entreprise (AME), an organization to employees’ wellbeing and quality of life. pool for the future, is a priority of bioMérieux’s HR policy. * T  he Board of Directors of bioMérieux will be that connects the networks of some 15 companies operating in the Through training programs, it supports their integration into renewed, as a matter of priority, through Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. The partnership allows bioMérieux MYSHARE, A GLOBAL EMPLOYEE SHARE the workforce. The Company opens its doors to young people the appointment of women until parity has been employees to participate in inter-company events about gender OWNERSHIP PLAN through a wide range of options: equality in business. Among the year’s highlights were two achieved. bioMérieux wishes to allow employees to be more closely n Job shadowing internships for high school students; networking events. The WoRLD network also supported the orga* I n 2019, 848 internal promotions took place and involved in the Company’s performance. With this in mind, we n Pharmacy student internships; nization of a conference with the Healthcare Businesswomen’s 49% were positions filled by women. launched a global employee share ownership plan in 2019. Association (HBA). n International internship program (V.I.E): in 2019, 23 young Between November 4 and 18, all eligible employees living in people worked at one of the Company’s subsidiaries, 12 of one of the countries authorizing this operation were able to them completed their assignments, and 9 were offered a buy existing bioMérieux shares. contract at the end of their assignment; HEALTH ENJOY&SHARE As a result of bioMérieux’s initial public offering n Internships and work-study: 167 interns and 173 work-study NEARLY Protecting the health of employees takes many forms: Building on the “iDay Idea Tank” organized in 2018, providing all as well as the employee savings plan and the candidates (with qualifications ranging from a high-school ONE IN TWO n All Group employees are covered by health insurance; employees worldwide an opportunity to make suggestions and share ownership plans of the last few years, diploma to a graduate degree) were taken on in 2019. EMPLOYEES IS share ideas about improving employee engagement, bioMérieux A SHAREHOLDER nearly one in two employees is a shareholder n Sites encourage employees to engage in sports activities; continues to implement and follow up on the suggested initiatives. of the Company. n On a regular basis, actions to build awareness about hygiene For example, the Enjoy & Share collaborative platform used by measures and public health priorities as well as seasonal bioMérieux employees worldwide (for swapping houses during THE COMPANY COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE PARTICIPATED IN influenza vaccination campaigns are organized at most sites; holidays and traveling abroad to learn a new language) was enhanced CLOSE TO n In the United States, a pilot healthcare and education program in 2019 with a classified ads section so that employees can sell, 20 STUDENT FAIRS is being developed through a medical center for employees donate or swap goods and services. and their families in St. Louis. The St. Louis and Durham sites raise awareness among employees and their families about CONCIERGE SERVICE priority public health measures and a digital program to help After opening at the French sites of Craponne, Marcy l’Étoile and people lose weight is also available to employees. Campus de l’Étoile, a concierge service was inaugurated at the La Balme site in November 2019. bioMérieux covers the cost of this multiservice desk, and employees pay for their orders at a preferential rate. 58 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 59 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y l l l PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE RAISING EMPLOYEE AWARENESS ABOUT SAFETY To reach the ambitious Vision 2020 objectives concerning the environmental impact of our business activity and to maintain OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATION COMMITTED TO RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 9 sites have been certified in Australia, Brazil, Spain, United the level of vigilance, bioMérieux launched an in-house global States, France and Italy. awareness campaign in October 2018, encouraging employees to act in a clean and safe manner. In 2020, all OHSAS 18001 sites will receive ISO 45001 certification, and in the future will keep only this reference certification. The first focus of the campaign was to prevent accidents as employees move from place to place, with the goal of reducing the number of injuries in situations where employees could be more alert. Since a majority of the accidents recorded were due to avoidable unsafe behaviors, such as using one’s phone while walking, for example, a training program, “Discutons Sécurité,” was introduced in 2019. An e-learning version will be rolled out in 2020. PREVENTING VISION 2020 : PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 2020 TARGET 2019 PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS ABOVE AND BEYOND In 2016, bioMérieux laid out its COMMITTED TO RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT FREQUENCY In connection with the initiatives organized by the Human “Vision 2020” policy, through OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS Resources Department to prevent psychosocial risks, the RATE OF LOST-TIME ACCIDENTS * ≤ 1.3 1.8 Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) policy focuses on which it aims to achieve ambitious We have exceeded the objectives of Vision 2020 thanks to the reducing employees’ exposure to musculoskeletal disorders. objectives to protect the environment success of projects concerning energy savings, Supply Chain FREQUENCY RATE OF Each year, our sites develop projects to improve workstation and the safety and health of optimization and waste reduction. ACCIDENTS WITH AND WITHOUT LOST TIME ** 3.6 ergonomics, which are measured and assessed for their efficiency. Following a grass-roots survey conducted in employees on all company sites. We have begun to establish bioMérieux’s environmental objectives and our roadmap for the coming years, including June 2018 on risk exposure, an action plan for 2019-2020 was This policy is aligned with the how we adapt to climate change. * (Number of accidents with lost time/hours worked) x 1,000,000. ** (Number of accidents with and without lost time/hours worked) x 1,000,000. drawn up to apply the HSE model adapted to commercial Corporate strategy, and is managed operations worldwide. A training module on car safety adapted and monitored by a global Health, Once again in 2019, energy and water consumption and to local languages and regulations was also rolled out to nearly greenhouse gas emissions increased less than the growth of 2,000 drivers. Safety and Environment Committee, bioMérieux’s business activity. Supply chain optimization For World Safety Day in April 2019, employees used the bioMérieux in-house social network to share photographs chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. and the reduction of avoidable waste resulted in an overall and videos of safe practices that illustrated their involvement. decrease in waste produced in 2019. 60 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 61 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y l l l COMMITTED TO RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT REDUCTION TARGET, ACHIEVED PERFORMANCE INDICATOR * 2015 TO 2020 IN 2019 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 20% 20% WASTE GENERATED 25% 35% WATER CONSUMPTION 20% 19% REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 & 2) 20% 26% * Intensité basée sur le chiffre d’affaires. We continued efforts to meet ambitious objectives and the roll-out of our policy on Health, Safety and the Environment REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL (HSE), relying on the commitment of our subsidiaries, sites and employees, who made suggestions about areas for improvement IMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS thanks to training and awareness building. DURING THEIR LIFE CYCLE In addition, we organized initiatives to introduce the bioMérieux COMMITTED HSE standards in relations with suppliers and to support their ECO-DESIGN APPROACH deployment, in particular among logistics providers. As part of our environmental policy, bioMérieux rolls out an environmental impact assessment program for products and ENERGY SAVINGS related materials at each step of the life cycle, in order to improve TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS Energy management systems operate at our main sites. Today, our practices. 50% of the electricity consumed by our European sites comes At the same time, the Company has for several years taken an from renewable sources. Since October 2018, CO2 emissions eco-design approach to products. This approach is based on related to natural gas consumption at French sites have been sobriety in terms of the choice and utilization of materials in a 100% offset. In the United States, energy audits took place broad sense to manufacture and commercialize our diagnostic in 2019 at the St. Louis and Durham sites, with the aim of systems. The aim is to think about manufacturing, transportation, assessing insulation in buildings, establishing consumption use and end-of-life of our products right from the beginning of profiles of machinery, and reassessing that equipment the innovation process as part of a sustainable approach. consumption is aligned with production needs in order to take In 2019, a life cycle analysis of VIDAS® from the environmental actions for improvement. viewpoint was carried out in order to assess this instrument’s ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION environmental impact, essentially taking place during its 2019 PRIORITIES period of utilization. In 2020, we will conduct analyses of Our ambition is for all bioMérieux industrial sites to earn other products. In applying the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), ISO 14001 certification. By late 2019, nine sites had been certified bioMérieux has put in place special attention has been focused on monitoring actions ISO 14001:2015 (Marcy l’Étoile, Craponne, La Balme, SAVINGS DURING TRANSPORTATION internal rules and procedures to related to risk analysis and to the input of all new processing Saint-Vulbas, Tres Cantos, Florence, Combourg, Grenoble and AND DISTRIBUTION of personal data. Verniolle). The sites located in Durham, St. Louis and Lombard protect the Company against bioMérieux works closely with suppliers and logistics providers risks in connection with its (United States) will apply for certification in 2020. COMMITTED TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS to improve our HSE results. In 2018, we launched an HSE The bioMérieux Spain and bioMérieux Italy commercial roadmap to reduce the carbon footprint due to distribution. international industrial business KEY AREAS OF FOCUS: subsidiaries have also received ISO 14001 certification. Since 2017, for certain shipments on long distance transport, activity, and to provide employees maritime transportation has begun to replace air transportation, with the necessary tools to Preventing corruption going from 13% in 2017 to 30% in 2019. anticipate and manage such risks. Securing the distribution network Pivotal initiatives are designed to experiment with using alternative means of transportation to limit bioMérieux’s carbon The Company also carries out footprint. For the first time, in 2018 a shipment was transported initiatives to secure its network Preventing conflicts of interest by rail from France to Mongolia. In 2019, road transport instead of air shipment was used for delivery from the United States of partners. Applying export regulations to Mexico. Within the city of Paris, deliveries now take place exclusively using electric vehicles. Protecting patient data 62 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 63 l l l COMMITTED TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA A mandatory annual training program is attended by all bioMérieux has implemented and monitors a compliance employees, in addition to modules tailored to their specific program for the protection of personal data. function and risk exposure. Within the first few months of joining the Company, new hires receive training on the Global A network of data privacy representatives is active at all Code of Conduct, the Corruption Prevention Manual and the Company sites and subsidiaries and the global functions. The conflicts of interest policy. Each year, employees must validate network serves as the interface between the Data Protection a certificate of compliance with the rules of the Code of Conduct. Officer and the business entities, particularly as concerns In 2019, nearly 19,000 on-line training modules were provided compliance with the GDPR. to employees across all subsidiaries, including courses on the Every employee accessing personal data receives training Code of Conduct, fighting corruption and managing relationships and must adhere to the principles of these regulations. with third parties. The compliance plan can be found on our corporate website, www.biomerieux.com. ETHICSLINE: A DEDICATED HOTLINE FOR * A GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT EMPLOYEES ACROSS THE GLOBE AVAILABLE IN 9 LANGUAGES Any employee faced with an ethics question may contact a The Global Code of Conduct, which sets out Compliance Officer. Across the globe, employees can call a the rules of conduct and integrity and local hotline to speak to someone in their local language, or the procedures governing the behavior of send an email to a dedicated website to report any situation employees wherever bioMérieux conducts giving rise to concern. This system, which was introduced in business, is now available in 9 languages: France in 2014, has been rolled out in the 44 countries where English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, bioMérieux operates. Employees regularly receive messages German, Turkish, Russian and Chinese. about the EthicsLine and how to use it. GOVERNANCE The hotline is also available for customers and distributors. PREVENTING CORRUPTION STRENGTHENING OUR ORGANIZATION Risk mapping has been undertaken within each subsidiary so In a context of increasing geopolitical risk and ever more rapid that procedures to manage corruption risks may be analyzed, changes in market regulations – particularly those affecting improved and strengthened. In 2019, a global risk reduction exports – we have increased the number of Ethics & Compliance & FINANCIAL TABLES action plan was developed for each subsidiary. A new process employees worldwide and strengthened our organization. Local was introduced globally to identify third parties associated compliance teams, which are active at each of our sites, have with a high risk of corruption. taken on an increasingly important role to ensure that the Company’s global policies are adequately applied across all In 2019, a certification program for distributors of bioMérieux business entities. In addition, the local compliance “Champions” products was deployed. Each new distributor must adhere to appointed in 2018 received special compliance training in 2019. the program. In compliance with the French law on the corporate duty of RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING vigilance, bioMérieux will publish its vigilance plan for the first time in 2020. The plan includes reasonable vigilance measures As part of our commitment to the sustainable management designed to identify and prevent severe impacts on human of our relationships with partners, we engage our suppliers in rights and fundamental freedoms, the safety of persons and a continuous improvement approach and involve them in our the environment, as well as health risks resulting from sustainable growth strategy based on environmental protection, the companies’ activities and those of their subsidiaries, social progress and respect for human rights and ethics in subcontractors and suppliers, whether located in France or business. Our commitments to our suppliers and what we another country. expect of them are outlined in the Charter for Responsible Purchasing between bioMérieux and its Suppliers, which was updated in 2018. EMPLOYEE TRAINING We have stepped up our supplier evaluations by adding Training is one of the primary ways we build awareness among Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) criteria to the selection all bioMérieux employees about international rules and in-house process and by monitoring our strategic partners’ annual CSR procedures to promote respect for ethics and compliance. performance. After launching a supplier CSR assessment process in 2018, around 100 strategic suppliers, representing 23% of bioMérieux purchases, received a rating from the EcoVadis agency in 2019. TAX POLICY bioMérieux operates in more than 160 countries. The Company implements a responsible tax policy in compliance with applicable local and international rules. 64 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Since 2017, Alain Mérieux, Chairman and CEO of Institut Mérieux, is Founding President of bioMérieux. The Board of Directors, which met 4 times in 2019, is comprised of 9 members as of January 1, 2020: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ALEXANDRE MÉRIEUX Chairman and CEO, bioMérieux The Executive Committee is responsible for PHILIPPE ARCHINARD implementing the Company’s strategy decided Chairman and CEO, Transgene by the Board of Directors. It meets once every JEAN-LUC BELINGARD three months and monthly using telepresence Vice President, Institut Mérieux technology. HAROLD BOËL Chief Executive Officer, Sofina (Belgium) As of the date of publication of the annual report, the members are: MARIE-HÉLÈNE HABERT Director of Communication and Patronage, Dassault Group ALEXANDRE MÉRIEUX CORPORATE Chairman and CEO MARIE-PAULE KIENY INSERM Research Director; PIERRE BOULUD formerly Assistant Director General, Chief Operating Officer, World Health Organization GOVERNANCE Executive Vice President, Clinical Operations AGNÈS LEMARCHAND Director, various companies GUILLAUME BOUHOURS FANNY LETIER Executive Vice President, Co-founder of GENEO, capital entrepreneur CFO, Purchasing & Information Systems PIERRE CHARBONNIER FRÉDÉRIC BESÈME Executive Vice President, Director representing employees Global Quality, Manufacturing & Supply Chain FRANÇOIS LACOSTE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Vice President, R&D THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Comprised of Agnès Lemarchand, VALÉRIE LEYLDÉ Philippe Archinard and Harold Boël, Executive Vice President, who chairs this committee, Human Resources & Communications it met 6 times in 2019. MARK MILLER THE HUMAN RESOURCES, APPOINTMENTS Executive Vice President, AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Chief Medical Officer Comprised of Marie-Hélène Habert, Jean-Luc Belingard and YASHA MITROTTI Fanny Letier, who chairs this committee, Executive Vice President, it met 3 times in 2019. Industrial microbiology THE STRATEGY COMMITTEE ESTHER WICK Chaired by Jean-Luc Belingard, Executive Vice President, it is comprised of all directors. Legal, IP & Compliance It met twice in 2019. 66 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 67 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES R&D EXPENSES .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. in millions of euros by application in millions of euros .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2800 374 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,675 380 360 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2600 2,421 17% 1% 340 327 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2400 2,288 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OTHER LINES 320 303 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2200 25% 38% 300 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. MOLECULAR BIOLOGY MICROBIOLOGY 280 260 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2000 240 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1800 18% 220 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1600 IMMUNOASSAYS 200 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1400 180 160 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 140 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1200 Approximately 60% of sales were generated in clinical and 120 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1000 2017 2018 2019 industrial microbiology, two areas where bioMérieux is the world 100 2017 2018 2019 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. leader. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. In 2019, sales amounted to €2,675 million versus €2,421 million in In 2019, sales growth in molecular biology continued to be driven The Group invested €374 million in R&D expenses, representing .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2018, an increase of 7.2% at constant exchange rates and scope of by the success of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line (+20%). 14% of sales, as part of an ongoing drive to foster innovation. This .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. consolidation. Supported by the commercial strength of the VITEK® and BACT/ increase of around 9% at constant exchange rates and scope of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ALERT® lines, microbiology represented 38% of revenue, a rise of consolidation reflects the faster pace of development in .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. more than 5%. microbiology and the intensification of activity to support the .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME BREAKDOWN OF SALES WORKFORCE AS AT DECEMBER 31 * .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS * by geographical region in millions of euros 400 389 13000 380 360 361 12500 12000 ≈ 12,000 340 335 19% 11500 11,200 320 KEY FIGURES ASIA PACIFIC 11000 300 10500 10,400 280 260 36% 10000 EMEA* 9500 240 9000 220 200 8500 180 8000 160 45% 7500 7000 140 AMERICAS 120 6500 100 6000 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Contributive operating income reached €389 million, representing The Group’s growth was chie y driven by strong sales in the AsiaChanges in the workforce in 2019 mainly re ect the strengthening 14.5% of sales. It increased by nearly 7% compared to 2018, in line Pacific region, as well as microbiology and molecular biology lines, of BioFire Diagnostics’ industrial and commercial teams to support with annual targets. in particular BIOFIRE® the growth of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line, as well as the acquisition of Hybiome in Asia Pacific and Invisible Sentinel in the * Contributive operating income before non-recurring items corresponds to operating * Europe, Middle East, Africa. United States. income before non-recurring BioFire acquisition and integration costs and before accounting entries relating to the company’s purchase price allocation. * Full-time equivalent. NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO FREE CASH FLOW * CAPEX CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL THE PARENT COMPANY in millions of euros in millions of euros POSITION in millions of euros in millions of euros 290 273 190 179 280 2400 2,255 260 270 257 170 165 240 2200 2,002 250 238 220 72 2000 230 150 150 200 1800 210 180 57 1600 190 130 160 1400 170 140 51 1200 150 110 120 1000 130 100 800 90 80 110 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 60 130 166 201 EQUITY (IAS19R SINCE 2011) 600 90 70 40 400 70 20 200 50 50 OF WHICH PLACED INSTRUMENTS 0 OF WHICH BORROWINGS 0 366 317 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 ** 2019 2017 2018 2019 -200 2018 * 2019 Net income amounted to €273 million, up by 6.2% compared to Free cash flow came to €150 million in 2019, compared to around Capital expenditure outlays for the year represented €273 million, Net debt stood at €317 million at the end of the year, representing 2018, representing 10.2% of sales. €179 million in 2018. This drop may be explained by an increase in the result of the industrial investment strategy primarily intended only 14% of equity. investments, both in industrial capacity and the installed instrument to boost BIOFIRE® production capacity in Salt Lake City. The total This leaves a high degree of flexibility to promote the Group’s strategic base for customers. In addition, working capital requirements capital expenditures for the year represented around 10% of sales. ambitions. increased due to a rise in inventories. * Comparative data for 2018 have been restated to refl ect the application of the IFRS 9 * Cash Flow before acquisitions of companies, divested operations, share buyback programs standard. and dividends. ** Comparative data for 2018 have been restated to reflect the application of the IFRS 9 standard. 68 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 69 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. FINANCIAL .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 12/31/2018 ASSETS (In € millions) 12/31/2019 restated (1) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Intangible assets 508.4 526.0 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Goodwill 652,5 603.0 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. TABLES .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Property, plant and equipment 894,7 761.4 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Right of use 130,5 137.7 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Financial assets 41,9 66.9 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Investments in associates 0,2 0.3 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ......................................................................................................................... Other non-current assets 16,1 16.2 Deferred tax assets 99,0 78.5 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2,343.5 2,189.9 Inventories and work in progress 494.7 418.8 Accounts receivable 552.1 491.8 Other operating receivables 61.1 63.4 Tax receivable 42.3 39.2 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Non-operating receivables 13.3 12.9 Cash and cash equivalents 275.0 288.3 12/31/2018 In € millions 12/31/2019 restated (1) CURRENT ASSETS 1,438.5 1,314.4 NET SALES 2,674.8 2,421.3 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0,0 0,1 Cost of sales -1 208.2 -1 119.0 TOTAL ASSETS 3,781.9 3,504.4 GROSS PROFIT 1,466.6 1,302.3 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 45.9 31.2 12/31/2018 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY (In € millions) 12/31/2019 retraité (1) Selling and marketing expenses -567.6 -479.9 Share capital 12.0 12.0 General and administrative expenses -182.2 -163.2 Additional paid-in capital & Reserves 1,919.1 1,659.5 Research and development expenses -374.3 -326.9 Net income for the year 272.8 256.5 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES -1,124.1 -970.0 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 2,203.9 1,928.0 CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME 388.5 363.5 MINORITY INTERESTS 50.7 74.0 BioFire acquisition’s fees and depreciation costs (2) -17.9 -17.5 TOTAL EQUITY 2,254.6 2,002.1 OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 370.7 346.0 Net financial debt long-term 153.7 524.9 Deferred tax liabilities 141.2 134.2 Other non-recurring income (expenses) 0.0 0.2 Provisions 62.3 47.1 OPERATING INCOME 370.7 346.1 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 357.2 706.1 Cost of net financial debt -20.6 -21.3 Net financial debt short-term 438.6 129.1 Other financial items -2.5 -4.5 Provisions 47.0 45.0 Income tax -77.8 -65.1 Accounts payable 211.9 179.7 Investments in associates 0.0 0.2 Other operating liabilities 381.1 352.2 NET INCOME OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 269.7 255.4 Tax liabilities 32.3 33.5 Attributable to the minority interests -3.1 -1.1 Non-operating liabilities 59.3 56.9 NET INCOME, GROUP SHARE 272.8 256.5 CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,170.1 796.3 LIABILITIES RELATED TO ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0.0 0.0 Basic earnings per share 2.31 € 2.18 € Diluted earnings per share 2.30 € 2.17 € TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 3,781.9 3,504.4 n (1) Comparative data for 2018 have been restated to reflect the first-time application of IFRS 16. n (2) Non-recurring items relating to the acquisition and integration of BioFire, and accounting entries n (1) Comparative data for 2018 have been restated to reflect the first-time application of IFRS 16. relating to the BioFire purchase price allocation. 70 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 71 l l l FINANCIAL TABLES CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE 12/31/2018 * SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE IN 2019 * In € millions 12/31/2019 restated (1) 90 € Net income of consolidated companies 269.7 255.3 Investments in associates 0.0 -0.2 85 € Cost of net financial debt 20.6 21.4 80 € Other financial items 2.5 4.5 Current income tax expense 77.8 65.0 75 € Operating depreciation and provisions on assets 189.5 177.0 Non-recurring items and BioFire acquisition’s fees and depreciation costs 17.8 17.4 70 € EBITDA (before non-recurring items) 577.9 540.4 65 € Other non current operating gains/losses -0.1 0.1 (w/o exceptional depreciations, assets losses and capital gains/losses) 60 € Other financial items -2.0 -4.6 (w/o accruals & disposal of financial assets) 55 € Operating provisions for risks and contingencies -6.8 -47.8 Change in fair value of financial instruments -1.4 0.3 bioMérieux 38% 50 € Share-based payments 9.4 6.7 CAC40 26% Elimination of other gains and losses without any impact on cash or operations -0.9 -45.3 4 €5 SBF120 25% EURO STOXX® Healthcare Index 24% Change in inventories -71.0 -26.9 40 € Change in accounts receivable -57.3 -30.6 January 19 February 19 March 19 April 19 May 19 June 19 July 19 August 19 September 19 October 19 November 19 Décember 19 Change in accounts payable 32.9 13.1 Change in other operating working capital 26.0 36.0 Change in operating working capital (2) -69.4 -8.4 * Indexes rebased on bioMérieux’s stock price as at 12/31/2018 (€57,50). Other non operating working capital 2.1 1.8 Change in non-current assets 0.4 -1.5 * BREAKDOWN OF CAPITAL * THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE Other cash flows from operation -66.9 -8.1 as at December 31, 2019 bioMérieux shares have been traded publicly since July 6, 2004 in Income tax paid -81.6 -65.8 the CAC Mid 60®, SBF 120®, CAC Mid & Small®, CAC All-tradable® Cost of net financial debt -20.6 -21.4 35% and CAC All-Share® French market indices. In addition, bioMérieux has FLOATING & 59% been included in new indices since 2017, specifically MSCI France NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 407.9 399.8 OWN SHARES INSTITUT MÉRIEUX Index and STOXX® Europe 600. The Company’s shares are listed Purchase of property, plant and equipment -272.5 -226.4 on compartment “A” of the Eurolist market and are eligible for < 1% EMPLOYEES deferred settlement service (Service de Règlement Différé – SRD). Proceeds on fixed asset disposals 17.1 5.4 bioMérieux’s social and environmental commitment has been Purchase of financial assets / Disposals of financial assets -2.4 0.0 5% recognised for a number of years by non-financial rating agencies FREE CASH FLOW (3) 150.1 178.8 GROUPE INDUSTRIEL that evaluate its CSR performance and have included it in their SRI MARCEL DASSAULT (socially-responsible investing) indicators. In particular, bioMérieux Purchase / Disposals related to minority interests 48.4 -5.4 has been evaluated by the following agencies: ISS ESG, FTSE Russell Impact of changes in the scope of consolidation -72.8 -186.7 (FTSE4Good Index), Vigeo Eiris, CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), NET CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES -282.2 -413.1 * CALENDAR OF EVENTS 2020 Forum Ethibel (Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe), EcoVadis and Corporate Knights Global 100 Index. Purchases and proceeds of treasury stocks 0.0 -22.3 February 26, 2020 * F ourth-quarter 2019 sales and At December 31, 2019, the closing price for the bioMérieux share was Dividends to shareholders -41.3 -40.2 2019 financial results €79.35 (€57.50 at December 31, 2018), and the Company’s market Change in confirmed financial debt -69.2 105.5 capitalisation was €9.4 billion. April 16, 2020 * F irst-quarter 2020 revenues Variation of interests without taking or loss of control -23.5 0.0 In 2019, 23,879,941 of the Company’s shares were traded on (before start of trading) Euronext compared with 30,711,238 in 2018. NET CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES -133.9 43.0 June 30, 2020 * Annual General Meeting NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -8.2 29.7 September 2, 2020 * S  econd-quarter 2020 revenues and * INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT first-half 2020 results NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 278.2 260.4 (before start of trading) Sylvain Morgeau Impact of currency changes on net cash and cash equivalents -6.1 -11.8 Phone: +33 (0)4 78 87 22 37 • Email: investor.relations@biomerieux.com October 20, 2020 * T  hird-quarter 2020 revenues The Universal Registration Document approved by the AMF is available NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 264.0 278.2 (before start of trading) upon request or on our Web site: www.biomerieux.com n (1) Comparative data for 2018 have been restated to reflect the first-time application of IFRS 16. n (2) Including additions to and reversals of current provisions. n (3) Available cash flow is defined as cash flow from operating activities plus cash flow from investing activities, excluding net cash and cash equivalents from acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries. 72 BIOMÉRIEUX • 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 73 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. GLOSSARY REFERENCES .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Endotoxin n Component of the outer membrane of certain .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ............................................... Gram-negative bacteria that can cause high fevers. Pharmacopoeial .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. standards require that endotoxins be absent from pharmaceutical products that come into contact with the bloodstream or the central nervous system, such as injectable drugs and medical devices. It is also recommended that the endotoxins be quantified in raw materials or in-process materials. PAGE 13 PAGE 21 Healthcare-Associated Infection (HAI) n HAIs are infections Acute kidney injury (AKI) n Abrupt loss of kidney function that occurring in a patient during the process of care in a hospital n 1) Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: Final report and n 12) GBD 2017 Disease and Injury Incidence and Prevalence develops within 7 days, it is a broad clinical syndrome encompassing (or other healthcare facility) that were not present at the time of recommendations, The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance, Collaborators. Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, various etiologies, including specific kidney diseases, which can admission and are directly related to the care received. Chaired by Jim O’Neill, May 2016. and years lived with disability for 354 diseases and injuries for occur in the community, as well as in the hospital or ICU. AKI can be n 2) Press release from the World Bank: “By 2050, drug-resistant 195 countries and territories, 1990-2017: a systematic analysis Immunoassay n Diagnostic test based on an antigen/antibody for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017. Lancet. 2018 10;392 prevented through early detection and rapid treatment. infections could cause global economic damage on par with 2008 reaction, enabling the detection of infectious agents (bacteria, (10159):1789-1858. financial crisis,” September 19, 2016. Antibiotic resistance n A microorganism’s natural ability to viruses, parasites) and pathogen markers. n 13) Global Health Estimates 2016: deaths by cause, age, sex, withstand the effects of antibiotics: taking an antibiotic puts selective PAGE 17 by country and by region, 2000-2016. Geneva, World Health In vitro diagnostics n Analysis of biological samples (urine, blood, pressure on bacteria, eliminating bacteria that are susceptible to Organization; 2018. etc.) performed outside the human body. n 3) Global, regional, and national sepsis incidence and mortality, the antibiotic and selecting resistant bacteria, which then multiply. 1990–2017: analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study. n 14) McDermott KW, Elixhauser A, Sun R. Trends in hospital The widespread and often inappropriate use of antibiotics contriMass spectrometry n Technique used to identify a molecule and Kristina E Rudd, MD, Sarah Charlotte Johnson, MSc, Kareha M inpatient stays in the United States, 2005–2014. HCUP Statistical butes to rising rates of antibiotic resistance, which is one of the determine its chemical structure by analyzing the mass and the Agesa, BA, Katya Anne Shackelford, BA, Derrick Tsoi, BS Daniel Brief #225. June 2017. Agency for Healthcare Research and biggest threats to public health worldwide. charge of its ions. Rhodes Kievlan, MD et al. The Lancet, volume 395, issue 10219, Quality, Rockville, MD. Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing n Determines the susceptibility Microbiology n The study of microorganisms. In the field of in vitro P200-211, January 18, 2020. https://www.thelancet.com/journ 15) https://www.who.int/fr/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ of a bacterium in the presence of antibiotics and classifies it as diagnostics: culturing biological, food and pharmaceutical samples nals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(19)32989-7/fulltext. pneumonia susceptible, resistant or intermediate. in growth medium allows any bacteria that may be present to multiply. The bacteria are subsequently identified and their suscepPAGE 19 Biomarker n Any indicator (nucleic acids, enzymes, metabolites and PAGE 22 tibility to antibiotics tested in certain cases. n 4) Mehta RL, Kellum JA, Shah SV, Molitoris BA, Ronco C, other types of molecules: histamines, hormones, proteins, etc.) present n 16) Serial Procalcitonin Predicts Mortality in Severe Sepsis Warnock DG, Levin A (2007). “Acute Kidney Injury Network: in or excreted by the body as a biological response to a disease. Molecular Biology n Technique that can detect a bacterium, virus, Patients: Results From the Multicenter Procalcitonin MOnitoring report of an initiative to improve outcomes in acute kidney injury”. yeast, parasite or a biomarker through the presence of DNA or RNA SEpsis (MOSES) Study. Schuetz P, Birkhahn R, Sherwin R et al. Blood culture n Laboratory analysis used to detect bloodstream Critical Care (Londres, Angleterre). 11 (2): R31. genetic sequences in a sample. Crit Care Med. 2017 May;45(5):781-789. infections, carried out by taking a sample of venous blood, which is then n 5) Hoste EAJ et al. Acute Renal Failure in Patients with Sepsis cultured to reveal the presence or absence of pathogenic microbes. Pathogen n A microbe that causes or has the potential to cause an in a Surgical ICU: Predictive Factors, Incidence, Comorbidity, PAGE 36 infectious disease. and Outcome. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003;14:1022-1030. Coronavirus MERS-CoV n Middle East respiratory syndrome n 17) Extensive Gene Amplification as a Mechanism for coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first identified in September 2012 in PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) n Molecular biology technology n 6) Kidney International Supplements (2012) 2, 19–36. Siew Piperacillin-Tazobactam Resistance in Escherichia coli, Saudi Arabia and is responsible for the Middle East respiratory for in vitro amplification of genetic sequences, used to copy known ED, Davenport A: The growth of acute kidney injury: a rising tide Schechter LM, Creely DP, Garner CD, Shortridge D, Nguyen H, syndrome (MERS). Among people affected by the disease, sympDNA or RNA sequences in large quantities (by an order of magnitude or just closer attention to detail? Kidney Int 2015;87:46-61. Chen L, Hanson BM, Sodergren E, Weinstock GM, Dunne WM Jr, toms include fever, coughing and shortness of breath, as well as of a billion) from an initially small quantity. This technology is n 7) O’Connor ME, Kirwan CJ, Pearse RM, Prowle JR: Incidence van Belkum A, Leopold SR. mBio. 2018 Apr 24;9(2). pii: e00583-18. gastrointestinal symptoms in some cases. Approximately 35% of particularly useful for detecting the presence of viruses. and associations of acute kidney injury after major abdominal doi:10.1128/mBio.00583-18. reported patients with MERS-CoV infection have died. surgery. Intensive Care Med 2016;42:521-530. PCT (Procalcitonin) n An early and specific host marker of a PAGE 43 Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 n This coronavirus, which is responsible bacterial infection, PCT is useful to adapt antimicrobial prescriptions. n 8) Susantitaphong P, Cruz DN, Cerda J, Abulfaraj M, Alqahtani F, n 18) Point prevalence survey of antimicrobial use and healthfor the Covid 19 pandemic, causes an acute respiratory infection Koulouridis I, Jaber BL: World incidence of AKI: a meta-analysis. Plague n This zoonotic disease, caused by the bacterium Yersinia care-associated infections in Belgian acute care hospitals: (fever, cough), breathing difficulties, and pulmonary complications Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2013;8:1482-1493. pestis, is most often transmitted by fleas from rodents to humans, results of the Global-PPS and ECDC-PPS 2017, Vandael E, such as pneumonia, as well as more severe forms. The frequency of and also from person to person via respiratory droplets. PAGE 20 Latour K, Goossens H, Magerman K, Drapier N, Catry B, the most severe forms is between 17% and 23%; they lead to death Versporten A; Belgian Point Prevalence Survey Study Group, in 2% to 3% of cases. Sepsis n A serious systemic infection characterized by the presence n 9) Guzzi, L.M., Bergler, T., Binnall, B. et al. Clinical use of Antimicrobial Resistance & Infection Control, 2020. 13;9:13. of bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites in the blood and combined [TIMP-2]•[IGFBP7] biomarker testing to assess risk of acute Dengue n Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by the Aedes with an inflammatory immune-reaction (host response) that can kidney injury in critical care: guidance from an expert panel. mosquito that causes °flu-like symptoms. A person with dengue may result in the rapid deterioration of the patient’s general condition Crit Care 23, 225 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13054-019develop life-threatening complications. leading to possible organ failure. 2504-8. DNA Sequencing n Method used to determine the order of the n 10) Berdugo MA, et al, Journal of Medical Economics, 2019, Syndromic approach n Medical approach based on analyzing a nucleotide bases for a given DNA fragment. VOL. 22, NO. 12, 1281–1289, DOI:10.1080/13696998.2019.1636053. syndrome (i.e., a set of symptoms and/or clinical signs) that uses a Ebola virus disease n Serious, often deadly disease in humans. single test to identify the disease-causing organism(s) responsible n 11) Engelman DT, Ben Ali W, Williams JB, et al. Guidelines for The virus is initially transmitted from wild animals to humans and then for this syndrome, whether they are viruses, bacteria, fungi or Perioperative Care in Cardiac Surgery: Enhanced Recovery After spreads among the population through person to person contact. parasites. Surgery Society Recommendations. JAMA Surg. Published online May 04, 2019. doi:10.1001/jamasurg.2019.1153. 74 06/20 • 9318393 022/GB/Q • This document and/or pictures are not legally binding; modifications by bioMérieux can be made without prior notice • BIOMERIEUX, the blue logo, ARGENE, BACT/ALERT, BIOFIRE, CHROMID, DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER, ENDOZYME II GO, ETEST, FILMARRAY, MYLA, NEPHROCHECK, PIONEERING DIAGNOSTICS, RAPIDEC, R-GENE, SCANRDI, VERIFLOW, VIDAS, VIRTUO and VITEK are used, pending and/or registered trademarks belonging to bioMérieux S.A., to one of its subsidiaries or companies • B·R·A·H·M·S PCT is the property of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and its subsidiaries • WASP and WASPLab are the property of COPAN Italia • SBF 120 is the property of EURONEXT PARIS SA • Any other name or trademark mentioned in this document is the property of its respective owner. PHOTOS: N. Bouchut, F. Dubray, C. Ganet, A. Gourmelon, J.P. Mesguen, Mr Paparazzo, B. Dauchez Institut de France, Pierre Rapey, bioMérieux, Fondation Mérieux, Fotolia, GettyImages, iStock. bioMérieux S.A. 673 620 399 RCS Lyon • Printed in France on recycled paper • théra • RCS Lyon B 398 160 242 76 • ALGERIA • GERMANY • RUSSIA • ARGENTINA • GREECE • SERBIA • AUSTRALIA • HUNGARY • SINGAPORE • AUSTRIA • INDIA • SOUTH AFRICA • BELGIUM • ITALY • SPAIN • BRAZIL • IVORY COAST • SWEDEN • CANADA • JAPAN • SWITZERLAND • CHILE • KENYA • THAILAND • CHINA • KOREA • THE NETHERLANDS • COLOMBIA • MALAYSIA • TURKEY • CZECH REPUBLIC • MEXICO • UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • DENMARK • NORWAY • UNITED KINGDOM • EGYPT • PHILIPPINES • USA • FINLAND • POLAND • VIETNAM • FRANCE • PORTUGAL bioMérieux S.A. • 69280 Marcy l’Étoile • France • Tel.: + 33 (0)4 78 87 20 00 • Fax: +33 (0)4 78 87 20 90 www.biomerieux.com
