Sustainability Report 2019 Natural Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Contents LETTER FROM CEO 03 2019 A YEAR TO MOVE FORWARD 05 1 WHO WE ARE 08 1.1 LABORATORIOS MAVERICK, A LONG HISTORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 09 1.2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 12 1.3 A CORPORATE CULTURE FOCUSED ON ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 1.4 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT 18 2 SUSTAINABILITY, THE AXIS OF OUR BUSINESS CULTURE 20 2.1 COMMITTED TO SOCIAL WELFARE AND THE ENVIRONMENT 23 2.2 OUR SUPPLIERS, KEY ELEMENT OF OUR SUCCESS 27 3 OUR PROFESSIONAL TEAM: THE ENGINE THAT MOVES US 30 3.1 COMMITTED TO OUR PEOPLE 31 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 35 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES 38 4 WE IMPROVE OUR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 44 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 46 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT 49 5 COMMITTED TO THE ENVIRONMENT 53 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 55 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 56 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION 58 6 ABOUT THE REPORT 63 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS 63 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX 68 7.1 GENERAL CONTENTS 68 7.2 MATERIAL TOPICS 72 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE OF CONTENTS 78 Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the CEO We are in the midst of natural transformation and Grupo Ubesol’s business strategy confirms this: we are making sustainability a fundamental pillar of our activity. (102-14) This year, we have taken another step towards our For the first time, in this Sustainability Report, we firm commitment to sustainability. We renew our collect each of the projects and actions that we have commitment to the United Nations Global worked on in recent years to help build, playing our Compact. As evidence of this, our sustainability report part, a better planet and society. To do this, we shows our willingness to consolidate, develop and have followed the methodology and standards of the implement good practices that are aligned with our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the most widely used activity and that help us advance in our commitment reporting framework in the world. to sustainability and with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. At Laboratorios Maverick we have established a work path that allows us to promote sustainability In addition, as an important symbolic gesture for the throughout the entire value chain. We want to be group, we have transformed our entire corporate a company recognized for our commitment to identity from the original blue of 40 years ago quality, innovation and, specially, sustainable to the colour green, so that our logo also represents development. this paradigm shift. 03 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In this sense, during the past year we have consolidated research of new eco-responsible materials, managing our corporate commitment through participation to incorporate 25% rPET or recycled plastic into our in alliances and initiatives that promote hand soap bottles. We are also manufacturing and sustainability: we are members of the Global distributing rPET bottles for food products. Furthermore, Compact Spanish Network and the Roundtable on we are developing a broad portfolio of sustainable Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Likewise, we satisfactorily products and part of them will meet with requirements carried out the ethical audit SMETA by SEDEX, and we of COSMOS certification. have started to assess our supply chain with EcoVadis. In addition, as part of our commitment to the well-being 2019 has been a year of great transformation and of our professional team, we obtained the ISO 45001 preparation to keep moving forward. My most sincere certification for the management of health and safety appreciation to each and every one of the group’s at work. employees, they are the ones who make this possible, and to those who, with their commitment and dedication, During 2019, two out of three Spanish households ensure that our company continues to establish itself as a purchased a product from Laboratorios Maverick. quality, responsible and sustainable business. Our priority is to continue offering the highest quality, innovative and sustainable products. Under this premise we are making progress in the renewal of our products with improvements #TogetherWeAddUp in formula and packaging. We have introduced #JuntosSumamos new hair products to the market with a high content of natural origin ingredients, as well as 0% aluminium alternatives for our deodorants. We are investing in the Jorge Úbeda 04 CEO Grupo Ubesol Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2019 a year (102-7) to move forward Our business • Turnover growth vs. previous year: 7.6% • 100 % national ownership and capital + than 126 • 2 facilities equipped with the highest technology million euros in sales • 1 central office (7.6% more than in 2018) Our products • More than 155 million of units manufactured • More than 250 references +100 • 100 % national production • Presence on the shelves of the leading supermarket in Spain new releases during 2019 • Sales in Spain, Portugal and Romania Development, innovation and quality • One of the largest R&D&I department in the national sector 2.3 million • 50 people guaranteeing the quality of our products euros invested • More than 400 tests listening to more than 5,700 in research and consumers 05 development Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our team 48,4 % 51,6 % 448 people Women Men are part of our • 95,8 % with a permanent contract team Our suppliers • More than 180 suppliers + than 80 • 67 % in Spain million euros • We started a suppliers’ assessment using sustainability in purchases of criteria materials and raw materials Commitment to the environment We consume electricity from 100% renewable sources 92 % of • 4.8 % decrease in our water consumption the cardboard • We reduced non-hazardous waste by 8 % we use is recycled 06 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our contribution to the SDGs ODS • We carried out more than 30 actual actions in 11 of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 07 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1 Who we are We are committed to family well-being, offering innovative solutions, with the highest quality, guaranteeing the best price and respecting the environment. 1.1 Laboratorios Maverick, a long history of quality and commitment 09 1.2 Responsible business 12 1.3 A corporate culture focused on ethics, integrity and good corporate governance 15 08 1.4 Involved with the sector and the environment 18 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.1 LABORATORIOS MAVERICK, A LONG HISTORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT WE ARE SPECIALISTS DEVELOPING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE AND SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS (102-1, 102-4, 102-10) We are a company founded in 1991 that designs, develops and markets cosmetic and perfumery products. Since 2006, we are part of the Valencian business group Ubesol. We work for distribution companies in the consumer cosmetics sector in Spain, Portugal and Romania. (102-2) At Laboratorios Maverick we seek excellence in all our references. We are specialists in the development of products that are distributed for the customer sector in the following categories: Hair care, hygiene and fixation We have a complete range of specialized hair products to clean, condition, hydrate, care for, protect, and facilitate fixing. Shower gels We offer a wide range of bath gels adapted for the whole family and all skin types. 09 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Deodorants We have different products for protection against sweat; spray, roll-on, stick and cream, for men, women and unisex. Hand soaps We design multiple references with a diversity of fragrances and textures, with customers in mind, and adapted to all skin types. Hair removal and shaving We have a complete range of products for hair removal, shave and aftershave, according to the type of skin and preferred format. Intimate hygiene We offer products that facilitate hygiene and intimate area care, respecting consumer balance and well-being. Baby care and hygiene We have the ideal products for the little ones care and hygiene respecting the most sensitive skins. Children We offer a complete line of products for boys and girls that includes, among others, products for their hair and hygiene. Fresh perfumes We have a complete line of fresh perfumes ideal for the whole family. 10 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-4) Laboratorios Maverick has three locations, distributed as follows: 2 3 1 1 Grupo Ubesol Atzeneta d´Albaida Valencia Headquarters. 2 Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona Tarragona Products for personal care and hygiene development and manufacture. 3 Laboratorios Maverick Madrid San Fernando de Henares Products for personal care and hygiene manufacture. 11 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 1.2.1 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL ALLOWS US TO GENERATE INNOVATIVE, SUSTAINABLE AND SHARED GROWTH WITH SOCIETY Focused on the wellbeing of our final customer, we have consolidated a business management model that guarantees the satisfaction and expectation fulfilment of all those involved in our value chain. This action model helps us to build solid and stable trustful relationships. The five components of our business management model and paradigm are described below: Customer We seek to offer a portfolio of quality, innovative and sustainable products that respond to your needs and wishes. Employee We want to be an excellent place to work, a place where people feel inspired to give their best every day, and a place where their personal and professional development is fostered. We want to ensure your well-being in a healthy a safe work environment. Supplier We want to develop long-lasting relationships with suppliers who share our values, promoting beneficial results for both of us. Society We want to be a company recognized for its quality, innovation, and commitment to the sustainable development of people and the environment adding value and making a difference by helping build and support a sustainable planet and society. Capital We seek to generate results that allow the growth and sustainability of the company to be maintained over time, for the safety and benefit, of the people who make it and the customers it serves. 12 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.2.2 LABORATORIOS MAVERICK’S PILLARS WE WORK EVERY DAY WITH AN INNOVATIVE SPIRIT Our purpose as well as our values and principles are the basis of who we are. It is the reason why we do things. (102-16) Mission To be specialists developing and manufacturing innovative and sustainable products that solve our clients’ needs, with the highest quality and always at the best possible price. Vision To be a leader company, respected and admired, that people want to belong to, and that offers innovative and sustainable products of the highest quality, obtaining the highest degree of satisfaction from our customers. Values Our values are an essential part of our identity, they reflect our commitment to the pillars on which our business culture is based. RESPONSIBILITY AND HONESTY We are able to self-direct and work with passion, being honest in our words and deeds. EFFICACY AND TEAMPATHY INNOVATION (Teamwork + Committed with a Empathy) spirit of improvement, OUR We promote teamwork to continuously improve and VALUES based on trust, collaboration and by devise creative and maintaining a positive challenging projects. attitude. LEADERSHIP We are humble, honest and committed leaders, with a service 13 vocation. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-9) COMMITTED TO GENERATING VALUE THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESS Our business strategy encompasses all the actors in our value chain. We work to develop a chain that is made up of the best, promoting innovation, collaboration and value generation at all levels. OUR VALUE CHAIN PEOPLE “Happy people, happy products” Our professionals are the engine that makes us grow and be more competitive. Their well-being is our priority. CUSTOMER We listen and study the needs of our customers, knowing today what they will want tomorrow, in order to develop products of the highest quality at the best possible price. SUPPLIER We develop long-lasting relationships with them, allowing us to guarantee the highest quality and safety of the product and service. PRODUCTION ProductionP Packaging Finished product QA SERVICE Flexibility and speed of service. Design of sustainable logistics that allow us to optimize the volume of truck loads to the maximum. CLIENT • Complete client support • Cosmetics vigilance service • Customer service system 14 People Quality Sustainability Innovation Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our system ensures that an effective compliance culture is implemented, which goes beyond regulatory compliance, through an ethical framework. We want all our professionals to act in accordance with behaviors based on honesty and integrity. 1.3 A CORPORATE CULTURE FOCUSED ON ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS (102-16, 102-17) We have established clear and rigorous procedures, codes and policies that guide and regulate the behaviour of the people involved with our daily activities, to avoid corruption cases or unfair practices, and to know how to act in the event that they occur. One of Grupo Ubesol’s goals with society, its employees and suppliers, is the principle of transparency, and we reject any type of unethical practice. Our framework of ethical action is made up of the following elements among others: Ethics code Approved by the Administrative Body in 2018. Its main objective is to establish the values that should guide the behaviour of Ubesol, SL and Laboratorios Maverick, SLU (hereinafter, Grupo Ubesol) and the third parties with which it is related, as well as strengthening business conduct accepted and respected by all Group employees, managers, and administrators. Compliance area Grupo Ubesol decided in 2018 to implement a compliance management system based on the international standard UNE-19601 on Criminal Compliance Management Systems and UNE ISO 19600 Compliance Management Systems. As a sign of the Management’s commitment to compliance, not only was the ethics 15 code approved, but a Chief Compliance Officer was appointed in accordance with the provisions of Art. 31 bis, 2, 2 of the Penal Code. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Commission and Compliance Links The Chief Compliance Officer has the support of the Compliance Liaisons, responsible for the Group’s risk areas. It also has the support of the Compliance Commission made up of those responsible for the main risk areas, who provide support and help in their work. Ethical Channel Since 2019 Grupo Ubesol has a confidential channel (hereinafter the Ethical Channel) managed by the Chief Compliance Officer. This Ethical Channel is available to all its employees, executives, members of the Administration body, temporary staff and interns. Any queries or complaints, deem necessary, can be sent through the e-mail address provided. As such, they can fulfil the obligation established in the ethics Code of communicating any suspicion or violation of any legal or internal rule, of which they are aware. Harassment Protocol The main objective of the harassment protocol is to protect the health of employees by ensuring psychosocially healthy environments and offer the necessary help to affected employees. Grupo Ubesol assumes that the attitudes and acts of moral or labour, sexual and gender-based harassment are an attack on the dignity of the employees. For this purpose, in 2018, the Group updated its action protocol, opening a channel for each of its companies, with the aim of ensuring that every employee is able to report the situation. During 2019, we completed the implementation of the compliance pillars model in accordance to the provisions of Art. 31 bis 5 of the Penal Code. Also, the assessment of the normative risks and criminal risks of Ubesol were updated through the identification and analysis of the applicable regulations, as well as the processes and controls established internally by the company. Additionally, we have spread the culture of compliance to all employees, with the aim of guaranteeing at all times a corporate environment of “zero tolerance” towards the Grupo Ubesol Crime Commission. In addition, we developed internal policies and procedures with the aim of improving the Compliance System, including the Anti-Corruption Policy, the Conflict of Interest Policy and the Policy on the Use of Technological Media and Social Networks. 16 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-18) Governing bodies Laboratorios Maverick, as a subsidiary of Grupo Ubesol, is managed by Sancana Gestión de Inversiones S.L. and Gestión de Inversiones, Jorisa S.L. These, as Solidarity Administrators, oversee management, organisation and representation of the company through the corresponding individuals designated in each of them. Together with the Management Committee, renewed at the end of 2019, they promote and supervise the general guidelines, the proper functioning of the organization, and compliance with the established policies and procedures. Organisational chart José Luis Soler Jorge E. Úbeda Jorge Úbeda Honorary President Vice President CEO Grupo Ubesol Grupo Ubesol Grupo Ubesol Toni Guerola Pedro Pérez María Luisa Soler Managing Director Managing Director General Director, 17 Ubesol Laboratorios Maverick Administration, Finance and Legal Grupo Ubesol Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.4 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT WE STRENGTHEN TIES TO GENERATE MUTUAL BENEFIT. WE WANT TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT (102-13) We promote different collaborations and alliances to respond to the needs of stakeholders and society. We are convinced that alliances favour the sustainable development of the business and our environment. We are part of different institutions that have a special relevance in the cosmetics and perfumery sector: Description Association made up of entities that manufacture and distribute perfumes, cosmetics and personal care products in the country. Its objective is to offer specialized technical, scientific, legal, labor and training information and advice, as well as helping to internationalize companies activity. Non-profit association that encompasses various sectors of the aerosol industry in Spain and its objective is the investigation and promotion of aerosol. We participate in the governing body. Partnerships for sustainability (102-12) In the past two years we have subscribed to different initiatives that reiterate our commitment to sustainability. Principle, program or initiative Adoption Stakeholders Type of date involved initiative United Nations Global Compact May 2019 All Voluntary Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) August 2018 All Voluntary Solidarity fee in corporation tax April 2018 Society Voluntary 18 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019 we carried out partnerships and joint work with different organizations to continue consolidating our culture of innovation and guarantee the best quality in our products. 19 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2 the axis of our business culture Sustainability, We have established a work route to promote the sustainability of our products and activities throughout the entire value chain. 2.1 Committed to social welfare and the environment 23 2.2 Our suppliers, key element of our success 27 20 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 WE SEEK THE BALANCE BETWEEN SOCIAL WELFARE, ENVIRONMENTAL CARE AND ECONOMIC GROWTH. We consider sustainability part of our strategy and recognize its importance. We want to highlight the commitment and effort we make to return to society part of what we receive from it. Our main priorities in terms of sustainability have been established in the following phases: Phase 1: Priorization During 2018 and 2019 we carried out a first phase in which the priorities and main lines of action have been established: We consolidate our corporate commitment through the definition of policies and codes, such as the Ethics Code and People Policies We participate in alliances that reinforce our commitment to sustainability: • Adhesion to the Global Compact Spanish Network. • Regular member of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) We carry out the SMETA audit by SEDEX, one of the most widely used ethical audit formats globally. We reaffirm our commitment to continue developing natural and sustainable products. We began the supplier assessment process from the point of view of sustainability, being recognized with a silver medal by EcoVadis. 21 We concluded the ISO 45001 certification process. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Phase 2: Deployment For 2020 a deployment stage has been defined that incorporates, among others, the following actions: We want to improve energy and water consumption and reduce waste production, as well as, reduce CO2 emissions throughout our production lines and logistics chains. Advance in the promotion of sustainable suppliers and we have the goal to increase raw materials and materials consumption from renewable sources. We have a short-term plan to increase the consumption of RSPO materials, FSC cardboard, among others. We continue with the improvement in the verification of zero deposit to landfill. Communicate our commitment to our stakeholders through independent and globally recognized reports and certifications, such as: SMETA, 4 Pillars, EcoVadis and United Nations Global Compact, among others. Provide improvements in the formulas and packaging of all our products upgrades and new products. Offer, transmit and advise customers on the sustainable use of cosmetics. Promote sustainability throughout the value chain and promote social improvements in the area. Implement plans to promote our employees wellbeing, promote gender equality and guarantee support 22 for at-risk groups. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2.1 COMMITTED TO SOCIAL WELFARE AND THE ENVIRONMENT WE WANT TO BE A COMPANY RECOGNIZED FOR OUR QUALITY, INNOVATION AND OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The 2030 Agenda is a universal, inclusive and indivisible agenda that requires everyone’s action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Sustainable Development Goals, a commitment for Laboratorios Maverick We want to make a difference, and therefore, we are considering the Sustainable Development Goals in each of our actions. In latest years we have been carrying out actions and defining policies and objectives that contribute directly to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Specifically, we are contributing through our activity to 11 of the 17 SDGs. 23 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 The following table summarizes the main actions and contributions made within the framework of the 2030 Agenda. • We invested in “Proyecto Cuídate” (Take Care Project), in which we promote a healthy professional and personal lifestyle. • We strive to create a safe and healthy environment, taking into account both physical and psychosocial risks.With the aim of assessing the health of the organisation and establishing a plan for improvement in the short and medium term, we carried out two employees surveys during 2019. • We have implemented the fruit day in which fruit is made available to employees and a picnic area is set up outside. • We carried out a tobacco prevention campaign in collaboration with the Spanish Association Against Cancer. • We carry out regular training on health and safety for all employees. • We have an Equality Plan. • We have a Remuneration Policy based on the employee position, skills and training. • We carry out the our wastewater management and treatment. • We promote employees sustainable water management and in the development of the organisation’s activity. • We have established good practices for energy saving such as conducting energy audits. • We started the implementation of the ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management System. • We are committed to the job stability of our employees by promoting permanent hiring. • We have a remuneration with wages above the market. 24 • We have launched “Plan Concilia” (Balance Plan). • We favour empathy and teamwork. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 • We train our employees in new technologies. • We have 50 specialized professionals and development experts to optimize our manufacturing processes and increase productivity, efficiency and innovation. • We advance in the company digitization process. • We carry out the adaptation of facilities and equipment to improve productivity and consumption. • We have control of our environmental impact through the ISO 14001 certification. • We started the assessment of sustainable suppliers: with EcoVadis and with the SMETA audit. • We promote and carry out communication campaigns of good packaging management practices aimed at our customers. • We recognize the importance and promote the use of biodegradable, recyclable or reusable materials in our products and services. • We have 35 references of our products certified by The Vegan Society. • We are making progress using recycled PET: our hand soap bottles use 25% recycled PET. • We consume electricity from 100% renewable sources. • We continue with the improvement in the verification of zero deposit to landfill. • We have removed microplastics in our products’ formulas. • We carry out awareness-raising actions so that our customers recognize the importance of properly segregate waste, and how to dispose each waste stream in it correspondent bin. • We recycle wastepaper and avoid using paper whenever possible. • We have joined initiatives that reiterate our commitment to sustainability: -Global Compact Spanish Network 25 -Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Involvement with the territory In 2019 we carried out different actions and supported some local initiatives that reinforce our commitment to the territory where we operate, but also our commitment to sustainability. Sustainability Day In our facilities, we celebrate Sustainability Day with our employees and their families. For one day, on December 15, we held workshops and activities with the purpose of promoting actions that in our daily life can contribute to the protection of the environment and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. During this day, we deliver envelopes with seeds, along with a bottle of rPET, and instructions to make a pot with it and how to plant it. Sustainable product kit With the aim of raising awareness on all the people that work with us on the importance of sustainability, and reminding them of the impact of our daily actions, we have distributed a kit of sustainable products, which includes a glass bottle to avoid the use of plastic bottles. 26 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Box for social purposes With the aim of helping the most vulnerable persons, Ubesol promotes the possibility of marking the solidarity box when disclosing the income statement. This box is called “Actividades de Interés Social” (Activities of Social Interest) and through it, 0.7 % of the full amount of corporation tax is used to finance social projects. 2.2 OUR SUPPLIERS, KEY ELEMENT OF OUR SUCCESS OUR SUPPLIERS ARE A FUNDAMENTAL PART OF THE SUCCESS OF OUR COMPANY (102-9) We want to develop long-lasting relationships with our suppliers and promote beneficial results for all. We work together to ensure maximum efficiency from the beginning of our value chain. Commitment to local suppliers WE ARE AWARE OF THE IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS THE TERRITORY WHERE WE OPERATE Our commitment to the territory is evident in the number of local suppliers that are part of our supply chain. 27 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019 we had a total of 183 raw materials and products suppliers The purchase volume amounted to 67 % 80.4 million euros Spain purchases 77 suppliers in Catalonia 47.3 % of total resources allocated go to them (over 38 million euros in the last year) The award volume to suppliers from 42 %local countries outside the European Union is of purchases 0.6 % of the total value of our purchases Excellence in our supply chain INNOVATION, JOINT WORK AND SPECIALIZATION ARE KEY TO ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We are committed to quality and excellence at all levels, a requirement that we transmit to our suppliers. Working with them, we can guarantee the safety and quality of products, services and the lowest possible price to our customers. At Laboratorios Maverick we want to progress along with our suppliers, for this reason, we provide two-way and permanent communication channels. As part of our commitment to quality, annually and to the extent possible, we monitor and assess the performance of our suppliers, taking into account their certifications, audits results, the number of non-conformities or incidents, compliance with delivery times and purchase volumes. Attendance to the most important trade fairs in the sector and the high volume of purchases allow raw 28 material suppliers to immediately present us with the latest developments in the sector. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We want to develop innovation projects with our suppliers and thus be able to stay up to date in the development of new products, using cutting-edge technology and with the best manufacturing equipment. Sustainable supply chain WE ARE MAKING PROGRESS IN PROMOTING AND CONSOLIDATING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS We want to guarantee an increase in the consumption of raw materials and materials from renewable sources. To do so, we have designed an implementation plan for the consumption of palm oil of sustainable origin, as well as increasing the consumption of cardboard certified by the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council cardboard FSC or PEFC) among others In 2019, we have incorporated the assessment process of our suppliers through EcoVadis, a platform that evalues the performance of sustainability in supply chains. At the beginning of this process, 161 suppliers from Grupo Ubesol were identified and pre-selected to participate in this assessment. At the end of the process, 60 % of the Group’s suppliers were assessed, including the main ones in terms of invoicing. Laboratorios Maverick has been recognized as silver metal supplier. 29 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 3 Our professional team: The engine that moves us Our staff are the engine that makes us grow and be more competitive: thanks to their commitment and specialization we are progressing. 3.1 Committed to our people 31 3.2 Equal opportunities 35 3.3 Safe and healthy people and spaces 38 30 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 3.1 COMMITTED TO OUR PEOPLE WE HAVE COMMITTED PEOPLE WHO ADAPT TO CHANGES AND SEEK EXCELLENCE 102-7, 102-8, 102-41) We are committed to our people. We know that they are the most valuable capital we have, so all our policies are focused on achieving their well-being in the workplace. We have almost 448 pepople who work with the same objective: to offer the best product at the best price, always thinking on the customer. Total number of employees by gender Workforce staff 2018 2019 Own personnel 462 448 239 231 Men 51,7 % 51,6 % 223 217 Women 48,3 % 48,4 % 31 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 The well-being of each of the 448 people who are part of our team is a priority for us. For this reason, among others, we have a comprehensive system for managing all the key processes in people management: “Unifica” (Unify). In order to define a system that ensures equity, objectivity and continuous improvement, all our employees have participated in the development of the following actions: Job description. Jobs assessment based on the following parameters: professional background, complexity, responsibility, professional relationships, exercise of command, environmental conditions and effort. The construction of a structure and progressive remuneration policy, according to the positions assessment, in internal balance and in line with the labour and sector market. A management model based on values and competencies, built on the basis of corporate strategy, allowing values and good practices to be aligned with business results. Stable and quality employment We recognize the tranquillity offered by having a stable job, for this reason we are committed to job stability and encourage permanent hiring. 95.8% of our employees have a permanent contract and 99.8 % are full-time employees. In 32 2019, only 19 people had a temporary contract, and one part-time. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We want people to feel inspired to give their best every day. Professional growth and development WE INVEST IN TRAINING IN ORDER TO DEVELOP THE NECESSARY SKILLS TO BE LEADERS We believe in continuous learning. We recognize the importance of training our team. For this reason, during the last year we invested over 42,270 euros in 2,512 training hours. We want to be a workplace where the personal and professional development of people is fostered, to ensure their prosperity and well-being. We have an assessment plan focused on improving the skills of all the people who are part of our team. In the last two years we have put in place the performance assessment system, which assesses the fulfilment of the objectives and competencies assigned to each of the members of our team. This system allows us to assess professional performance, identify areas of professional development and promotion, promoting continuous improvement and reward each worker based on their contribution and on the company’s results, in line with our remuneration policy. 33 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Personal, family and work balance WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED DIFFERENT PRACTICES THAT ALLOW A BETTER WORK-LIFE BALANCE As a result of continuous communication with employees, we have chosen to implement flexible working hours measures. These measures have been carried out successfully thanks to everyone’s commitment to guarantee minimum services within our normal hours. “Concilia” (Balance) The “Concilia” (Balance) Project is a measure of time flexibility designed to facilitate the reconciliation of work and personal life of people who work a fixed split shift. This measure has allowed working hours to be flexible at a maximum of one hour per day at the beginning of the day, during mealtime or at the end of the day. During the summer of 2017, another conciliation measure was implemented for staff with a fixed split shift, which consisted of carrying out an intensive day during the summer period on Friday afternoon. This measure yielded very good results, and from March 2018 it became effective for the entire year. Since 2016 we have a flexible schedule for people who do not work on shifts. This schedule allows you to enter between 8:00 and 9:00 and leave between 17:00 and 18:00. To date, about 150 people enjoy this measure. For their part, the production and warehouse operations areas work in shifts according to the production plan. The “Concilia” (Balance) Plan has benefited 100% of our staff. 34 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Other social benefits People who work with us have different social benefits that include: Physiotherapy Childcare check Flexible Vending food remuneration card Discounts on Baby care Training shops batch 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES WE CONSIDER EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AS A BASIC AND STRATEGIC PRINCIPLE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR ORGANISATION Non-discrimination and equal treatment (103-1,103-2, 406-1) The existence and effective application of policies that avoid discrimination are a basic factor in companies committed to their people. We have established policies that integrate equal treatment and opportunities between women and men, without discriminating directly or indirectly for any reason, which are managed by the Equality Committee. 35 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We are committed to promoting measures to achieve equality in our organization. The ethics Code of Grupo Ubesol, which applies to Laboratorios Maverick, in its article 10 establishes the following: 1. Grupo Ubesol is committed to promoting equal opportunities and non-discrimination of employees based on their race, nationality, social origin, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, ideology, religion, illness or disability, as well as by the use of any of the official languages within Spain. 2. To this end, Grupo Ubesol’s Equality Plan is in place since 2011, and its main objective is to guarantee due respect of the principle of equal treatment and opportunities between men and women, by eliminating any type of discrimination in the work field, as well as promoting gender equality. 3. The professional career values those who, overcoming obstacles, contributing to the best of their knowledge and experience, being leaders and sharing their value with the rest of the team, achieve consistent objectives and help achieving general goals. Laboratorios Maverick, through the Ethical Channel, manages risks and impacts related to non-discrimination at work. As a sign of our commitment to equality, we have professionals on our staff from almost 15 different nationalities, in addition to having people in different age ranges. We highlight that almost half of the staff in our workforce are women (48.4 %). We carry out selection and promotion processes in which candidates are valued for their professional profile, and in which gender is not a discrimination factor. 36 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We respect and support the rights of collaborators, guaranteeing the rights of association, affiliation and representation in all its manifestations, as an indispensable part of business organization, without reprisals arising from its exercise. We support the elimination of all forms of forced or coerced labour, and we strongly support the eradication of child labour. Some of the actions carried out during 2019 regarding non-discrimination at work are highlighted below: • Publication and update of the Equality Plan. • On boarding training of the Ethics Code. • Presentation of the Ethics Code to the entire staff. • Unification of the Protocol against moral and sexual harassment. • Manifesto for equality on International Women’s Day (March 8). Remuneration policy We have wages that are above the average market value. Our wages are above what is indicated in the different collective agreements that apply to our employees. Our salary policy incorporates a variable component with the objective of rewarding effort and achieving results regardless of gender, race, nationality, among others. The remuneration is set according to the job position, levels of autonomy and responsibility assumed, training and experience demonstrated, and the level of contribution to the established objectives. These concepts are scaled in a contribution table, which allows us to reward our best performing workers through an objective, measurable, equitable and scalable system. (406-1) Regarding the complaints received on issues of equality and discrimination, during 2019, two complaints were received from workers through our Ethical Channel where they expressed their disagreement regarding their salary conditions. In both cases, they were personally explained how our remuneration policy works and why their annual fixed salary range was correctly framed in the salary range corresponding to their position. All this, in accordance with the levels of the reference agreement and improving these levels for 37 their professional group. Both incidents were satisfactorily resolved. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our purpose is to reduce the total number of accidents at work, as well as to improve the work environment. 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING THE SAFETY AND HEALTH OF ALL PEOPLE (103-1, 103-2, 403-1, 403-2,403-9) We proactively develop health and safety actions. We work with all means at our disposal to achieve this goal. We act in the fields of prevention, training and health promotion, continuously improving our systems for the prevention of occupational risks and integrating them into the overall management of the company. Health and prevention PREVENTION IS INTEGRATED AT ALL LEVELS OF THE COMPANY, WE MAKE THE WORKPLACE A HEALTHY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT We promote the health and well-being of employees, investing in programs and activities within the company. Occupational health and safety are essential for our organisation, and the application of legislation on the prevention of occupational risks is mandatory for all employees and collaborators. (103-3) We have established processes associated with the assessment and management of risks, such as investigation, incidents and accidents at work, preventive planning, the performance of risk work, the use of machinery. We carry out monthly and annual audits. 38 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In addition, we have an assessment system that allows monitoring the indicators related to this topic. Being classified under the Seveso Directive, we have a safe management system. For the proper management of the subject, we have obtained the ISO 45001 certification of Occupational Health and Safety Management System. (4034) We have a Health and Safety Committee made up of employee representatives (delegates), the insurance company and own and external prevention service, as well as representatives of the company. We also have an employee portal and a suggestion box that can be used to make inquiries about health and safety at work. We carry out an annual risk assessment of all jobs. According to its results, personal protective equipment (PPE) is delivered, so that we can guarantee the development of the activity in safe conditions. This assessment considers the technical instructions generated by other departments, the introduction of new work equipment or new technologies, the modification or conditioning of workplaces, or the modification of production processes. We also have an External Prevention Service (SPA), which facilitates prevention management. Specifically, during the past year we have carried out different actions that improve the health and safety of our employees: • We acquired safer equipment, as well as the purchase of auxiliary equipment to avoid efforts or forced positions. • We installed air conditioning equipment that improves temperature conditions. • We reinforced and improved the information display in our communication channels. • We carried out four campaigns to promote healthy habits. • In collaboration with the Spanish Association Against Cancer, we carried out training sessions and a tobacco prevention campaign. • We continue to offer physiotherapist sessions for our employees on company premises. • We increased the number of trainings. • We carry out regular and constant audits of occupational risk prevention (PRL). 39 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 “Cuídate” (Take care of yourself) With the aim of instilling the importance of incorporating healthy lifestyle and personal care habits into our daily routine, we carried out four awareness campaigns in our facilities aimed at our employees. Throughout the year, and quarterly, we disseminate information to avoid overexertion when handling loads. We carried out a road safety campaign, and another to remember the importance of healthy eating and playing sports. We have implemented the fruit day in which different options of fruit for consumption are made available to employees. (403-9) It is noteworthy that during 2019 there were no workplace accident injuries with major consequences and there were no deaths resulting from a workplace accident injury. In addition, we achieved a 9.1 % reduction in the number of injuries due to workplace accident compared to 2018. Work accident injuries 2018 2019 Number of deaths resulting from an accident injury 0 0 Number of occupational accident injuries with major consequences (not including deaths) 0 0 Number of recordable work-related injuries 76 69 Injury rate with serious consequences at work (not including deaths) 0 0 Recordable workplace injury rate* 134 124 (number of recordable work-related injuries /number of hours worked) * 1,000,000 Number of hours worked 569,074 556,664 40 * The injury rate includes small-scale accidents. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In order to prevent and strengthen our system, every time an accident occurs, an investigation is carried out through independent interviews with the responsible, colleagues and those affected, security cameras are reviewed to assess the incident, and the machinery involved is checked. This process is carried out with the participation of workers’ representatives During 2019, various measures were taken to eliminate, and minimize the risk of accidents, and thus, prevent the occurrence of new incidents. The main types of injuries recorded during the year were: overexertion, blows, cuts and burns. Type of accidents with leave 2019 Overexertion 36 % Burns 18 % Entrapments 15 % Hits 12 % Chemical products 9% Projections 3% Forced postures 3% Commute 3% Total 100 % In our facilities we have a self-protection plan updated in 2018. We have also carried out studies and measurements of hygiene, lighting and temperature, as well as, chemical agents and noise. In addition to this, we carried out ergonomic studies and measurements at workplaces and we carry out medical examinations on the workforce, as well as on new hires and after long-term sick leave. To avoid future burns, progress was made with the preparation of the technical instruction to clean Rack and we conducted training talks on the safe use of PPE. We reinforced the control of existing hoses and periodic reviews to verify their correct condition. A replacement of hoses was also conducted. Regarding entrapments, and to avoid future injuries, we made progress adapting machinery and replacing machines with new models that have automatic stop systems, accompanied by training on the safe use of forklifts and the safe use of pallet trucks and stackers. 41 Finally, to avoid accidents caused by overexertion, training was provided on the load manual, and the provision of auxiliary load means to avoid forced positions, among others. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Training in occupational risk prevention (403-3, 403-5, 403-6) So that people know all the techniques, processes and work procedures and thus guarantee their physical integrity, we provide the necessary resources and training, so that all people can carry out their functions in a safe and healthy environment. We carry out general and specific training processes on occupational risks, dangerous activities or dangerous situations, mandatory from the moment of joining our company. We have an annual training plan on occupational risk prevention, highlighting the following: • Initial safety and health training by job (reception training) • Training in confined spaces • Training in the use of the automated external defibrillator DEA • First aid • Working at heights • Maintenance and use of fire extinguishers • Transport of dangerous goods It is noteworthy that, according to the results of the organizational health survey, 80 % of workers are very satisfied with the reception program received at the time of their incorporation. For the coordination of business activities, we have the CAE platform, which allows us to manage, among other things, the documentation requirements. 100 % of the employees of Laboratorios Maverick are trained in Prevention of Occupational Hazards. 42 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 People and facility safety WE STRIVE TO MAINTAIN THE PHYSICAL SECURITY OF FACILITIES AND PEOPLE, AS WELL AS SECURITY IN THE DIGITAL WORLD We have a security coordinator since 2018. In 2019, we have incorporated a cybersecurity policy, so that we are prepared to face all the threats derived from the digital world, protecting people, information and our infrastructure. We also have an updated access control policy. We care about the integrity of the people who work with us. Thus, we have protocols to ensure employees’ safety from the time they leave their homes until they return. For example, we can provide information to minimize alerts of environmental phenomena that may affect them on the way. 43 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 4 We improve our customer experience We are customer oriented, that is why we offer top quality, innovative and sustainable products that meet the needs and expectations of our consumers. 4.1 Responsible innovation and maximum quality in the development of our products 46 4.2 Consolidated quality management 49 44 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 OUR CUSTOMER IS THE CENTRE OF OUR ACTIONS, AND THE FOCUS OF ALL THE EFFORTS WE MAKE (102-43) We seek excellence in all our references, we manufacture quality products that improve the consumption experience of our customers. We want to guarantee the best product and always achieve clients’ total satisfaction. Our company guarantees that all the products we supply comply with the standards and requirements established in the applicable local and international legislation. We also go a step further and position the most sustainable and healthy products for the whole family, with the highest quality, at a lower price and with all security guarantees. Continual improvement in this area involves intensive monitoring of expert scientific and legal forums. At Laboratorios Maverick we do not conduct animal testing, as required by cosmetic regulations. Our products are “cruelty free”. In addition, we have incorporated vegan certified products, and although we do not mention it on our products’ label, we have 35 references certified by The Vegan Society, one of the most relevant certifications in the world for vegan products. All of our hand soaps have this certification. We try to use renewable materials that do not contribute to deforestation or the loss of biodiversity, and we are working on the development of a broad portfolio of products that meet the COSMOS international standard, which allows us to label our products as natural.ç In short, we are working to develop products that are at the forefront. Today we have products with a high percentage of ingredients of natural origin, and we continue with the development of products that comply with the regulations and requirements of the most demanding natural certifications. 45 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Developing innovative products and processes not only allows us to have a differentiating element compared to the competitors, but also allows us to offer products that exceed the expectations of our customers. 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS INNOVATION AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT ARE A STRATEGIC PART OF OUR COMPANY (103-1) Research, scientific knowledge and continuous improvement is part of our DNA. The commitment to innovation is established from our business strategy, mission and vision, and is present at all stages of our products development. We have one of the largest R+D+i departments in the national sector, with specialists working with the most cutting-edge technology and raw materials on the market. Through research, development and innovation we can guarantee the functionality, sustainability and security of our references. We closed 2019 with 256 references on the shelves. We work daily to develop and improve current products and materials, anticipating legal requirements and implementing innovative methodologies to achieve our goals. Thus, during this year we have developed 296 formulas and in between new products and redevelopments we launched 118 references on the shelves. WE FOCUS ON RESEARCH AND SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AS A DIFFERENTIAL MARKET VALUE 46 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Scientific-technical innovation evolves in synergy with advances in cosmetics vigilance, led by the Area of Safety and Regulation. This Area gives the company a decisive competitive advantage over competitors and positions our company’s product categories at the forefront of ingredient policy. We have specialists from leading industries in the international cosmetics and perfumery sector. At Laboratorios Maverick we develop new product concepts from a specialized and disruptive approach, tailored to customer trends and current and future regulations, anticipating the needs of tomorrow’s customer. Through co-innovation we have experts in trends who, through the study and analysis of trends in the changing and demanding market, detect future customer habits knowing today what the customer will want tomorrow. This framework allows us to predict future legislative changes for the replacement or removal of formulation ingredients. This ability to anticipate sector guides over the development process of new concepts and product improvements before regulations come into force, aim minimizing adverse effects on the consumer. WE HAVE A HUMAN TEAM MADE UP OF EXPERTS IN EACH OF THE CATEGORIES WE WORK WITH. With the aim of developing innovative products, since 2014, we are committed to providing development departments with personal resources and technical teams. We went from having 10 people to having a team that today has over 60 specialists. We are committed to maintain this team and investing in new technologies that allow us to optimize manufacturing processes to increase productivity, efficiency and innovation. In our facilities, we have the upmost advanced technology; equipment and machinery that allow us to be at the forefront of research, development and manufacturing. Through the development and innovation area, we have achieved rapid prototyping, and we also have specialized facilities for validating product functionality. 2018 2019 Investment in R&D * 2,180 2,289 47 * Figures in thousands of euros. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Innovation in our processes Concept Pre-development Assessment Development Product New idea New project Viability Development in itself From idea to shelf presentation Innovative Development Digital Productivity Infrastructures Demand, concepts experts transformation and facilities rigor and follow-up With the aim of being an efficient productive company adapted to new technologies, we have transformed, digitized and optimized our production processes with tools such as the SAP software. We improve productivity through the optimization of all production processes, ensuring the total quality of our products through the Lean manufacturing system. (103-2) Our objectives related to the management of innovation and technological development refer to what is defined by the company’s management, which establishes “natural transformation” and “digital transformation” as the main milestones to be addressed in the coming years. Yearly, we have more than 200 new product concepts developed tailored to consumer trends and legal requirements. In this sense, efforts have been focused on the development of increasingly sustainable products, from the point of view of formulation and packaging development: • Applying ISO 16128-1:2016 and ISO 16128-2:2017 standards, we developed a line of products with a high percentage of natural ingredients. . Since December 2017 we have a bath gel on the market that contains 98 % ingredients of natural origin. Similarly, since November 2018 we have a hair line of three products that have 97 % ingredients of natural origin, and whose presence on the shelves of the leading supermarket in Spain has been gradually increasing since 2019. • We have incorporated 0 % aluminum alternatives in the market for our deodorants. 48 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 • We continue working on the development of products that meet the most demanding natural certification regulations. . We are working on the development of a broad portfolio of products that meet the COSMOS international standard, which allows us to label our products as natural. • We are incorporating recycled material in our packaging. • We continue to participate in circular economy projects. 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT WE ENSURE THE TOTAL QUALITY OF ALL OUR PRODUCTS, ENSURING THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF EACH OF THEM Customer health and safety (102-15, 103-2, 103-3, 416-1,416-2) One of our pillars is the continuous improvement throughout all our processes, and this is why our systems have evolved with the introduction of new methods, projects, indicators and operational strategies. The safety of our products is a factor of great social and economic impact. To minimize this potential impact, we have an integrated management system based on the requirements of the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 22716 standards for quality and good manufacturing practices, as well as the internal procedure for the management of safety accidents in the product. The objectives that we pursue, related to the management of the health and safety of customers, refer to always guarantee the maximum satisfaction of our customers when using our products, both in quality and safety, and complying with the requirements defined in the current legislation. We also take a step further by raising the level of demand on our products to always guarantee their safety. 49 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 One of our main objectives is that there are no serious safety problems with any of our products on the market. WE OFFER TOP QUALITY PRODUCTS AT THE LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICE At Laboratorios Maverick we guarantee the application of all national and international legislative and regulatory requirements, we comply with the most demanding hygiene standards and with the strictest quality controls. To guarantee the quality of our products we have: • Advanced measurement equipment. • A team of 50 people, who guarantee the quality of our products. • One of the largest national R+D+i departments, with 60 specialists. • Access to innovative raw materials for new developments. Thanks to this, nowadays we have the ability to develop more than 300 formulas per year. WE CONTINUE TO IMPROVE THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF OUR CUSTOMERS We have different policies that facilitate compliance with existing regulations on the following subjects: • Ingredients policy • Fragrance policy • Product quality assurance and safety protocols, at all stages of the product manufacturing process • Customer service and cosmetovigilance procedure 50 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 On the other hand, we increased the requirement for safety tests both in vivo and in vitro before placing our products on the market. We have a cosmetovigilance procedure with the purpose of complying with Regulation 1223/2009 on cosmetic products, giving the public access to information on existing data on unwanted effects, serious or not, derived from the use of the cosmetic product. In addition, we have implemented and validated an action protocol in the event of a product safety alert, which we define as a Product Safety Accident Management Method. Similarly, we have undergone various audits. Among others, we have been audited by our main client, and by the ISO 9001 and ISO 22716 certification entities in good manufacturing practices for cosmetic products. Likewise, in 2019 we conducted the SMETA audit that allows us to review the information on ethical and responsible practices in our company. It is worth noting that, in 2019 there were no cases of non-compliance with regulations that led to fines or sanctions, or warnings. Also, there were no cases of non-compliance with voluntary codes reported, and there have been no notable events that affect the health and safety of products’ users. There were also no cases of non-compliance related to the impacts on health and safety of all the categories of products and services. We listen to our customers WE RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF LISTENING AND COMMUNICATING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS We are committed to always offer the best customer solution and experience. Our customers are a direct part of our development processes: in 2019 we made up to 439 tests that allowed us to listen to 5,730 consumers. The Regulatory & Safety Department, with the support of the Customer Service Department and the medical manager, collect information from our customers regarding product safety. The cosmetovigilance Team assesses the need to make improvements in our products. 51 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We have enabled a communication channel through the free customer service line, enabled by our main client. This channel allows us to receive complaints, congratulations or inquiries about our products. Specifically, during 2019, we had a 75 % increase in the congratulations received from our customers. Regarding information requests, 26% of people that contacted us was to ask about the ingredients of our products. In line with the trend of the vegan collective, 21% of the requests received in 2019, refer to whether our ingredients are of animal origin. Regarding complaints, during 2019 we received 0.0005% of complaints against manufactured units. It is highlighted that we always follow up on all the complaints received to identify the motive and to be able to provide a timely response to 100% of them. Thus, 41% of the complaints received in the year referred to the proper use of the product, a situation that is justified given the large number of new launches made during the year. Quality and avant-garde facilities To facilitate and ensure the highest quality in all our products, we have facilities that not only facilitate regulatory compliance, but also have the most advanced technology. Our production is 100% national, and it is centralized in two facilities equipped with the uppermost technology. We have the best facilities, which allows us to innovate and improve productivity through the optimization of all production processes, ensuring total quality in all our products. 52 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 5 Committed to the Environment Our goal is to be a sustainable company in the short, medium and long term, manufacturing increasingly sustainable products and performing as a company that respects the environment and its surroundings. 5.1 We work to minimize the environmental impact 55 5.2 Energy efficiency 56 53 5.3 Control of resources consumption 58 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 THE PRESERVATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES, THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE HEALTH OF NEIGHBOURING POPULATIONS IS ONE OF OUR BASIC PRINCIPLES OF ACTION The respect for the environment is an inescapable requirement that materializes through our Environmental Policy and the various actions we carry out throughout our value chain. Environmental policy We have an environmental policy that sets out the company’s objectives to preserve natural resources, the environment and the health of the surrounding population, among others, we have the following as a priority: • Zero tolerance for negligent behavior in environmental matters. • The implementation of an environmental management system in order to consolidate the compliance of practices and standards guided by excellence criteria. People who are part of our company must know and accept this Policy and act at all times in accordance to its criteria of respect, balance of ecosystems and sustainability. (102-11, 102-15) The environmental impacts are related to the responsible use of resources and consumer awareness for the responsible products recycling. Environmental management under ISO 14001, assessment of the distribution chain, responsible sourcing policies, as well as, campaigns to support consumer in suitable products recycling, are part of our strategy. 54 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Environmental management Throughout our value chain, we have a commitment to: Reduce environmental impacts, such as emissions, discharges and waste. Optimize the use of natural and energy resources.. Guarantee compliance with current regulations and legislation on environmental matters. Integrate environmental criteria in the development of new projects. (102-11) Thanks to the implementation of the ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management System, a key instrument of our Environmental Policy, it is possible to anticipate future impacts. At Laboratorios Maverick we have a set of procedures where the most relevant environmental aspects are detected and assessed, allowing us to develop the necessary actions to prevent and / or mitigate them. For example, we have worked with Ecoembes to develop annual industrial strategic plans and thus improve the recyclability of the products we sell. We have also removed microplastics in our product formulas, such as scrub gels. We are using scrub particles of natural origin. 55 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Life cycle analysis Aware of the importance of knowing the impact of our products, we have carried out a life cycle analysis (LCA) for 18 references in the shower gels category. For this purpose, we studied different packaging sizes pot and formulations in four product lines. The analysis was carried out following the Product Category Rules (RCP) 2015: 07 Version 1: “Cosmetics (Soap, Perfume and toilet preparations)” and the impact categories studied were: global warming potential, acidification, eutrophication, photochemical oxidation, fossil resource depletion, non-hazardous waste, hazardous waste and radioactive waste. Considering the RCP, the functional unit studied for all products has been the amount of shower gel applied in a daily shower (18.67 g). It is highlighted that the results for the global warming potential (carbon footprint) are equivalent, on average, to the same footprint that involves a journey of about 100 to 200 meters by car. Likewise, we found differences in the impacts for each of the categories. In general, the processes that have the greatest impact for all products are found in the raw materials extraction (including their packaging), in the use of the product and waste management (including packaging). However, we have concluded that our own processes, conducted in our plants to manufacture the product, have little significance within the product life cycle (less than 5%). On the other hand, we have analyzed the influence of packaging in four different sizes: 250 ml, 500 ml, 750 ml and 1,000 ml. As a result, we found that the packaging that has the least impact is the 250 ml one due to its smaller size. However, when transferring the results per functional unit, it is more convenient at the environmental level to use the larger packaging (1,000 ml) given that it contains the largest amount of final product. 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY WE HAVE ESTABLISHED GOOD PRACTICES IN ENERGY SAVING (302-1) We recognize that proper energy management is important at all company levels. In this context, we are developing energy audits to detect improvement options and we have started the implementation of the ISO 50001: 2018 Energy Management System, which will be implemented by the end of 2020. 56 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We want to reduce our carbon footprint. 100 % of the electricity we use comes from renewable energy sources free of CO2 emissions. With the actions carried out we have identified several aspects to improve, such as: unnecessary consumption and avoidable consumption peaks. For example, we have reduced energy consumption during the weekends, which has been possible thanks to a precise monitoring and follow-up of main consumption sources, namely, transformers, compressors, air conditioning units, offices and a wastewater treatment plant. To reduce the impact associated with electricity consumption, we have not only renovated our manufacturing facilities and equipment to improve their energy efficiency, but we have also hired, both at Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona and Laboratorios Maverick Madrid, a green energy trading company, whose production of electrical energy comes from renewable sources and, therefore, zero greenhouse gas emissions for electrical energy use. These actions are in line with the purpose of achieving the zero spill/waste target. Energy consumption within the organisation (KWH) 2018 2019 Electricity consumption, KWh 9,826,410 11,275,336 Natural gas consumption, m³ 591,736 658,201 Compressed air consumption, KWh 1,075,212 1,270,151 Energy from renewable sources 9,826,410 11,275,336 57 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION WE SEEK EFFICIENT CONTROL AND CORRECT OPTIMIZATION OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION 5.3.1 WATER WE TAKE CARE OF SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT (303-1) We are improving the quality of the water incorporated into our processes. We want to guarantee the quality of the discharged water through an exhaustive control of the treated wastewater, considering the environmental discharge limits allowances. (307-1) Compliance with current environmental regulations is a key pillar of our Environmental Policy. Given the nature of the products we manufacture, a sustainable water management is of great importance, especially regarding the quality of the water discharged, for which exhaustive controls are carried out to ensure compliance with current legislation. In 2019, the periodic control of Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona was successfully compliant with the Integrated Environmental Authorization (AAI) requirements. It is noted that Laboratorios Maverick Madrid, was successfully compliant with Evaluation Enviromental Impact too. We highlight that total water consumption has decreased by 4.28 % between 2018 and 2019. Furthermore, due to the installation of the new osmosis plants, we are guaranteeing an improvement in the quality of the water used in our products manufacture and further optimization of the required consumption for production. Water consumption (m³) 2018 2019 Total water consumption in all areas 138,215 132,296 COMMITTED TO THE QUALITY OF THE WATER THAT IS DISCHARGED (303-4) Due to improvements in ultrafiltration and water purification systems, the number of cisterns for external wastewater treatment has been reduced. In addition, we carry out periodic analytical controls, disinfections and legionella analysis in our plants. We optimized the cleaning processes to reduce the water consumed 58 and, therefore, its discharge. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We incorporate rPET in our bottles. 5.3.2 CORRECT MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS WE WANT TO INCREASE THE USE OF RECYCLED MATERIALS AND THE USE OF MORE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS (301-1) We work daily in the investigation of new eco-responsible materials. We are making an effort to increase the use of recycled materials, an effort that is evident in the consumption increase of recycled PET. We have increased its use by 29.91 % compared to 2018 consumption. We use recycled plastic in one of the best-selling product categories in the Spanish market: in our hand soap bottles we have managed to incorporate 25 % rPET. Likewise, due to the capacity of our facilities and the technology with work with, we are manufacturing and distributing rPET bottles for food products. Regarding the use of recycled cardboard, we have managed to increase its use by 8.38 % compared to what was used in 2018. 92% of the cardboard we use is recycled cardboard. In order to assess and carry out actions that facilitate the cardboard recycling process, since July 2019, we are working with suppliers that consolidate our commitment to circular economy. 59 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 YCLING REC CIRCULAR MANUFAC ECONOMY TURING CO N S UM P TI ON Material consumption by origin Materials of non-renewable origin (Tn) 2018 2019 Wood 0.92 0.91 Plastic (PP, PE) 1,631 1,791 Metals Aluminium, tinplate and others 686.06 814.71 Cardboard 138.76 118.49 PET 3,626.75 3,647.09 Materials of renewable origin (Tn) 2018 2019 100 % recycled cardboard 1,292.44 1,400.8 rPET (recycled) material with 25 % rPET 351.36 456.454 To improve the impact of our products and considering that some of the materials consumed are derived from palm oil, we joined the international organization RSPO. 60 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Use of more sustainable products (bioplastics) In 2019, in association with AIMPLAS, the Technological Institute of Plastics, we have carried out the Beonnat Project. The purpose of this initiative is to investigate the extraction of PLA (polylactic acid) from shrubs with the aim of manufacturing bottle preforms. This PLA is a plastic that, under certain temperature conditions, can be biodegradable. 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT (306-2) In 2019, we have got the verification zero waste to landfill. The disposal rate by deposit to landfill is 0.2% for Ulldecona and 0.4% for San Fernando. In order to reduce waste generation, the processes where this waste is generated have been reviewed and new ways of reuse and recycling have been found at Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona and Laboratorios Maverick Madrid. Non-hazardous waste (Tn) 2018 2019 No special waste 109.17 94.66 Packaging 163.14 118.72 Cardboard 453.33 484.50 Water rejects WWTP processes 958.10 748.26 Washing waters for biological treatment 1,566.64 1,360.16 Hazardous waste (Tn) 2018 2019 Contaminated empty containers (plastics and metal) 107.23 103.93 Aerosol sprays 107.11 24.47 Washing waters, from the biological treatment, are non-hazardous waste most generated at Laboratorios Maverick Madrid, which we have been reduced by 13.2%. In Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona, wastewater from the WWTP processes is non-hazardous waste generated most generated, which has been minimized by 21.8%. 61 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 At Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona, where 62% of waste is generated, the generation of similar to uban waste has been significantly reduced. Regarding plastic packaging waste (generated in both plants), a reduction of 27.2 % was achieved. In the case of hazardous waste, the reduction has occurred in nearly all the waste generated streams, with the most often generated being the containers of contaminated empty containers and aerosols with a reduction of 77.16 % and 3.07 % respectively. On the other hand, we are developing different actions to increase consumer awareness, advising them on the sustainable use of cosmetics and preparing communication campaigns to promote good management of packaging at the end of its useful life. 62 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 6 About the report 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS To determine which issues are relevant to Laboratorios Maverick (internal level) and its stakeholders (external level), during 2019 a process with several phases was carried out, as established by the GRI Standards. The materiality analysis process has been carried out from the internal perspective (including the people who have decision-making power within the company) and from the external perspective, taking into account the opinion of Laboratorios Maverick’s stakeholders. 6.1.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS (102-43) For Laboratorios Maverick, stakeholders are all those groups with which the company connects, and on which it has an impact through its daily activity. Their integration in the daily management of the organisation is a key element to carry out socially responsible management. For this reason, Laboratorios Maverick carries out all possible measures to build solid and trusting relationships with them, as to create added value that adapts to their needs and concerns. This is achieved through a fluid and participatory dialogue, in a way that the creation of value for stakeholders is always a premise. 63 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-40,102-42) The selection of the stakeholders has been based on the bidirectional influence between them and the company in economic, social and environmental aspects. The dependence of the main client, customers, owners, responsibility towards employees, administration and society, the influence of the scientific community, industry associations and suppliers of raw materials, materials and services have determined this selection. Laboratorios Maverick maintains, a constant dialogue with all the groups listed below through different communication channels as shown below: Stakeholders Communication channels and frequency Customer service telephone number Final customer (regular) Suppliers of materials Registry of approved suppliers (regular) Employees Employee registry (regular) Registry of contracts (CAE -CTAIMA Suppliers of services platform) (regular) E-mail / phone. director’s assistant (regular) Owners Costumers E-mail, telephone, meetings (regular) Industry associations E-mail, meetings, statements (regular) Scientific community Publications, statements (regular) Registries and official communications of Government / Administration the City Council and / or regions, country (regular) Social media, e-mail, client communications 64 Society (regular) Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 6.1.2 IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ISSUES (102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-49) In the framework of the preparation of the 2019 sustainability report, Laboratorios Maverick has carried out a new materiality analysis that allowed us to identify the relevant issues for our stakeholders. This process followed 3 phases: • Identification: The first step has been the exploration of potentially relevant topics for the organisation and its stakeholders. The compilation of relevant topics was based on an internal analysis of the organisation and an external analysis based on a sector benchmarking study considering the main reference standards in sustainability. The list has been validated by the departments responsible. • Priorization: . In order to prioritize the most relevant issues according to the degree of importance from the perspective of the company and the stakeholders, a participatory process was carried out taking into account the materiality principle and the participation of stakeholders. Internal prioritization was carried out through a participatory session with managers and technicians from different areas, while external prioritization was carried out through direct consultation with stakeholders through an online questionnaire. For the statistical analysis of the external sphere, responses were weighted according to the importance that each of the stakeholders has in the company. This approach provides a more coherent overview that is in accordance to the company’s reality. • Validation: Through Management’s review and validation, it is guaranteed that the report offers a complete representation of the organisation’s sustainability context, considering both positive and negative impacts. During the validation process, we decided to incorporate “Energy”, “Effluents and waste” and “Nondiscrimination” in the material topics due to its relevance for both the organisation and stakeholders. Thus, the material issues resulting from the materiality analysis are the following: Economy Environment Social 18. Innovation and 3. Materials 10. Health and safety at work technological development 4. Energy 13. Non-discrimination 5. Water 16. Customer health and safety 7. Effluents and waste 8. Environmental compliance 65 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-47) As a result of the materiality analysis review, a materiality matrix has been obtained reflecting the degree of importance of each aspect considered during the assessment based on: • The importance regarding the economic, social and environmental effects for the organisation. • The importance in the valuations and decisions of the stakeholders. (103-1) Parallel to the materiality analysis, the coverage of each of the identified material issues has been determined, identifying the involvement (direct or indirect) of the organisation in these impacts. The results have been worked on the internal session with managers and technicians from different areas. Topic Implication No GRI Innovation and technological development Direct-Indirect GRI 301 Materials Direct GRI 302 Energy Direct GRI 303 Water and Effluents Direct GRI 306 Effluents and Waste Direct GRI 307 Environmental Compliance Direct GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety Direct GRI 406 Non-discrimination Direct GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety Direct-Indirect 66 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 6.1.3 MATERIALITY MATRIX (102-47) 4 Energy 10 Work health and Alta (≥ 4,14) 16 Customer health and 13 Non-discrimination safety safety 5 Water 18 Innovation and technological development * Medium (3.90-4.13) 7 Effluents and waste 8 Environmental 6 Emissions compliance 3 Materials 14 Local communities 1 Economic performance 17 Product Life Cycle 20 Traceability of raw Assessment (LCA) * materials * 19 Packaging* 15 Social assessment of suppliers 9 Environmental assessment Relevance for stakeholders of suppliers Low (≤ 3.89) 11 Training and education 12 Diversity and equal opportunities 2 Fight against corruption Low (≤ 3.64) Medium (3.65-4.09) High (≥ 4.10) Relevance for Laboratorios Maverick Environment Social Economy In bold the material topics. 67 * Topics not covered in GRI Standards. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 7 GRI content index (102-54,102-55) This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards according to the Core compliance option. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals have also been considered. The following table presents the index of general and specific basic contents of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) organisation according to GRI Standards for the option of Core compliance. 7.1 GENERAL CONTENTS GRI Standard Content Paragraph in memory / Direct response GRI 101 FOUNDATION GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Laboratorios Maverick, S.L. 102-2 Activities, brands, 1.1 LABORATORIOS MAVERICK, A LONG products, and services HISTORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 68 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-3 Location of headquarters Laboratorios Maverick, S.L. Calle París, 4, Polígono Industrial Valldepins II 43550 Ulldecona (Tarragona) Que es Sociedad dependiente de Grupo Subsidiary of Grupo Ubesol, S.L. Calle la Costera, 9 46869 Atzeneta d’Albaida (Valencia) 102-4 Ownership and legal form Grupo Ubesol (parent company) Ubesol Plantas Textil e Higiene Calle la Costera, 9 46869 Atzeneta d’Albaida Valencia, España Laboratorios Maverick (subsidiary company) Ulldecona Calle París, 4 Polígono industrial Valldepins II, 43550 Ulldecona Tarragona, España Madrid Calle De la sierra de Gata, 2 Polígono de San Fernando de Henares, 28830 Madrid, España 102-5 Ownership and legal form Laboratorios Maverick, SL is a family business, limited company 102-6 Markets served 1.1 LABORATORIOS MAVERICK, A LONG HISTORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2019 A YEAR TO MOVE FORWARD 102-8 Information on employees 3 OUR PROFESSIONAL TEAM: THE ENGINE and other employees THAT MOVES US 102-9 Supply chain 1.2.1 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 102-10 Significant changes to the There has been no significant change. organisation and its supply 69 chain Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-11 Precautionary Principle or In the framework of the environmental approach management system, the identification and assessment of environmental aspects is carried out. The objective of this identification and assessment is to know what the main impacts are and to be able to act to reduce their effects. A review of these environmental aspects is carried out periodically, including potential or emergency situations. 102-12 External initiatives 1.4 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT 102-13 Membership of 1.4 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT associations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior LETTER FROM THE CEO executives responsible for decision-making Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 1.2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS standards and norms of conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure 1.3 A CORPORATE CULTURE FOCUSED ON ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholder involvement 102-40 List of stakeholders 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS 102-41 Collective bargaining 100% of our workforce is covered by our agreements own collective agreement (staff as of 70 December 31). Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-42 Identification and selection 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS of stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS engagement 102-44 Key issues and voiced 6.1 THE MATERIALITY PROCESS concerns Reporting practices 102-45 Entities included in the Grupo Ubesol (including subsidiary company consolidated financial Laboratorios Maverick). statements 102-46 Definition of the reports’ The Report covers information related to contents and the the economic, social and environmental coverage of the topic areas of Laboratorios Maverick and contains transparent, reliable and balanced information on the organization’s social, economic and environmental performance, reflecting both positive and negative aspects for stakeholders can obtain a reasonable assessment of the organization’s performance. 102-47 List of material topics 6.1.2 IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ISSUES 102-48 Restatement of There has been no restatement of the information information. 102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no changes. This is the first sustainability report by Laboratorios Maverick. 102-50 Reporting period Laboratorios Maverick sustainability report 2019 refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019. 71 102-51 Last report date 2019 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact person for For any report related question, contact: questions about the report Mar Paris, Responsible of Quality Assurance and Environment (QAE): marparis@maverick.es Marta Queralt, Research and Development Division Coordinator: martaqueraltlopez@maverick.es 102-54 Declaration of preparation This report has been prepared in accordance of the report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. with GRI standards 102-55 GRI Table of Contents 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX 7.2 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 200 Economic topics NO GRI INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response 103-1 Explanation of the material 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND topic and its Boundary MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 103-2 The management approach 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND and its components MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 103-3 Evaluation of the 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND management approach MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 72 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 300: Environmental topics GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY management approach 302-1 Energy consumption 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY within the organisation 302-4 Reduction of energy 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY consumption GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION management approach 301-1 Materials used by weight 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION or volume 73 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.1 WATER topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.1 WATER and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.1 WATER management approach 303-4 Water discharge 5.3.1 WATER 303-5 Water consumption 5.3.1 WATER GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT management approach 306-2 Waste by type and 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT disposal method GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE topic and its Boundary ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 103-2 The management approach 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE and its components ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE 74 management approach ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 307-1 Non-compliance with 5.1 WE WORK TO MINIMIZE THE environmental laws and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT regulations GRI 400: Social topics GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES management approach 403-1 Occupational health and 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES assessment, and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES services 403-4 Employee participation, 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Employee training on 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES occupational health and safety 75 403-6 Promotion of employee health 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 403-8 Employees covered by 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES an occupational health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES 403-10 Work-related ill health 3.3 SAFE AND HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT and corrective actions taken GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT management approach 76 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 416-1 Assessment of the health 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT and safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 77 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 8 United Nations Global Compact table of contents Principles of the United Page / Direct Most relevant GRI Category Nations Global Compact response standard Human 1. Businesses should support 3.1 COMMITTED TO 406 Non-discrimination Rights and respect the protection of OUR PEOPLE 407 Freedom of Association internationally proclaimed and Collective Bargaining human rights 408 Child Labour 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour 410 Security Practices 413 Local Communities 414 Supplier Social Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 2. Businesses should make sure 3.1 COMMITTED TO 406 Non-discrimination that they are not complicit in OUR PEOPLE 407 Freedom of Association human rights abuses and Collective Bargaining 408 Child Labour 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour 410 Security Practices 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 78 criteria Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the 7 GRI CONTENT 402 Labour/Management freedom of association and the INDEX Relations effective recognition of the right 407 Freedom of Association to collective bargaining and Collective Bargaining 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 4. Businesses should uphold the 3.2 EQUAL 409 Forced or Compulsory elimination of all forms of forced OPPORTUNITIES Labour and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should uphold the 3.2 EQUAL 408 Child Labour effective abolition of child labour OPPORTUNITIES 6. Businesses should uphold the 3.1 COMMITTED TO 402 Labour/Management elimination of discrimination OUR PEOPLE Relations in respect of employment and 403: Occupational Health occupation 3.3 SAFE AND and Safety HEALTHY PEOPLE AND SPACES 404 Training and Education 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management Approach 406 Non-discrimination Environment 7. Businesses should support 5 COMMITTED TO 301 Materials a precautionary approach to THE ENVIRONMENT 302 Energy environmental challenges 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 79 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 8. Businesses should undertake 5 COMMITTED TO 301 Materials initiatives to promote greater THE ENVIRONMENT 302 Energy environmental responsibility 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 9. Businesses should encourage 5 COMMITTED TO 301 Materials the development and diffusion THE ENVIRONMENT 302 Energy of environmentally friendly technologies. 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Anti10. Businesses should work 1.3 A CORPORATE 205 Anti-corruption corruption against corruption in all its CULTURE FOCUSED 415 Public Policy forms, including extortion and ON ETHICS, bribery. INTEGRITY AND 102-16 Values, principles, GOOD CORPORATE standards, and norms of GOVERNANCE behaviour 80 Pag. Laboratorios Maverick Ulldecona Laboratorios Maverick Madrid C/ París, 4 C/ De la sierra de Gata, 2 Polígono industrial Valldepins II Polígono de San Fernando de Henares, 43550 Ulldecona Tarragona, Spain 28830 Madrid, Spain T. +34 977 721 796 T. +34 916 751 139
