Santen Report 2020 Year ended March 31, 2020 Happiness with Vision CORE PRINCIPLE Happiness with Vision Exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health* The Happiest Life for every individual, * Santen’s original interpretation of a passage from the Zhongyong (The Doctrine of the Mean) by Confucius through the Best Vision Experience Our Value Creation Sustainability 1 CORE PRINCIPLE 42 CSR Promotion System 2 130-Year History 43 Environment 6 Business Model and Value Creation 44 Building an Inclusive Society 46 Diversity and Inclusion Our Aspirations 8 CEO Message Corporate Governance 14 Vision 2020: Past and Present 48 Chairman’s Message 18 Our New Vision 51 A Conversation between the Chairman and 24 Feature – Long-Term Vision Santen 2030: an Outside Director Our Challenges and Mindset 54 Corporate Governance 60 Directors, Corporate Auditors Our Approach and Corporate Officers 28 Financial Strategy/CFO Message 30 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Data & Corporate Information 32 Research and Development 62 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 34 Business Development Results and Finances 36 Overview by Region 66 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data 68 Main Financial Information 73 Stock Information 74 Corporate Information 75 On the Publication of Santen Report 2020 Note Key words that are explained in detail in this report are shown in bold type along with a page number for reference. Particularly important points are underlined. See page 74 for more details of our editorial policy. 2 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 01 Our Value Creation 130-Year History Since its founding in 1890, Santen has continued to contribute to patients and their loved ones in the specialized field of ophthalmology based on our CORE PRINCIPLE, from which our company name is also derived. 1890— Establishment We have developed many products during our 130-year history and now support the eye health of more than 30 Taking on the challenge million patients worldwide. Pursuing a strategy focused on 1990— 1950— eye drops, and expanding into of internationalization A Brief History of Santen’s Product Innovation (Major products based on year of launch) prescription pharmaceuticals 1890 1890 1899 1890: Establishment 1990: 100th anniversary and formulation Heburin-gan Daigaku Eye Drops Founder Kenkichi Taguchi opened Taguchi Santendo in of a long-term vision (cold medication) More than 120 years after its launch, Kitahama, Osaka, Japan. Announced long-term vision, “To contribute to society Daigaku Eye Drops continues to be a H Heburin-gan, a cold medication, with the best products and services focusing on the eye trusted brand. w its main product at the time. was and health,” and set management objectives that included becoming “a world-class company” and “a leader in all areas of ophthalmic treatment.” 1996: Completed construction of Nara Research 1950 1935: Opening of Yodogawa Plant and Development Center and Shiga Plant Production centered on eye (now Shiga Product Supply Center) drops, gastrointestinal medications, antipyretics, 1962 1962 1987 1987 antidiarrheals and topical Mydrin-P Super Sante Tarivid Rimatil wound medications (mydriatic) (anti-infective ophthalmic) (anti-rheumatic) 1952: Corporate rebuilding with a focus on eye drops 1997: Full-scale entry into the European market 1990 During the post-war reconstruction period, Acquired Oy Star Ab, a Finnish ophthalmic pharmaceutical Santen launched products such as company, and established Santen Oy. In addition to being Daigaku Penicillin Eye Drops, and sought Santen’s first production base outside Japan, this to rebuild by pursuing a strategy focused on eye drops. acquisition marked Santen’s entry into the northern and eastern European markets. 1991 1992 1995 1958: Expansion into prescription Sante FX Kary Uni Hyalein (treatment for early-stage (treatment for corneal disorders) pharmaceuticals business senile cataracts) 1963: Listed on the second section of the Osaka 2000 Securities Exchange 1964: Listed on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 1977: Listed on the first sections of the Tokyo Stock Establishment of Group companies Exchange and the Osaka Securities Exchange 1992: TAHMIN SANTEN CO., LTD. 1982: Opened the Central Research Laboratories (now Taiwan Santen Pharmaceutical 2000 2008 Co., Ltd. / Taiwan) in Osaka, Japan Cravit Tapros 1993: Santen Inc. (U.S.) (anti-infective ophthalmic) (treatment for glaucoma and 1994: Santen GmbH (Germany) 1985: Completed construction of 2010 ocular hypertension) 1996: Beijing Representative Office* (China) Noto Plant 1997: Santen Oy (Finland) To this day, the plant is one of the world’s largest eye SantenPharma AB (Sweden) Claire Co., Ltd. (Special subsidiary drop manufacturing sites. company / Japan) * Now closed FY1970 Revenue FY1990 2010 2013 2018 2019 2019 ¥ 4.6 billion Revenue 2020 Diquas (treatment for dry Alesion (anti-allergy Eybelis (treatment for LENTIS Comfort (intraocular lens) Alesion LX (anti-allergy ¥36.6 billion eye syndrome) ophthalmic) glaucoma and ocular ophthalmic) hypertension) 02 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 03 Our Value Creation 130-Year History Expanding solutions 2000— Making a full-scale entry into Asia 2010— Accelerating global operations to contribute to eye health worldwide 2020— 2000: Establishment of CORE PRINCIPLE 2010: Creation of Vision 2020 2015: Specialization in ophthalmology Established our CORE PRINCIPLE, which articulates the Formulated long-term vision that included management objectives Transferred the anti-rheumatic pharmaceuticals business to AYUMI Formulation of Company’s business philosophy, and formulated Organizational Principles and Individual Action Principles and corresponding strategies with a view to becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” Pharmaceutical Corporation Santen 2030 2016: Acquired InnFocus, Inc. of the U.S. to 2000: Occurrence of OTC product tampering 2011: Acquired Novagali Pharma S.A., a French company enhance the product pipeline and contribute Become A Social Innovator incident. Considering consumer safety first, with excellent formulation technologies such as Novasorb, further to treatment in the glaucoma area Orchestrate and mobilize key immediately recalled all OTC products from to strengthen overseas business in Europe and elsewhere stores. Resumed sales half a month later with the 2018: Sold former corporate headquarters and Osaka technologies and players around Plant site in Osaka, Japan introduction of tamper-evident plastic shrink wrap 2014: Took over ophthalmology assets of Merck the world, to deliver happiness with security printing features. & Co., Inc. of the U.S. to strengthen the glaucoma a 2019: Transferred the Tampere Plant of Santen Oy to business and accelerate global operations through vision NextPharma Oy 2007: Completed construction of Suzhou Plant in China 2020: Announced construction of a second plant for The first plant established Chinese subsidiary Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Co., directly by Santen outside of 2011: Santen India Private Limited (India) Ltd. to meet growing demand for products in China Japan, with the aim of Novagali Pharma S.A. (now Santen S.A.S.) acquired (France) supplying high-quality products 2012: Santen Holdings EU B.V. (Netherlands) 2016: Santen Business Services Co., Ltd. (Japan) for the Chinese market 2013: Santen Pharmaceutical Sales and Marketing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (China) Santen Eye Care Co., Ltd. (Japan) Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office (Vietnam) SANTEN PHARMACEUTICAL (HONG KONG) LIMITED (Hong Kong) Santen Pharmaceutical Asia Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) InnFocus, Inc. acquired (U.S.) 2014: Santen Italy S.r.l. (Italy) Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (China) Santen Switzerland SA (now Santen SA / Switzerland) 2017: SANTEN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (Russia) 2000: Santen Pharmaceutical Korea Co., Ltd. (Korea) Santen UK Limited (U.K.) Santen Ventures, Inc. (U.S.) 2001: Advanced Vision Science, Inc. SANTEN PHILIPPINES INC. (Philippines) 2019: Santen Canada Inc. (Canada) acquired (U.S.) SANTEN (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) 2002: Santen Holdings U.S. Inc. (U.S.) SANTEN PHARMA MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. (Malaysia) 2005: Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Santen Pharmaceutical Spain, S.L. (Spain) Co., Ltd. (China) FY2019 Revenue FY2000 Revenue FY2010 Revenue ¥ 241.6 billion ¥ 88.4 billion ¥ 110.8 billion Overseas Revenue Revenue in Japan 04 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 05 Our Value Creation Business Model and Value Creation As a company specialized in ophthalmology, Santen focuses on the unmet needs of people who have eye problems and From both a financial and non-financial perspective, we aim to develop new solutions by reinvesting the capital created consistently provides value through its solutions. To realize our goal of “Happiness with Vision” (page 20) for people all through various initiatives to earn even greater trust among patients and medical professionals. over the world, we aim to “Becoma A Social Innovator” in ophthalmology (page 20). We provide valuable products and Looking at the external environment, lifestyles are changing due to the diversification of health needs and the widespread services by integrating our own expertise with excellent technologies and knowledge from external partners. In addition, we use of information technology such as smartphones. While technology has advanced through innovation, environmental are committed to contributing to ophthalmology through a cycle of developing valuable products and services, ensuring problems are becoming more serious. With these changes in mind, Santen will help resolve eye-related social issues through stable production and supply, and conveying the value of those products and services to patients and medical professionals. its business, thereby contributing to the SDGs (page 22). In this cycle, we are working to effectively and efficiently use and increase the capital entrusted to us by society. Regarding natural capital, we are working to reduce environmental load through initiatives such as the development of eye-drop bottles made from eco-plastics (page 43). Santen employees worldwide respect diversity (page 46) and Increased environmental Technological awareness turn it into an advantage to create greater outcomes. innovation and evolution Diversifying health needs Lifestyle changes Social Aging society changes Increasing population External technologies r po r ate governanc and expertise e co e sy c er ste m S in ialize Pharmaceutical companies dustr and startups Unmet needs In Product People who have development eye problems Happiness Production and supply with Comme Universities and Santen rc research institutions ializ Vision People Inte e rn Customer ati on communication Specialized ali ze IT and other industries ophthalmology En v ir products and on s me t i ve nta ti a services l init l ini i a t i ve s S o cia (contribute to the development of ophthalmology) Contribute to SDGs 06 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 07 Our Aspirations CEO Message In 2020, based on our CORE PRINCIPLE, “Tenki ni sanyo suru,” we formulated our new WORLD VISION, “Happiness with Vision,” and our new long-term vision, Santen 2030. We strive to realize “The Happiest Life for every individual, through the Best Vision Experience,” by providing a variety of solutions that are not limited to medicines sold in our core business in order to resolve eye-related social issues. Shigeo Taniuchi President and Chief Executive Officer 08 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 09 Our Aspirations CEO Message 2020: A Crucial Turning Point for Santen The Passion behind Our New Vision: Provide Value to People by Going beyond I was appointed CEO in April 2020, which makes this fiscal year one of new responsibility and resolve for me. This year is also a crucial turning point for us because it is the 130th anniversary of our founding Pharmaceutical Frameworks (page 2), and is the final year of the long-term vision Vision 2020 (page 14), and the current mediumterm plan MTP2020. Targeting the next phase of growth, we have launched a new long-term vision, Currently at least 2.2 billion people around the world live with visual impairment or blindness, and for at Santen 2030 (page 18), which is our first step toward 2030 and beyond. least one billion of these people, their vision impairment could have been prevented or has yet to be Looking back on the 10 years of Vision 2020, we have been promoting global expansion with the aim addressed.*1 In addition, the increasing number of elderly people around the world means more people will of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence.” We grew faster than our have concerns about their vision. Furthermore, the number of cases of myopia is increasing as a result of markets, and exceeded our initial expectations through fiscal 2019 by doubling net sales over the past changing lifestyles, and the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the widespread use of digital devices worldwide 10 years while increasing the number of sales countries and regions to over 60. with fewer hours spent outdoors, which is expected to further accelerate the increase in cases of myopia. In addition to organic growth in existing businesses, we have created inorganic growth in ways such Some countries and regions lack ophthalmologists and adequate medical infrastructure, so people may not as acquiring Novagali, taking over the ophthalmic assets of Merck, and acquiring InnFocus. In fact, we be able to receive the appropriate, timely ophthalmological treatment and services they require. were able to expand our presence in Japan, China, Asia and EMEA because we succeeded in creating a I want Santen to be the company that does the most to resolve eye-related social issues and, by virtuous cycle by expanding our product lineup, strengthening our customer base, and enhancing our extension, contribute the most to people worldwide who have eye problems. Based on our WORLD VISION, people and organization. We also entered new markets and increased sales in emerging countries, and “Happiness with Vision,” we will realize “The Happiest Life for every individual, through the Best Vision continued to take on an array of challenges, such as structuring a new business framework and Experience.” This is our new mission. We will accomplish this WORLD VISION by fully leveraging our strengthening our organization for regulatory affairs, production and supply. We are preparing to re-enter specialized expertise and our commitment to eye health. Although ophthalmological needs may differ by the U.S. market, which is a remaining issue. We will establish our presence there with the introduction of country and region, we will respond to those needs, as well as the needs of patients and all people DE-128 (PRESERFLO MicroShunt) as our entry point. around the world, to provide the value to society (page 6) that we know we can. Providing eye drops We have also evolved organizational management in line with the globalization of our operations. and medical devices is just one way to do that. Eye-related issues and needs are increasing, and the Initiatives have included introducing a global matrix organization for R&D and the supply chain, and methods for responding to them will change significantly as the world changes. While new technologies reforms in April 2019 based on a new management framework. Going forward, it will become including IoT and AI are being rapidly introduced into society, various innovations and modalities such as increasingly important to continue to improve the speed and quality of business execution as well as research using AI-based diagnostic techniques, cell therapy, and gene therapy are progressing in enhance productivity and efficiency through organizational reforms in order to further contribute to ophthalmology and the life sciences industry at large. As a “Social Innovator” that goes beyond opthalmology worldwide. We are focusing on making value chains within our organization more organic, pharmaceutical frameworks, we aspire to deliver new and innovative value to the world by integrating enhancing our corporate capabilities and optimizing resources throughout the organization. these technologies with Santen’s strengths. *1 Source: WHO, World report on vision Fiscal 2019 Results FY2019 Percent of Results Revenue YoY Change WORLD VISION: The World Santen Ultimately Aspires to Achieve Core Basis (Billions of yen) Revenue 241.6 +3% Happiness with Vision Operating profit 50.0 21% +4% The Happiest Life for every individual, Net profit 35.9 15% -1% through the Best Vision Experience Core ROE 12.1% IFRS Basis (Billions of yen) Santen 2030 Revenue 241.6 +3% Santen’s VISION: Toward 2030 and Beyond Operating profit 33.5 14% -26% Net profit 21.7 9% -32% Become A Social Innovator ROE 8.0% Orchestrate and mobilize key technologies and Total shareholder return (5-year period) 113.6% players around the world, to deliver happiness through vision Comparative indicator: TOPIX including dividends 101.8% 10 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 11 Our Aspirations CEO Message Santen contributes to people and society and generates sustainable corporate growth by alleviating Our ability to incorporate diversity and transform it into an organizational strength will determine the burden on people who receive medical care and reducing the loss of social and economic opportunities. whether or not we can become a strong organization. In addition, with the determination to grow globally beyond the framework of pharmaceuticals, we have In addition, the importance of corporate governance (page 54) is increasing as society undergoes changed the corporate brand name from “Santen Pharmaceutical” to “Santen.” The next medium-term significant change. Given these social circumstances, we are strengthening the management oversight plan that starts in fiscal 2021 will contain clear performance targets for the future. With a new vision, we functions that enhance the transparency and integrity of management, and the systems and mechanisms will expand our business globally and into a broader array of markets. We will further increase corporate that enable accurate and prompt management decisions and execution. Social change brought about value by maintaining and improving profitability while ensuring that management also considers capital by the COVID-19 outbreak has given us the opportunity to inspect and enhance systems to ensure efficiency (page 28). business continuity. The COVID-19 outbreak has made people think more about the importance of health beyond national boundaries and made us realize anew that our business contributes to society. Stable supply of products Sustainability Management Centered on Making is indispensable because there are many chronic eye diseases. Therefore, we are not only ensuring that we maintain a stable business continuity system, but also executing our mission of properly delivering Contributions to Patients products to patients globally through the efforts of Santen employees around the world, regardless of country or department. By sharing this mission, we have been able to further enhance the sense of unity Ophthalmic pharmaceuticals are Santen’s primary products. However, I have come to think that we in our organization. In addition, cases of eye stress and myopia have been increasing with changes in should further expand Santen’s business not only in ophthalmic pharmaceuticals but also in other areas in lifestyles, and this is an important issue we will address during Santen 2030. We are keenly aware of the order to continue to contribute to ophthalmology and patients’ quality of life based on our CORE PRINCIPLE importance of investing in the development of new products and services and providing new value to (page 1). Resolving eye-related issues often involves not only pharmaceuticals, but also surgical, physical patients and all people. In addition, COVID-19 requires us to adapt to the new normal by revolutionizing and optical approaches, which may include surgery or glasses. In addition, the world is constantly the way we work and interact with society. We must truly ensure business continuity through the safety transitioning to better technology, and treatment options may not always be pharmaceutical related. In that and hygiene of the work environment as well as the technology that supports it, in all situations. We will context, I began to wonder if it was right for Santen to continue focusing its business only on ophthalmic create an environment in which we can connect with people all over the world using digital tools, ensure pharmaceuticals, and if we were taking the perspective of patients. Since creating a balanced scorecard a better work environment to further reduce environmental loading and improve sustainability, and reform that placed society first as part of my graduation thesis at the school where I was studying abroad in 2007, work styles to meet the needs of diverse employees. I have come to firmly believe that the true goal of increasing corporate value is to contribute to society. For Finally, as CEO, I will implement various reforms starting in 2020. This will mark our first step toward Santen, that means contributing to ophthalmology and patients. This belief has been the basis of my 2030 and beyond. At the same time, Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE – “Tenki ni sanyo suru” – will not actions and it became the reason for revaluating what is important to Santen. Therefore, we identified change. Based on our CORE PRINCIPLE, I personally, and Santen collectively, will work to contribute to materialities (page 22) in line with the formulation of our new long-term vision in order to implement patients and their loved ones around the world by focusing resources on markets related to the eyes. We initiatives that further increase corporate value. will continue to put patients at the center of everything we do as we leverage our expertise in ophthalmology, Visual impairment (page 44) is also an essential theme for social needs associated with the eyes. and the strengths of our global business to enhance and evolve our activities to contribute to the health of Currently, Santen has four people with visual impairments and they disseminate relevant information both people worldwide. We are counting on the continued support of shareholders, investors and all stakeholders. inside and outside the Company. In addition, we are promoting global initiatives to realize a society that is inclusive regardless of visual impairment. Initiatives include supporting sports for the visually impaired. By resolving these eye-related social issues, we will contribute directly to achieving the SDGs related to universal health coverage and to creating the foundation for technological innovation. Through our business activities, we will also contribute to other SDGs such as achieving gender equality and realizing decent work and economic growth. Santen makes its intentions clear by continuing to support the United Nations Global Compact. I have a strong desire to promote diversity (page 46) because I experienced Shigeo Taniuchi the challenges as well as the joy and value of generating positive outcomes with genderand nationalityPresident and Chief Executive Officer diverse teams as Head of Santen Europe (now EMEA). Santen has about 4,000 employees, and more than half of them are outside Japan. Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2020) EMEA China 667 Americas 808 257 Japan Asia 1,994 382 12 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 13 Our Aspirations Vision 2020: Past and Present 241.6 234.0 235.0 Long-Term Strategic Vision: Vision 2020 224.9 To Become a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” 199.1 • Deep understanding of true customer needs 195.3 • Distinct advantage against competitors • Global competitiveness and presence In 2010, Santen formulated its long-term strategic vision toward 2020, with the goal of becoming a “Specialized 161.8 Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” by focusing resources on ophthalmology and energetically expanding overseas. The number of sales countries and regions has expanded from approximately 35 in 2010 to more than 60 146.3 today. In addition to Japan, where Santen has a dominant market share, we are expanding our presence as a globally unique company specializied in ophthalmology, mainly in Revenue (Billions of yen) China, Asia, and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). 119.1 114.4 Maximize new global product value Establish and reinforce overseas businesses Strengthen Japan business framework and competitiveness Medium-Term Plan 2011–2013 Medium-Term Plan 2014–2017 Realize a path to long-term Ratio of overseas sales: 16% Ratio of overseas sales: 30% growth through opportunities • Strengthened Japan business • Grew and improved profitability in Asia and EMEA unique to a company specialized • Completed preparation for business • Prepared for business expansion to U.S. and expansion in Asia and EMEA other regions in ophthalmology FY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Forecast) Sales Countries and Regions Ratio of Overseas Sales Overseas Subsidiaries Employees FY2010 FY2019 FY2010 FY2019 FY2010 FY2019 FY2010 FY2019 Approx. Approx. Approx. Approx. Approx. 35 2 times Approx. 17% 2 times 10 3 times 2,867 1.5 times 14 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 15 Our Aspirations Vision 2020: Past and Present Targeting Significant Progress outside Japan value. To this end, we have evolved our business model Progress toward Achieving Vision 2020 from one based on operating overseas using products In 2010, Santen formulated its long-term strategic vision and knowledge developed in Japan to one based on • Launched new products including Alesion, Eybelis and Ikervis toward 2020, with the goal of becoming a “Specialized operating globally using an array of assets encompassing • Built a global R&D system Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” by products and knowledge developed both inside Japan Product • Accelerated expansion of our product franchises from Japan to overseas focusing resources on ophthalmology and energetically and at Group companies around the world. We believe Development • Started applying new technologies such as gene therapy, cell therapy and digital technology to expanding overseas. that providing products and services that meet the needs ophthalmology We have been promoting international expansion since of each country and region with a customer-oriented the 1990s, but in 2010 our overseas sales ratio was only approach is the source of our growth and is a factor that • Achieved higher growth than the market as a core business about 17%. We have defined a “Specialized Pharmaceutical enhances our global presence. • Transformation into a Solutions Provider Company with a Global Presence” as a company that has In 2014, we acquired glaucoma products from Merck & Japan —Integrated Rx, OTC and surgical businesses global competitiveness and presence, a deep Co., Inc. which greatly accelerated our global expansion. —Patient-centered services such as ACT Pack (tool for supporting continuous glaucoma treatment) understanding of true customer needs, and a distinct In 2015, we sold our anti-rheumatic pharmaceuticals • Rx market share #1*1 advantage over competitors. We set five policies to business to AYUMI Pharmaceutical Corporation, which • Achieved both double-digit growth and monetization achieve our vision and growth targets, which included enabled us to concentrate all of our resources on • Realized high customer satisfaction by strengthening sales foundation, providing high-quality becoming the third-largest company in the global ophthalmology. products and conducting customer-oriented activities ophthalmic drug market, achieving sales of ¥200 billion or The number of sales countries and regions has China • Rx market share #1*1 more and operating profit of ¥50 billion or more. increased from about 35 in 2010 to more than 60 today. • Suzhou Plant: Obtained EU GMP certification (only Santen has achieved this among all Chinese Our vision calls for generating long-term growth in With regard to performance targets, in fiscal 2017 we ophthalmic pharmaceutical companies); decided to construct a second plant stages by strengthening our Japan business framework achieved revenue of ¥200 billion yen three years ahead of and market creation, establishing and reinforcing our schedule, and in fiscal 2019 we achieved operating profit • Achieved both double-digit growth and monetization overseas businesses, and maximizing new global product (core basis) of ¥50 billion yen. • Focused on medical needs by adapting to country-specific conditions and established our own Global Expansion Asia sales systems • Expanded product portfolio 1. Develop products that meet true customer needs swiftly • Korea: Rx market share #1*1 2. Transform Japan business for further growth • Achieved both higher growth than market and monetization Five Policies 3. Accelerate business expansion in Asia and promote market • Launched new products to address unmet medical needs, including preservative-free products entry in western Europe and the U.S. EMEA to Achieve 4. Establish competitive global product supply and quality • Expanded to pan-European geographical coverage from our original business in northern and eastern Europe, leveraging the acquisition of the glaucoma franchise from MSD Our Vision assurance systems • Built our presence in EMEA, which has global regulatory and academic influence 5. Strengthen talent and organizational capabilities to promote creation and innovation • Started selling products in Canada North • Prepared for steady U.S. market entry —DE-128: Completed NDA filing in aiming for market entry with a differentiated product, with launch America planned in fiscal 2020 —Partnered with Glaukos for exclusive distribution of DE-128 in the U.S. and built a sales system Onward to 2030 development have created difficulties in balancing profitably with development and investment risks using a Since we formulated Vision 2020, the competitive conventional product-driven business model. However, environment in the ophthalmic pharmaceutical market has we are very confident that our existing customer-oriented • Reduced cost ratio and responded to demand despite limited capacity Product Supply changed significantly due to global reorganization among business model of developing an array of products and • Built global supply chain pharmaceutical companies and the launch of high-priced services that are not limited to pharmaceuticals can pharmaceuticals, so global sales volume and presence contribute to patients and grow our business. To become are not necessarily aligned. In this environment, to a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global contribute the development of ophthalmology and achieve Presence,” we plan to enter the U.S. market, the world’s • Developed Santen Leadership Competencies (SLC) globally as the basis for our expectations Global sustainable corporate growth, we have reaffirmed our largest ophthalmic pharmaceutical market, by launching for personnel based on our CORE PRINCIPLE Organization CORE PRINCIPLE and decided that our Group-wide DE-128, a device used in glaucoma surgery, in the final • Started standardization of core business processes and business optimization globally Structure objective is to enhance our presence through customeryear of Vision 2020. • Transformed into true global organization based on new management framework oriented activities, rather than fixating on our goal of As a globally unique company specialized in becoming the third-largest company in the global ophthalmology, we will leverage our strengths and global *1 Source: Copyright © 2020 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on IQVIA MIDAS 2019. Reprinted with permission. ophthalmic pharmaceutical market. On the other hand, presence to achieve Vision 2020 and contribute to the rising R&D costs and intensifying competition in new drug development of ophthalmology and corporate growth. 16 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 17 Our Aspirations Our New Vision Number of People Affected Worldwide Global estimates of numbers of people affected by common eye conditions that can cause vision impairment Trachomatous trichiasis At least 2.2 billion people have a vision impairment or are blind Diabetic retinopathy 2.5 146 million million Age-related Presbyopia 1.8 macular degeneration 196 billion million Glaucoma 76 million Myopia 2.6 billion Of these 2.2 billion people, at least 1 billion have a vision impairment that could have been prevented or has yet to be addressed Source: Based on data in the WHO’s World report on vision The State of Eye Conditions Worldwide conditions are thought to have no effect on vision, but Santen’s Mission in a Society Predicated adults, vision impairment can contribute to social isolation they reduce quality of life due to discomfort and distress, on Vision and a greater likelihood of early entry into nursing homes In 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) released and have the potential to impair vision if left untreated. or care facilities. It also has a serious impact on daily life, its World report on vision. It was the WHO’s first “Population growth and aging” and “changing lifestyles” The World report on vision underscores the primacy of such as a greater likelihood of being involved in a motor published global research report on ophthalmology and are the main causes of the increase in the number of cases sight among the five senses in a society predicated on vehicle accident. In addition, vision impairment can be a vision impairment. of vision impairment. By 2030, the world’s population over vision. For example, babies recognize their mothers and temporal, financial and psychological burden for families, According to the report, many people worldwide still the age of 60 is forecast to have increased from about 962 deepen their bonds with them through sight, which is as well as for those who care for and support people with suffer from eye problems. At least 2.2 billion people around million in 2017 to 1.4 billion, and the population over the central to actions such as learning to balance on their feet impaired vision. the world live with vision impairment or blindness due to age of 80 is forecast to have increased from the current and walk. At school, people read books and learn. We Today, many people around the world do not have various eye problems such as myopia and presbyopia, 137 million to 202 million. The prevalence of eye diseases communicate with people around us through facial access to the ophthalmological treatment they require. age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, increases with age, so the higher number of elderly people expressions and gestures, and everything in our lives, Santen specializes in the eyes. As such, using our unique and glaucoma, and at least one billion of these people is likely to mean there will be a higher number of people from work and social life to sports and cultural activities, abilities to address the challenges that will arise from the have a vision impairment that could have been prevented with vision impairment worldwide. For example, from 2020 depends on vision. In addition, vision plays an important expected future increases in ophthalmic disorders and or has yet to be addressed. In addition, ophthalmological to 2030, the number of glaucoma patients is expected to role in maintaining contact with society and maintaining vision impairment is our social mission and responsibility. conditions that are not generally considered to cause vision increase 1.3 times and the number of age-related macular mental and physical health among the elderly. impairment require attention. In developed, emerging and degeneration patients is expected to increase 1.2 times. Vision impairment can impede motor skills, as well as developing countries alike, the main reasons people see The number of cataract and dry eye patients is also language, emotional, social and cognitive development in an ophthalmologist are conditions such as conjunctivitis, expected to increase. children. For adults, vision impairment can have a negative eyelid abnormalities, pterygium and dry eye. These impact on work and mental health. In the case of older 18 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 19 Our Aspirations Our New Vision WORLD VISION and Santen’s VISION Santen formulated its VISION with “People Centricity” Three Strategies as a Social Innovator as the core mindset. Santen employees always put people WORLD VISION is the world Santen ultimately aspires to at the center of every action to help people achieve happy achieve based on its CORE PRINCIPLE. Santen’s VISION lives through improved vision. is what Santen aspires to be in 2030 and beyond with the aim of realizing its WORLD VISION. CORE PRINCIPLE Ophthalmology • Innovation in Ophthalmology • Acceleration of Ecosystem Development Wellness Awareness and Proactive Care toward Better Eye Condition Inclusion Building society that is inclusive regardless of visual impairment WORLD VISION The World Santen Ultimately Aspires to Achieve Happiness with Vision The Happiest Life for every individual, Our Ophthalmology strategy aims for innovation in Our Wellness strategy aims to support people in their through the Best Vision Experience ophthalmology and acceleration of ecosystem pursuit of better eye health. As a “Social Innovator,” development. First, innovation in ophthalmology involves Santen believes in the importance of encouraging the initiatives in our core businesses such as the creation of public to recognize and understand the importance of therapeutic solutions for unmet needs and the vision and eye health in daily life. In addition, Santen also Santen’s VISION development of innovative treatment technologies such as facilitates early detection of eye disease and pursuit of Toward 2030 and Beyond cell therapy and gene therapy. In addition, from prevention better eye conditions according to the life stage. We do Become A Social Innovator and diagnosis to aftercare, we will put patients at the this by using digital technology, providing products and center of everything we do in going beyond our services that help maintain and improve eye health, and Orchestrate and mobilize key technologies pharmaceutical framework to take on the challenge of predicting and visualizing risks to eye health. and players around the world, to deliver implementing new initiatives. These initiatives will include Our Inclusion strategy aims to build a society that is happiness through vision developing and providing optimal solutions that extend inclusive regardless of visual impairment. We want to raise beyond treatment and cover the patient’s entire life and awareness and understanding of people with visual searching for solutions that go beyond pharmaceuticals. impairments as well as promote ways for people to share GOAL In addition, for acceleration of ecosystem development enjoyable times and their values with each other. Santen in ophthalmology, we will continue to steadily implement will therefore explore new solutions centered on the use of Aim to reduce the loss of social and economic core business initiatives such as the development, sale digital technology to improve the quality of life of people opportunities for people around the world due and stable supply of ophthalmic pharmaceuticals and with visual impairments. to eye conditions surgical devices. We will also implement activities according to the degree of infrastructure development of eye care in the countries and regions we serve. https://www.santen.com/en/brand/santen2030/ Santen 2030 in technology, we must embrace external technologies to provide solutions tailored to the aspirations of various Considering the likely changes in the world over the people. Santen will implement three strategies, coming 10 or 20 years, including population growth and “Ophthalmology,” “Wellness,” and “Inclusion,” to aging and changing lifestyles, the number of people with strategically address eye-related social issues. Under vision impairment will further increase. As a result of Santen 2030, Santen has identified three strategies as diversifying individual preferences and innovative advances management priorities for 2030 and beyond. 20 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 21 Our Aspirations Our New Vision Management Priorities (Materialities) We have positioned the three strategies of Santen 2030 and our four ESG materialities as management priorities. Through our businesses, we aim to contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3, “Ensure healthy lives Strategy and ESG materialities are management priorities. and promote well-being for all at all ages,” and to the other SDGs adopted by UN member states. Santen has identified four environment, social and governance (ESG) materialities with the objectives of contributing to the sustainable development of society by resolving social issues and further enhancing corporate value over the medium-to-long term. Core Organization for Management Priorities Sustainability Policy (Materialities) We have established our sustainability policy incorporating the standpoint of ESG into our World VISION and Santen’s VISION, formulated from the perspective of creating shared value (CSV). Based on Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE, this policy How What What How shows that Santen not only contributes to the sustainable development of society but also aims to achieve its own sustainable growth. ESG Materialities • Maintenance and enhancement of trust in products and services • Encouragement of an organizational culture that promotes value creation Based on Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE, “Tenki ni sanyo suru,” Santen not only contributes to • Reinforcement of governance and prevention of corruption the sustainable development of society but also aims to achieve its own sustainable growth. • Conservation of the global environment COR E VALUES PRIN E COR E CIPL CIPL E PRIN • WORLD VISION: “The Happiest Life for every individual, through the Best Vision Experience” RLD WO N IO • Santen’s VISION: “Become A Social Innovator – Orchestrate and mobilize key CSV Sustainability VIS technologies and players around the world, to deliver happiness through vision” Env Policy iron STRATEGY m Soc ent Gov ial Ophthalmology • Provide people around the world with high-quality, safe products and services, ern s anc ten’ (Innovation in ophthamology and as well as information helpful for the treatment and prevention of diseases e San ON I acceleration of ecosystem development) VIS Wellness • Actively incorporate diverse talent and values to enhance our competiveness (Awareness and proactive care toward and foster a corporate culture that helps increase the value we provide ESG Aim to reduce the loss of better eye condition) social and economic GOA L Inclusion opportunities for people L GOA • Perform fair and transparent corporate management and promote business (Building society that is inclusive around the world due to regardless of visual impairment) activities that protect human rights labor and the global environment eye conditions ESG Materialities The four ESG materialities are aimed at contributing to the sustainable development of society and improving Santen’s medium-to-long-term corporate value. In order to break down the materialities into specific activities, we have presented 12 issues for promoting the activities, and disclose the progress of our efforts on our website as necessary. https://www.santen.com/en/csr/policy/index.jsp#sec04 ESG Materialities Issue (Item) Direction of Initiatives ESG Materialities Issue (Item) Direction of Initiatives Maintenance and Assurance of quality and safety, Reinforcement of • Build a highly effective corporate governance system Corporate governance enhancement of trust and establishment of an • While ensuring product quality and safety, and audit system governance and in products and appropriate supply system establish a system that supplies products to patients prevention of Compliance • Ensure sensible corporate conduct based on legal as needed services Provision of appropriate information corruption compliance and sound ethics • Provide patients and medical professionals with on products and services Risk management • Fulfill our responsibility to supply products to patients appropriate information on products and services Evaluation and management of by establishing an information management and that help treat and prevent diseases monitoring system and responding appropriately to the supply chain Respect for human rights various risks Encouragement of an Promotion of diversity and inclusion Measures against climate change • Implement initiatives to mitigate climate change by organizational culture Conservation of the reducing CO2 emissions and using low-carbon • Actively incorporate diverse talent and values that promotes value Building a high-value-added and regardless of nationality, age or beliefs global environment resources and energy creation highly productive work • Target increased corporate value by leveraging • Implement initiatives to address the depletion of environment diversity to generate business growth Reducing our environmental impact natural resources by switching to renewable raw Human resource development materials and materials, such as the use of ecoplastics for eye drop packaging 22 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 23 Feature Long-Term Vision Santen 2030: meetings of all members, small-group discussions by In addition to the participation of junior employees, theme, market surveys and fieldwork outside Japan. This over 20 senior managers, including Outside Directors, Our Challenges and Mindset was important in examining aspects of the long-term were involved in formulating the long-term vision. vision and determining specifics. Complementing discussions among senior Santen has announced a new long-term vision toward 2030 and beyond. The new vision embraces our The third key area was change management with the management, members of the long-term vision sense of mission and embodies our strong desire to contribute to the eye health of people around the world. goal of transforming our corporate culture. About 30 formulation project proposed plans to and held This feature tells the story behind the formulation of our new long-term vision as well as our thoughts. members participated, serving as early adopters of our multiple discussions with senior management. The aspirational values and conduct, and as organizational dialogue also included external stakeholders such as influencers. Through discussions with the President and experts and investors to facilitate the identification of workshops, this group finalized issues including our important management issues (materialities). desired organization, and what the organization and employees should and should not change in order to achieve our goals. Change management measures are now underway in each department as we are in the A New Long-Term Vision That Incorporates Processes That Involved Various implementation phase of Santen 2030. the Thoughts of about 500 Employees Participants What would later become the new long-term vision was The framework for the new long-term vision took shape first conceptualized about two years ago in an internal during discussions among a small group including the document called the “Taniuchi Paper.” It covers the President. Many other employees then became involved outlook for the business environment over the coming 10 in formulating the vision in the following three key areas. to 20 years, the need for new growth drivers, an The first key area was finding co-creators to join the Key Initiatives evaluation of what Santen needs to keep doing and what project. President Taniuchi himself invited participation in it needs to change and the strengths and challenges of Japan, which accounts for the largest proportion of existing September 2018 2019 2020 Summary Santen in terms of its business and organization. businesses and has the most employees, and approximately Intensive discussion among a small group including the President Shaped overall framework of vision After the Taniuchi Paper was drafted, about 500 380 employees applied. Co-creators regularly shared in employees became involved in developing the new the conceptualization process as the vision developed via long-term vision, right up until it was announced. In order online meetings, and the new long-term vision incorporated Discussion and identification of Discussion among senior managers Proposal Proposal Proposal management issues to create and execute new growth drivers under Santen their frank opinions and feedback. Project members also 2030, it will be important for Santen to create empathy for acted as general consumers that participated in interviews Strategizing on long-term vision by about Long-term vision formulation projectctt 60 project members the vision and a corporate culture that moves ahead with and surveys regarding eye health. transformation. We involved many employees in the The second key area was the long-term vision Regular communication and feedback development process in order to raise their understanding formulation project, an important mission directly related Participation of co-creators among approximately 380 co-creators and enhance organizational implementation. Other goals to shaping the long-term vision. The project ran for more Transformation into the desired organizational include promoting employee growth and increasing the than a year, and approximately 60 people were involved Change management culture and develop activities for each sense of unity among employees given their increasing including the Project Management Office (PMO), project organization diversity as our businesses become more global. members and support members. The project involved Identification of materialities based on social Consideration of materialities issues and input from external stakeholders 24 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 25 Our Aspirations State of Ophthalmology in Asia Ascertained Regional comparison*1 of total number of people with Santen Aims to Achieve “The Happiest overlap in the discussions among participants from many bilateral moderate to severe distance vision impairment or different departments, but the process began to move through Fieldwork Life for Every Individual, through the blindness and estimated proportion with vision impairment forward and deepen as participants looked at things from that could have been prevented or has yet to be addressed Best Vision Experience” by Leveraging The fieldwork carried out in the long-term vision formulation the standpoint of our principle. In another case, the Its Knowledge and Employee Unity project further deepened and strengthened Santen’s analysis of unknown fields proved difficult for participants desire to contribute to the development of ophthalmology. (Millions of people) The involvement of many employees has provided useful and required a lot of work, including research from 80 This section shares the status of ophthalmology in Asia, input and has also led to many discoveries and increased scratch. However, sharing a common desire helped where there are many potential patients. knowledge for the Company and members who participated participants support each other and overcome challenges. 60 in creating the vision. Going forward, we will take advantage of the knowledge Ecosystem Development Based on the Ophthalmological To take the long-term vision formulation project, as an we gained in formulating our vision, and unite employees 40 Needs of Each Country and Region example, the key to the process in which project members based on our CORE PRINCIPLE. We will transform the Ophthalmological treatment varies by country and region. overcame challenges, functioned as a team, and changes brought on by the new long-term vision into 20 This is especially true in Asia. For example, receiving produced results was that all participants shared the successes as we make Santen 2030 and our WORLD medical care is difficult in some regions due to insufficient 0 desire to contribute to ophthalmology worldwide based VISION a reality. High Central Latin North South South Subon our CORE PRINCIPLE. In the beginning, there was no medical personnel and facilities, and optometrists and Income Europe, America Africa East Asia, Asia Saharan Eastern and and East Asia Africa nurses join ophthalmologists as key ophthalmology Europe, Caribbean Middle and providers. In addition, the quality of medical care may vary Central East Oceania Asia depending on the medical institution. Receiving high-level People with vision impairment that could have been*2 medical care often entails significant financial and prevented or is yet to be addressed Participant Comments geographic hurdles and long waiting lines. People with vision impairment that could not have When I was given the chance to be involved in the The project led me to realize anew the impact of Furthermore, systemic problems for patients who been prevented or addressed Vision 2030 project, I realized that Santen may be vision on people’s quality of life and the magnitude recognize a disease, go to a medical institution, and the only company that really cares about people’s of eye-related social issues. I would like to create a *1 By Global Burden of Disease regions undergo diagnosis and treatment vary by country, region eye health and that its resolve to be a “Social world where people can experience the joy of vision *2 Based on the number of people with moderate to severe distance vision impairment or blindness caused diabetic Innovator” and bring happiness through healthy eyes no matter how old they are. and disease. In delivering appropriate ophthalmic treatment retinopathy, trachoma, corneal opacity, glaucoma, goes far beyond just providing pharmaceuticals. We to all people and at the required time, it is necessary to unaddressed refractive error and cataract. should be proud and united in action and spirit to Source: WHO, World report on vision achieve this mission. Happiness with Vision! respond based on the ophthalmological needs of each Source: Flaxman SR, Bourne RRA, Resnikoff S, Ackland P, country and region. This involves making screening Braithwaite T, Cicinelli MV, et al. Global causes of blindness and Suchaw Kumnoonsup Daisuke Ikumi distance vision impairment 1990–2020: a systematic review and Head of Corporate Planning & Strategy, Asia (Asia Corp Development), Team Manager, Sales Promotion Team, Sales Planning Promotion Group opportunities such as eye examinations available, meta-analysis. The Lancet Global Health. 2017.5 (12): e1221–e34. Santen Pharmaceutical Asia Pte. Ltd. Sales Department, Japan Sales and Marketing Division increasing the number of medical professionals and facilities, and improving the quality of medical care overall. Early detection of diseases is also important in Regional comparison of the total number of people Fieldwork and interviews showed me that many It was an honor to participate in the project. Defining proactively maintaining eye health. Many people do not go with myopia*3 people too easily take vision and eye health for strategy without the typical business constraints was granted, and live in a social environment that does a refreshing approach. Global collaboration with my to a hospital unless they notice symptoms. This is due to not encourage care. Under the new vision, I would Santen colleagues enlightened me regarding the (Millions of people) various factors including the medical insurance system, like to help resolve these social issues. highest unmet needs and the unique approaches 1,200 financial burden and awareness of eye defects. For required to meet them at both a national and regional level. The next 10 years will be very exciting and I example, in many countries and regions where medical 800 look forward to contributing to make this a reality. institutions are well aware of myopia, people may not be Mayumi Nakamura Frank Chen as aware and do not deal with myopia appropriately Manager, Ocular Surface and Anterior Segment Therapeutic Area Strategy, Associate Director, U.S. Business Development & Venture Management, 400 Ophthalmology Innovation Center Santen Inc. because they have not received accurate information. Changes in lifestyles such as reduced time spent outdoors 0 High Central Latin North South South Submay result in an increase in the number of people with Income Europe, America Africa East Asia, Asia Saharan Eastern and and East Asia Africa myopia. Incidence of myopia is expected to accelerate Europe, Caribbean Middle and further due to the increased use of digital devices, less Central East Oceania Asia than adequate outdoor environments and other factors. *3 By Global Burden of Disease regions Source: WHO, World report on vision Source: Holden BA, Fricke TR, Wilson DA, Jong M, Naidoo KS, Sankaridurg P, et al. Global Prevalence of Myopia and High Myopia and Temporal Trends from 2000 through 2050. Ophthalmology. 2016; 123 (5): 1036–42. 26 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 27 Our Approach Financial Strategy/CFO Message A Financial Strategy That Supports Kazuo Koshiji Senior Corporate Officer Sustainable Growth Based on Our Corporate Administration Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Long-Term Vision Head of Finance and Administration Division Basic Approach our core information systems to improve business Shareholder Returns COVID-19 efficiency on a global level. Santen strives to maximize shareholder value by both At the same time, for investment in business Our basic policy ensures that management places the Even if lockdowns and other measures due to the fully leveraging cash flow and reducing capital cost. We development and other projects for inorganic growth, greatest importance on shareholder returns. Santen COVID-19 outbreak are extended, there will be no serious have set return on equity (ROE) as a primary indicator. we will continue to appropriately evaluate expected prioritizes shareholder returns, and distributes impact on the implementation of the above policies and Under our current medium-term plan, MTP2020 (page returns and risks. This will lead to the creation of earnings to shareholders primarily through dividends strategies. In addition to working capital in each region, 64), we have been working to reduce our assets—and shareholder value. Going forward, we expect an as well as share repurchases after comprehensively the Company has secured cash within the Group and consequently raise asset efficiency—through means increase in projects such as the licensing agreement considering the medium-to-long-term business established a line of credit with a financial institution so including the sale of the site of former Osaka Plant, the with jCyte Inc. (jCell therapy program for retinitis environment, funding requirements, internal capital that it does not miss out on investment opportunities for transfer of the Tampere Plant in Finland, the sale of pigmentosa) and the joint venture with Verily Life reserves, and capital structure. Under MTP2020, we future growth. By these means, the Company will steadily cross-shareholdings in business partners and an Sciences LLC, both of which incorporate new have already repurchased Company shares one time carry out its medium-to-long-term strategies. additional cash contribution to pension assets. In technologies and address needs arising from changing and increased dividends one time. addition, our effective tax rate has been reduced from lifestyles. We will continue to increase the number of To continue to reward shareholders who hold their the former 30%-40% range to the mid-20s in real terms. projects with a view toward global market growth. shares for a long period, we will provide return on profit As for capital cost, we did not obtain funding because Based on the pecking order theory, we expect our based on a policy of keeping the dividend payout ratio the funds we needed for investment and other purposes financial resources to come from liquidity on hand and of 40% in the foreseeable future. As a yardstick for were within the range of liquidity on hand. In addition, we debt issuance. In this way, we will optimize our stability and sustainability, this will give shareholders a were able to reduce financial expenses by negotiating debt-to-equity ratio, leading to a further reduction in clear sense of the Company’s growth. lower interest rates and by extending the term of our capital cost. existing interest-bearing debt, among other measures. Above all, we set minimum-level evaluation standards for capital cost in considering projects to 51 51 49 46 48 (%) ensure the success of the investments we make. 42 Fiscal 2020 and Thereafter 38 Moreover, to maximize return on our investments, we 30 33 There will be no change in our basic policy of improving established the International Financial Headquarters (IFHQ) in Geneva, Switzerland in October 2019. IFHQ 19 profitability and generating cash through a focus on the field of ophthalmology, thus maximizing shareholder value. aims to further improve capital efficiency, maximize As we pursue the Company’s optimal capital structure, cash and reduce capital cost by working for global 26 26 26 27 28 (Yen) encompassing capital efficiency and financial soundness, optimization through central management of 25 conditions and cash at businesses that are expanding 22 we will maintain an appropriate balance between upfront 20 20 20 investment for future growth and internal reserves and the globally. IFHQ will also oversee currency exchange return of profits to shareholders. and interest rate risks. Taking an overview of Santen 2030, our new longterm vision (page 18), we will enter a cycle of increasing capital investment in the first half of the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) (Forecast) decade. For example, we will increase production Dividend per share (Yen) Payout ratio (%) capacity in Japan and China, and invest in upgrading Shares repurchased (Billions of yen) ー 13.7 ー ー ー 12.3 ー 13.9 ー ー Total return ratio (%)*1 51 134 42 38 19 106 30 76 46 48 *1 The total return ratio forecast for FY2020 does not include the possibility of a share repurchase. Calculated based on JGAAP to FY2013 and IFRS from FY2014. 28 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 29 Our Approach Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Please see the sections on the environment (page 43) and diversity and inclusion (page 46) for specific initiatives related to the following indicators. Further Information: Please refer to Employment and Human Resources Data and Environmental Data Book on our website for additional information. https://www.santen.com/en/csr/library/ Financial Data Non-Financial Data Revenue, Core Operating Profit, Core Operating Profit Margin, and Overseas Sales to Revenue CO2 Emissions Total Water Usage Volume of Waste and Final Disposal Ratio In fiscal 2019, revenue increased 3.2% year on year to ¥241.6 billion, and core operating profit increased 3.7% to ¥50.0 billion. Santen is proactively reducing emissions by Our medium-term goal is to maintain the The final disposal rate for fiscal 2018 We expect that fiscal 2020 revenue will decrease year on year due to the impact of COVID-19, but earnings will continue to grow. switching to non-combustion systems when fiscal 2017 level of water usage per unit of increased temporarily due to factors In addition, we forecast that core operating profit will increase for the fourth consecutive year to ¥52.0 billion yen. replacing older equipment, and is reducing revenue (2.4 thousand m³) until fiscal 2020. including the disposal of unneeded energy consumption by adopting highequipment that accompanied the sale of efficiency equipment. Our medium-term goal is the former corporate headquarters and to reduce CO2 emissions in fiscal 2020 by 10% Osaka Plant, but Santen’s medium-term compared with fiscal 2005 (38,175t-CO2). goal through fiscal 2020 is to keep the final disposal ratio below the level of fiscal 2017. 33,371 34,160 33,138 241.6 33,108 31,840 588 234.0 235.0 552 545 559 254 224.9 519 34.9 199.1 31.7 31.4 163 166 2.7 2.8 29.5 148 146 137 2.4 2.4 2.4 8.0 27.0 107 22.1 62 19.9 20.2 20.6 20.7 40 2.1 37 3.3 1.2 1.4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) CO2 Emissions (t-CO2) Total water usage (Thousand m3) Volume of waste (t) Final disposal ratio (%) CO2 emissions per unit of revenue (t-CO2/Billion yen) Water usage per unit of revenue (Thousand m3/Billion yen) Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, 45.4 48.2 45.1 50.0 52.0 Scope of aggregation: All operational bases in Japan, Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, Noto Plant, Nara Research and Development Center, 39.7 35.0 Shimoshinjo Ofﬁce, Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant 38.7 33.5 Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant Noto Plant, Nara Research and Development Center, 32.5 Shimoshinjo Ofﬁce, Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant Number of Employees Ratio of Female Employees Ratio of Female in Management Positions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Approximately 50% of Santen’s employees Our global ratio of male to female As of March 31, 2020, the female (Forecast) are outside Japan because of the continued employees is 59:41. manager ratio was 12.6% in Japan and Revenue (Billions of yen) Core operating proﬁt (Billions of yen) Operating proﬁt (IFRS) (Billions of yen) growth of our businesses globally. 33% globally. Core operating proﬁt margin (%) Overseas sales to revenue (%) 4,073 4,108 3,805 257 3,463 3,667 42 41 33 33 667 Santen discloses financial information on a core basis to better express its recurring business 382 About Core Basis Results performance. Financial information on a core basis excludes certain gains and expenses from IFRS results on a reported (full) basis. 808 23.6 23.0 23.5 23.3 24.2 12.6 10.2 10.0 10.7 9.9 1,994 ROE R&D Expenses and R&D Expenses Dividend per Share and Payout Ratio Santen works to optimize capital efficiency to Revenue Stable shareholder returns are a to maintain and improve ROE. Santen invests in R&D to generate management priority. Santen plans to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) medium-to-long-term growth. increase the annual dividend for fiscal Japan China Asia EMEA Americas Female employee ratio (non-consolidated) (%) Female manager ratio (non-consolidated) (%) 2020 by ¥1.00 to ¥28.00 per share. Female employee ratio (consolidated) (%) Female manager ratio (consolidated) (%) * China is not included in the ﬁgure for Asia 49.1 48.0 Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Average Monthly Overtime and Male Employees Taking 45.6 24.4 (Santen Group in Japan) Average Days of Annual Paid Leave Childcare Leave 22.8 23.8 23.3 23.0 33.0 The ratio of employees with disabilities as Santen is implementing measures such Santen actively encourages male 30.0 13.0 27 28 of June 2020 was 2.62%, which exceeds as encouraging employees to take paid employees to take childcare leave. The 12.5 12.1 26 26 26 11.3 the statutory employment rate. In January leave so that all employees can maintain ratio of employees returning to work after 12.4 11.4 10.8 10.2 9.7 9.8 2019, our special subsidiary Claire Co., Ltd. a beneficial work-life balance. taking childcare leave (male and female 11.1 8.0 acquired certification as a company where total) is 100%. 8.4 persons with disabilities can work actively. 15.7 49 14.5 14.7 13.7 2.62 11.9 11.2 67.1 2.42 2.19 2.20 2.05 11.1 10.8 10.5 10.8 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) ROE (IFRS) (%) ROE (Core basis) (%) R&D expenses (Billions of yen) Dividend per share (¥) Payout ratio (%) R&D expenses to revenue (%) 3 5.0 4 0 0.0 0 0.0 6.1 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) （%） Average monthly overtime hours (Santen Group in Japan) Male employees taking childcare leave *Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and consolidated (Hours/employee/month) (Santen Group in Japan) (Employees) subsidiaries in Japan (as of June of each year) Average days of annual paid leave (Santen Group in Japan) Ratio of male employees taking childcare leave (Days) (Santen Group in Japan) (%) 30 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 31 Our Approach Research and Development Acquisition of Innovation into Ophthalmology Clinical Development Based on Patient Centricity For the innovation in ophthalmology we are facing many One of the key focus areas of Santen is to be transforming challenges. However, I am confident that we can get over ourselves to be the leading entity of people and patient these, because Santen is the global leader in centricity. I believe that at the end of the day our task is help ophthalmology and its long history of addressing the entire to guide patients by providing all the needed information spectrum of patient needs. Our wealth of experience, our and insights related to eye diseases and treatments. visionary leadership, our unparalleled skillset and our In order to achieve that, as a first step we in Product extraordinary vision make Santen uniquely qualified to Development Department (PDD) think we need to build a shepherd new technologies through to approval across method for patients to feel value and ownership not only the globe. And we are confident that we will achieve that after delivering the final product to them, but already as a specialty company in ophthalmology that has been during clinical trials. We think it is important to build a polishing for 130 years. system that allows easier entry and participation in clinical Santen works with various partners in seeking to enable trials without having to go and see the investigator to that change in patient management based on our complete an informed consent or needing to go to the therapeutic area strategy, and will continue to do so hospital for a simple blood draw for successful across the entire spectrum of patient needs. Patients development of the candidates from proof of concept Reza Haque, MD, Ph.D. Peter Sallstig, MD, MBA deserve better, and we should be at the forefront of the (POC) onwards. By utilizing digital technology at all levels, Head of Ophthalmology Innovation Center Corporate Officer conversation about delivering relevant and meaningful we believe we can create a system that allows greater Global Head of Product Development Division benefits to our community. In addition, Santen has built ownership and participation from start. Improving the strong relations with academia around the world as a environment in which patients can easily participate will result of the global expansion promoted under Vision We are also focusing on technologies which exceed improve the success rate of our clinical trials. As we have structural changes in the eye as part of end points 2020. Based on the strong partnership, we are conducting current conventional pharmacotherapy. We will achieve already seen with the recent impact of COVID-19, the shift evaluations, we aim to accelerate and develop products aggressive discussions everyday with RIKEN in Japan, innovation in ophthalmology through an open innovation toward remote clinical trials has begun. The digitalization of to meet the needs of patients as soon as possible. Such Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI), University College in which we combine the strengths of Santen with those clinical trials is therefore expected to accelerate in the kind of technics will be utilized across PDD including London (UCL), and many other universities and specialists, of other companies. By doing so, we will contribute to future. As in real life, having everything at your fingertips will medical affairs. We are on a quest to re-envision as well as startup companies about cutting-edge Happiness with Vision for patients worldwide through the become standard for clinical trials. ophthalmology development, all with the aim of helping treatment technologies such as gene therapy and cell Best Vision Experience. The other point we wish to mention briefly is new end our patients have a happy life through improved vision. therapy, and new therapeutic modalities around the globe. point settings. By searching for new biomarkers and Under the COVID-19 pandemic we are accelerating these incorporating the technology of eg. imaging functional and discussions without borders by remote working. R&D Activities Centered on People Centricity Santen’s R&D activities are centered on “People Centricity.” In order to promote these R&D activities efficiently, Unmet medical needs (UMNs) are the starting point for Santen has established the Ophthalmology Innovation R&D, and the goal is to achieve the Happiest Life for every Center, which is tasked with exploring innovations, and We Can Enhance QOL for Patients Suffering from Various Eye Diseases individual, through the “Best Vision Experience,” going the Product Development Division, which is charged with beyond developing therapies. UMNs vary from region to steadily progressing development projects and developing region and change depending on various factors such as new solutions. Based on our wealth of knowledge and the development of the healthcare environment. To meet experience in eye diseases, we have established an R&D Reaching more Increasing myopia Aging societies in Improving these needs, Santen conducts R&D in a wide range and organization that is global, with operations in Japan, patients to eye care in patients in Asia developed world therapeutic tech for developing world Myopia progression Age-related diseases genetic diseases to varying depths of ophthalmic therapeutic areas. In China, Asia, Europe, and the United States. By integrating Infectious disease Pathological myopia (AMD, glaucoma, etc.) Rare Diseases addition to developing new drugs, we also develop the high-level expertise of Santen in ophthalmology and Chronic illness sustained-release drugs and eye drop containers. As a the cutting-edge technologies that external research (DR/DME, etc.) company specialized in ophthalmology, we believe that it institutions and companies bring to the table, we will is our responsibility to provide a detailed response to efficiently advance the uptake of new innovations toward these needs. the resolution of UMNs in ophthalmology, all made possible through efficient product development. Videos of the message are available on our website. https://www.santen.com/en/rd/ 32 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 33 Our Approach Business Development A New Growth Narrative for Santen Led by Business Development Generating Business Opportunities for As the market becomes increasingly uncertain and The more opportunities we have that transcend the Santen’s Growth complex, with players from other business sectors such as framework of our existing businesses, the greater the IT companies and startups entering the pharmaceutical need for thorough discussion and evaluation of their The objective of Santen’s business development is to industry and new treatments emerging, the importance of potential returns and risks from a variety of perspectives. generate and capitalize on new business opportunities to business development is growing. Through our activities, Based on our mission to help resolve eye-related social realize its CORE PRINCIPLE and WORLD VISION. We will I have a renewed sense of how our total commitment to issues, we give detailed consideration to all possible accomplish this by entering into partnerships to conduct ophthalmology, our high level of recognition among tactics for maximizing returns in terms of contributing to collaborative research, and for licensing and out-licensing ophthalmologists and the positive evaluation of our global ophthalmology and for minimizing risks and volatility products, and investing in venture companies, among business rollout are helping us form new partnerships. When through cooperation with external partners and other other activities. Our focus used to be on expanding our entrusting us with the products, technologies and ideas they methods. We do all this before making our final proposal portfolio of ophthalmic solutions. In recent years, however, have been carefully developing, some of our partners have to management on the advisability of an investment. we have been developing businesses with a broader informed us that Santen is the only company they trust to We will seek out further business opportunities in order to scope, with a view toward new ophthalmological nurture their projects and deliver them to patients. Thus, I accelerate Santen’s growth. treatment fields such as cell therapy, gene therapy, believe that Santen’s responsibility to succeed is substantial. medical devices and digital technology. Another one of Realizing Our New Long-Term Vision Ken Araki our roles is to help the relevant departments get the Supporting Management Decisions to Corporate Officer opportunities we have secured on track within the scope In the future, we will utilize a broad range of innovative Head of Global Business Development Department, Invest in Business Opportunities of the Company’s overall activities. While maintaining our treatment methods and technologies and turn them into Corporate Development Division commitment to eye health, we will identify a broad range There are a variety of needs for eye health around the business opportunities to add to the contribution we make of business opportunities, utilizing technologies and ideas world. Moreover, surgical and optical therapies are through eye drops. Each member involved in business from outside the Company to lead the development of increasingly being used for treatment in addition to development therefore must be more sensitive to business ophthalmology and realize “Happiness with Vision” for pharmaceutical therapy. Resolving vision-related social opportunities and better understand new business models. people worldwide. This is a distinctive feature of Santen’s issues for patients and all people will require stepping up We will continue to promote Santen’s sustainable growth business development. our business development to help expedite advances in and make a greater contribution to patients and society ophthalmology beyond conventional pharmaceutical based on the idea of People Centricity. treatments. Diversification of Santen’s Business Development In addition to developing existing businesses such as in-licensing compounds for ophthalmic solutions, we are expanding into business development utilizing new modalities and digital technology. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Strategic investment in Regenerative Entered into exclusive distributor Entered into exclusive licensing Patch Technologies, LLC agreement with Glaukos Corporation contract with jCyte Inc. Acquisition of InnFocus Establishment of corporate venture Establishment of joint venture with Exclusive license agreement with Business expansion capital fund Verily Life Sciences LLC Osmotica Pharmaceuticals plc Research collaboration agreement Drug discovery and Gene therapy development with with RIKEN to develop retinal development agreement Oxford Biomedica plc Collaboration research disease treatments with PeptiDream Inc. and development Joint sales promotion contract with License agreement with Ono Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Extended co-promotion agreement with Ophthalmic solutions/ Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. Injection fluids Press releases are available on our website. https://www.santen.com/en/news/ 34 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 35 Our Approach Overview by Region Contributing to Eye Health Worldwide Japan Santen conducts business in more than 60 countries around the world with the aims of achieving further global growth in 2030 and beyond and contributing to ophthalmology. The Japan business has strong relationships with ophthalmologists and continues to hold the top share*1 for a wide range of eye diseases. The China and Asia businesses are growing remarkably, our business in the EMEA region addresses diverse needs across national and regional borders, and the North America business has reached the final stage of its preparations to enter the United Broadening Our Perspective to States, which is the world’s largest eye care market. This section introduces our growth so far in each region, our Contribute to Better Eye Health long-term growth goals and our approaches to carrying out our strategies. for Patients, People and Society Takeshi Ito Director, Executive Corporate Officer Head of Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales and Japan Marketing Division North With the aim of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Furthermore, a number of patients are unable to adhere America Company with a Global Presence,” Vision 2020 called on the Japan business to further strengthen its business to dosage instructions, so they fail to see sufficient improvement in their condition. There is still ample room for framework and competitiveness. In prescription ophthalmic us to contribute, and the same applies to other disease pharmaceuticals, our core business, we faced a difficult areas. To deliver appropriate treatments to more patients, environment due to factors including policies promoting we will work together with ophthalmologists and other generics and fundamental reform of the drug pricing system stakeholders in this field to address these issues and in Japan. Nevertheless, over the past decade, our revenues contribute to the development of ophthalmology. China have increased from ¥75.6 billion in fiscal 2010 to ¥148.8 Furthermore, beyond prescription ophthalmic billion in fiscal 2019, and our ophthalmic market share has pharmaceuticals, we intend to accelerate our evolution as grown dramatically from 36% to 49%.*2 During this period, a “solution provider” for a broad range of products and 3 uptake of products such as Eylea,* Diquas and Alesion, solutions that lead to better eye health, including medical together with our activities to provide information on devices, OTC pharmaceuticals, and supplements. optimal administration methods and diagnosis criteria to As the number-one ophthalmic company in Japan, the healthcare providers in ophthalmology and other fields, Japan business will continue its growth and broaden its have contributed to better treatment for patients and the perspective to contribute to better eye health for patients, growth of our business. people and society while optimizing disease prevention, Moving forward, we will pursue further business growth diagnosis and treatment. while focusing on how we can contribute to patients through *1*2 Market share: Copyright © 2020 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on our products and services. Although medical care has made JPM2010.4-2011.3, 2019.04-2020.3. Reprinted with permission. advances in Japan, various issues remain. The treatment of *3 Co-promoted product of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) *4 Yamamoto T, Iwase A, Araie M, Suzuki Y, Abe H, Shirato S, et al. “The glaucoma is one example. One in twenty people in Japan Tajimi Study Report 2: Prevalence of Primary Angle Closure and Secondary Glaucoma in a Japanese Population.” Ophthalmology. Volume 112, Issue over the age of 40 has glaucoma.*4 Because of insufficient EMEA recognition of symptoms, approximately 40% of patients 10, P1661-1169, October 2005. *5 Kashiwagi K et al.: Jpn J Ophthalmol, 58: 68-74. 2014. diagnosed with glaucoma discontinue their treatment within Asia one year,*5 despite the need for extended treatment for this chronic disease. 36 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 37 Our Approach Overview by Region China Asia Adapting to Succeed in Becoming a Total Eye Care China’s Competitive Company That Addresses Environment Asia’s Treatment Needs Takayuki Yamada Isao Takahashi Corporate Officer, Head of China Business Corporate Officer, Head of Asia Business Despite an operating environment characterized by fierce Digital technology and related IT players are bringing Under Vision 2020, in which one of the goals is making and elsewhere to act as instructors and trainers, and competition and various changes in government policies, change to the market. The rapidly changing situation in Santen number one in Asia’s ophthalmic pharmaceuticals providing opportunities for enhancing expertise and skills. the China business has grown to be very successful. This China requires us to make quick decisions and act on market, the Asia business has been proactively We will continue to contribute to the development of success has been driven not only by our products, but them in order to evolve our operations in time to meet the establishing subsidiaries in each country and region of ophthalmology in each country and region. also by the strong commitment of all employees to play a changing demand. Asia and shifting to a direct sales and marketing Over the next decade, we will achieve further growth by part in contributing to the well-being of patients and their To contribute to the eye health of approximately 1.4 organization. By consistently emphasizing the viewpoints taking advantage of our strengths, based on our deep loved ones. In addition, we have been working closely billion people and further advance Chinese ophthalmology, of patients and customers and responding to the diverse understanding of the needs of patients, people and with academia, including ophthalmology societies, to we will stay ahead of social changes and further accelerate needs of each country and region, with a focus on the ophthalmologists in Asia, and the business foundation we introduce numerous measures that contribute to the the provision of products and services with value for areas of glaucoma, dry eye and eye infections, we have have built. To achieve this goal, we will not limit ourselves development of Chinese ophthalmology including the people. Going forward, we are coordinating our efforts to contributed to ophthalmology across Asia. By fiscal 2017, to fields in which we are already strong; we will also support of training and education for ophthalmologists meet and exceed needs and demands of patients, people Santen’s sales representatives had begun sales activities emphasize the development and marketing of products throughout China. close to patients and society through various initiatives in South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, the Philippines, and services that address treatment needs specific to Asia. In adopting the Healthy China 2030 public health plan, such as establishing a second plant in Suzhou (Jiangsu Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. With South Furthermore, as a company specialized in ophthalmology, the Chinese government has made health a centerpiece Province) in response to increasing demand, advancing Korea at the forefront, the Asia business has boasted an we have a mission to bring better treatment to more of all official policy making, meaning health issues must new and innovative new product development programs, annual sales growth rate of over 30% since fiscal 2013. As people in parts of Asia where access to treatment is still also be considered in policies that are not specifically and transforming our commercial model to focus on our of the end of fiscal 2019, we have already almost achieved inadequate. As we look to 2030 and beyond, in contributing health related. Backed by these social factors, the public’s role as a company that steadily provides products, the numerical targets of Vision 2020 for revenues, market to the development of ophthalmology, we will grow this interest in healthcare is increasing year after year, and the information and services that benefit people and have a share of prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, and business and become a total eye care company that 1 Chinese market is expected to continue to grow rapidly. firm scientific and clinical basis. We will continue to mindshare among ophthalmologists.* We are also addresses Asia’s treatment needs as we contribute to the Through various reforms to the health insurance system, introduce various initiatives in the China business to evolve strengthening our sales infrastructure, with measures in growth of the Santen Group as a whole. as well as new policies for introducing innovative products, it as Santen’s leading global business, and to lead the fiscal 2019 that included the start of sales in India and *1 Defined as recognition and evaluation scores of Santen in surveys of more patients will be able to receive better treatment. market as professionals and social innovators. further expansion in Indonesia through a new partnership. ophthalmologists. Furthermore, we are seeing a new trend in the patient In Asia, the level of satisfaction with ophthalmic journey, accelerated by the impact of COVID-19, where treatment varies significantly by country, and there are top-tier hospitals are no longer the only option for regions where there are not enough ophthalmologists. receiving better treatment. Santen has been working to support the development of ophthalmologists by inviting ophthalmologists from Asia 38 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 39 Our Approach Overview by Region North EMEA America Evolving While Retaining Laying the Foundation for Our Unique Strengths Entering the U.S. Market Luis Iglesias Tatsuya Kaihara Corporate Officer, Head of EMEA Business Corporate Officer, Head of North America Business Expansion in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) has acquisition of jCell for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa. Entering North America, the largest ophthalmology market unique to Santen in the field of ophthalmology with the been instrumental in our Vision 2020 mission to become We have established a strong presence in Europe, a in the world, is essential for Santen to achieve the goals hope of creating more opportunities and partnerships in a global leader in ophthalmology. Operating in highly influential region in determining global standards and mission of Vision 2020. While sales in the region are life science and technology. approximately 50 countries in EMEA, our growth in the and regulations for pharmaceuticals and drug limited, at present, Santen’s commitment to significant We will continue to demonstrate and deliver last 10 years is a cumulative result of many achievements. manufacturing. The EMEA business also plays an growth in this important region has never been stronger. differentiated value to grow this market in this new In fiscal 2019 alone, Finland and Norway achieved nearly important part in rolling out this organizational strength to Santen Inc., headquartered in Emeryville, California is decade, and even well into 2030 and beyond. 50% market share in ophthalmology and dry eye and Asia and other regions, contributing to the Santen Group’s the established clinical, research and development and As Santen globally celebrates the 130-year anniversary 1 glaucoma, respectively.* continued global growth. business development epicenter for our business. In since its founding, and introduces our next long-term The EMEA business has continued to conduct activities As the world has changed since the COVID-19 2019, we established a sales team in Canada, and strategy, the North America business continues to act on with the patient’s perspective at the heart. For example, pandemic; we have protected our people and the launched our first product there in November: Verkazia, the potential of our Company’s diverse global pipeline. We glaucoma is a chronic disease that requires long-term community, while adapting the business during these for treatment of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC) will build an infrastructure with strong and responsive treatment. To improve glaucoma treatment adherence uncertain times. We remain committed to delivering high in children. We also look forward to the U.S. market entry organizational and operational capabilities to support and reduce the negative effects of preservatives, we quality medical education. For example, we repurposed of DE-128 (PRESERFLO MicroShunt), a medical device successful regional business goals and make a critical and introduced preservative-free multi-dose formulations of the European Ocular Surface Summit to a virtual meeting for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma. It valuable contribution to Santen’s global success. Great five major brands.*2 In fiscal 2019, the region was also the for 45 ophthalmologists. We are also working with our promises to help prevent the progression of this sightopportunities certainly lie ahead to truly make an impact first to adopt PRESERFLO MicroShunt and stakeholders to understand how the ophthalmology robbing disease. as one team. xact Mono-EDoF intraocular lens, for glaucoma and landscape can adapt during these challenging times. Due to the hard work, dedication and perseverance of cataract procedures. As Santen EMEA evolves, our sole dedication to everyone in this business to meet patient needs, Santen Our portfolio’s success is driven by science and ophthalmology will allow us to continue assessing and North America continues to deepen our understanding of efficacy, which is strengthened by the region’s investment responding to patient needs. unmet needs in vision care each and every day. We are in real-world clinical studies in glaucoma and dry eye. This *1 Copyright © 2020 IQVIA. Santen analysis (excluding retinal diseases) building our portfolio of first-in-class glaucoma assets, in turn is backed by the advanced technologies unique to based on IQVIA MIDAS April 2019-March 2020. Reprinted with Permission. with our goal to be recognized as the preferred choice of *2 Cationorm, Lecrolyn, Cosopt, Taflutan and Saflotan Santen, as well as our approach of People Centricity. healthcare professionals. Our focus for the future will be to build on the success As North America is also home to many start-up of our robust ocular surface portfolio, which includes companies and innovative ideas, we aim to be a “partner Ikervis for dry eye and Verkazia for vernal of choice” for such entities to together help find new keratoconjunctivitis. We are also entering the retina sector ways to contribute to patients. We can leverage qualities through a partnership with jCyte, Inc. and the recent 40 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 41 Sustainability Sustainability CSR Promotion System Environment Santen’s CSR Committee is chaired by the President and CEO and consists of Corporate Officers in charge of relevant The Santen Group has established the Santen Group Guidelines for Environmental Conservation to contribute to the conservation divisions. Based on Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE, the CSR Basic Policy, the Group’s strategies and various social issues, the of a sustainable global environment. We are implementing initiatives to preserve local environments, help prevent global warming, CSR Committee sets CSR-related policies and targets for the entire Group and monitors the progress of CSR activities. enhance the effectiveness of resource use, and conserve biodiversity in all countries and regions in which we operate. In fiscal 2019, we started to identify materialities and formulate our Sustainability Policy (page 23). Our ongoing initiatives will draw on the Sustainability Policy instead of the CSR Basic Policy. The CSR Committee sets targets and manages progress for a total of eight CSR activity items: three CSV-related items Santen Group Guidelines for Environmental Conservation that are unique to Santen, and five items related to measures to support sustainable growth. To contribute to the conservation of 1. Establishing an environmental management system the sustainable global environment 2. Carrying out continuous improvements based on Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE 3. Complying with laws and regulations CSR Committee Members – “Tenki ni sanyo suru” – the Santen 4. Preventing environmental pollution and reducing environmental loads Group devotes positive efforts to (1) Lowering our greenhouse gas emissions Chairman: President (2) Promoting the waste-related initiative of the 3Rs–reduce, reuse preserving local environments, helping Vice-chairman: Officer in charge of CSR and recycle prevent global warming, enhancing the Members: Officer in charge of corporate planning and investor relations; Officer in charge of human resources; (3) Promoting the preservation and efficient use of water resources. Officer in charge of production and quality compliance; Officer in charge of finance and governance effectiveness of resource use, and (4) Preventing air and water pollution and appropriately managing conserving biodiversity in all countries/ chemical substances. regions where it operates. For this (5) Promoting the conservation of biodiversity Meetings are held once every six months, in principle. Meetings are also held when necessary, and progress is reported to the Chairman and purpose, the group promotes the 5. Raising employees’ environmental awareness Vice-chairman on a monthly basis. following initiatives: 6. Disclosing information appropriately CSR Committee Activity Items Activity item Goals for 2020 Environmental Management “CSR through its business Our operational sites in Noto and Shiga and the Suzhou Plant in China have acquired ISO14001 certification, which is an activities” Communication of ideas and model cases will be strengthened, international standard for environmental management systems, and conduct environmental audits. In fiscal 2019, there were 1 Increased propagation inside leading to improved engagement for employees and customers CSR unique to no environmental accidents affecting communities, soil, or groundwater. In addition, the Group committed no legal or and outside the Company Santen through regulatory infractions that required reporting to the authorities. its business Common-to-group onboarding Learning what all Santen Group employees should equally 2 activities program improvement understand when joining the Company Climate Change Countermeasures Contribution to society through It is widely established as a model case for social contribution in 3 sports for the visually impaired Japan, and is expanding overseas. In fiscal 2019, the Santen Group reduced CO2 emissions per unit of revenue on a consolidated basis to 137 tons-CO2 per Effective compliance training is thoroughly implemented as a billion yen, which was 16% lower than in fiscal 2005. Thorough implementation of the 4 group to enable all Santen Group employees to understand and Code of Practice/Compliance act in accordance with the Santen Code of Practice. Reducing Our Environmental Impact and Per Unit of Consolidated Revenue Our Company’s approach to CSR based on international norms is Conservation of Water Resources FY2015 FY2019 Change CSR promotion including shared with our business partners, and the business partners’ 5 CO2 emissions business partners correspondence is confirmed, leading to risk reduction in business In fiscal 2019, final waste disposal volume per unit of revenue 163 137 –16% (Tons-CO2/Billion yen) continuity and the gaining of trust from stakeholders. on a consolidated basis was 0.4 tons per billion yen, double the Volume of waste for final disposal We promote understanding and disclosure of basic Group figure from fiscal 2015 due to the increase in overseas 0.2 0.4 +100% (Tons/Billion yen) actualities such as gender and nationality, and the establishment production volume. Water usage per unit of revenue on a of a diversity policy and Group goals, and as a result of GroupWater usage Initiatives that consolidated basis was 2.43 thousand cubic meters per 2.66 2.43 –9% (Thousand m3/Billion yen) support 6 Promotion of diversity wide efforts, personnel diversity is increasing. billion yen, a decrease of 9% from fiscal 2015. sustainable As a leading company specializing in ophthalmology, we employ growth people with visual impairments and enable many employees to work together. Promotion of environmental Activities are promoted and monitored at all major business sites Topics Launch of Environmentally Friendly Bioplastic Bottles 7 conservation activities within based on the medium-term goals, and the Santen Group as a the Group whole is steadily fulfilling its environmental responsibility. Santen now uses eye-drop bottles made from biomass-plastic materials (“eco-plastics”) that are Recycle/ A Group-wide donation rule is formulated, a system for grasping chemically derived or natural products synthesized from renewable biomass resources. The Incinerate the situation within the Group is established, and corporate carbon content of biomass plastics is derived from carbon dioxide absorbed from the atmosphere Corporate citizenship based on Biomass 8 citizenship activities based on the CORE PRINCIPLE are carried during photosynthesis by the plants that are the raw materials. Therefore, these bottles are plastic CO2 our CORE PRINCIPLE out in all countries and regions where we operate, and information carbon neutral because they do not increase atmospheric carbon dioxide when incinerated, and is also disclosed. they also counter fossil resource depletion because they use sustainable resources. https://www.santen.com/en/csr/policy/index.jsp https://www.santen.com/en/csr/eco/ 42 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 43 Sustainability Sustainability Building an Inclusive Society Inclusion is one of the three long-term strategies we are promoting as we work to achieve our WORLD VISION under the Blind Football Initiatives new long-term vision, Santen 2030. Long-Term Partnerships with the visual impairment-related social issues around the world, International Blind Football Foundation in March 2020 we entered into long-term partnerships Blind Experience and the Japan Blind Football Association extending to fiscal 2030 with the JBFA and the International Santen actively supports the visually impaired to help Blind Football Foundation, which supports international The Santen Group aims to build a society that is inclusive improve their quality of life through sports. In 2017, we competitions. In April 2020, Santen also began supporting to all regardless of visual impairment. As one of our initiatives, entered into a partnership with the Japan Blind Football a hotline set up by the JBFA to assist people with visual we conduct “Blind Experience” sessions inside and outside Association (JBFA), and sponsored our first international impairment’s inconveniences in their daily life during the the Group, where visually impaired employees give lectures competition in 2019. With the aim of helping to resolve COVID-19 outbreak. to help attendees deepen their understanding of visual impairments and to teach them about the importance of ©JBFA communication. Outside the Group, we conduct Blind Experience sessions targeting people from a wide range of Event at an elementary school age groups affiliated with various organizations, including government bodies, educational institutions and companies. When conducted at educational institutions, Blind Experience sessions have resulted in changes in the behavior of the participating children. Although the children seemed to hesitate at first because they did not know how to interact with the visually impaired lecturers, after the classes finished, they approached the lecturers on their own and volunteered ©JBFA/H.Wanibe ©JBFA/H.Wanibe to assist the lecturers in getting around. For Blind Experience Japanese team at the IBSA Blind Football Asia Championships Press conference for the Santen ISBA Blind Football WGP 2020 in Shinagawa sessions conducted inside the Group, many participating Event at Santen Inc. (U.S.) employees have commented that the sessions have helped them reaffirm Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE and better understand patients’ viewpoints. Blind Football Kids Camp/Junior Training Camp These events are also an opportunity to bring together Through our partnership, we cooperate with the JBFA in the parents or guardians of the children who attend. supporting children with visual impairments. Our support Because they face the same difficulties and worries in Interviews with Visually Impaired Employees Who Act as Blind Experience Lecturers covers activities including Blind Football Kids Camp, raising their children, the events are a forum for sharing their Toward the Society We Want to Help Achieve which helps children with visual disabilities become more concerns. The events are also an opportunity to reaffirm independent by giving them the chance to play without their Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE. One employee commented We spoke with visually impaired Santen employees who act as Blind Experience lecturers parents or guardians, and Junior Training Camp, which that “I was able to gain a renewed understanding of Learning from Blind Experience aims to train and strengthen the next generation of blind Santen’s philosophy and social responsibility as a company Yoshihara: I realize that there are many people who hesitate to act when they come into football players at an early stage and foster leadership. involved in eye health.” contact with a visually impaired person. We let them know the importance of approaching visually impaired people. I tell participants that they should approach a visually impaired person when they see them having trouble. Since visually impaired people themselves are well versed in support techniques, if you ask them what to do, they will know specific ways to resolve the situation. Shigeo Yoshihara CSR Group, Corporate The Value Blind Experience Can Provide Development Division Torii: I feel that actively communicating the many things that can be done without sight and the unique ingenuity involved in that surprises participants and leads them to a new understanding. Treating sightlessness as just another aspect of someone’s individuality gives rise to new discoveries and learning. ©JBFA What Kind of Society Do You Want to Create? Group photo from the Santen Blind Football Kids Camp in Western Japan Pre-match huddle at the Junior Training Camp Yoshihara: I suppose I want a society in which visually impaired people can fully participate and lead vibrant lives with peace of mind. I think that creating such a society fosters a https://www.santen.com/en/csr/social/ consciousness of helping others. Torii: I would like to create a society where the concept of disability is no longer relevant and Kento Torii CSR Group, Corporate people help each other. That way, everyone can lead a happy life. That is why I think visually Development Division impaired people like us need opportunities to communicate and share information. 44 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 45 Sustainability Sustainability Diversity and Inclusion Promoting Diversity (Gender, Nationality, Race) Promoting Childcare Leave for Male Employees The gender gap is an issue in promoting diversity in Japan. We are implementing initiatives such as promoting women, and we must change the awareness and behavior of men as well. Japanese companies have typically generated business the peak of their performance. We are therefore One way to change awareness is to increase growth through the efforts of the majority—long-tenured enhancing the diversity of our human resources by participation in childcare. In fiscal 2019, Santen focused male employees. However, that era is changing promoting diversity and inclusion to help all our talent Daisuke Kosugi, IR Group, Corporate Development Division: Took about one on male employees in promoting childcare leave. The month combined with paid leave significantly due to globalization, a declining birthrate play active roles. Diversity and inclusion is a necessity, percentage of male employees who took childcare leave and aging population, and increasing mobility of human not an option. was 6% in fiscal 2018, and 67% in fiscal 2019. The resources, among other factors. Companies that cling We will combine our diverse strengths as a company President himself is the father of two children, and took to traditional approaches face an existential threat. specialized in ophthalmology to continue to deliver the initiative in taking childcare leave in fiscal 2018. The Santen has about 4,000 employees globally, with “Happiness with Vision” to people. percentage of employees taking childcare leave increased about 2,000 in Japan, which is not a large number for significantly in fiscal 2019. We will continue to strengthen its industry. We cannot make substantial progress as a our initiatives to encourage male employees to take company with a global presence unless all of our talent Shigeo Taniuchi childcare leave. are able to participate actively in business operations at President and Chief Executive Officer Percentage of Male Employees The President holding his second son while telecommuting: Took two weeks childcare leave in fiscal 2018 Taking Childcare Leave Santen Group Diversity & Inclusion Policy Delivering “Happiness with Vision” to people by orchestrating diverse talents Based on our CORE PRINCIPLE, the Santen Group actively aims to incorporate diverse views inside and outside the Group to demonstrate its organizational excellence, meet the diverse eye-related needs of people around the world, and ultimately 67 % (Japan) deliver people’s “Happiness with Vision.” For that purpose, we are committed to uphold, respect and accept individuals with diverse backgrounds in terms of nationality, race, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, disability, religious faith, creed, experience, specialty, values, lifestyle, and others. Our aim is to create a workplace environment that ensures psychological safety so that every employee can feel safe to be themselves and fully exercise his or her capabilities and translate the diverse talents into organizational excellence to accomplish the greatest results. Takanori Shoji, Product Development Division: Took more than four months off in combination with paid leave for the first time for his third child Three pillars of diversity and inclusion (D&I) The Santen Group will promote D&I initiatives on the pillars of (1) Favorable Organization Culture Development, (2) Knowledge and Skill Improvement, and (3) System Development and Implementation. We believe that the synergetic effects of the three Promoting Diversity Ratio of Women in Management Positions pillars will enable us to orchestrate the capabilities of diverse individuals into our organizational prowess to the maximum. At the end of fiscal 2019, the ratio of female employees Favorable Organization Culture Development We aim to create an organizational climate and culture in which every individual can exercise his or her capabilities to was 41% (consolidated), and the ratio of women in management positions was 13% in Japan and 33% globally. We need to continue enhancing gender initiatives in Japan. 13 33 (Japan) % (Global) % the fullest and where diverse talent inside and outside the company is sought after and nurtured. With the globalization of our business, the ratio of overseas employees is 51%. We are promoting foreign Knowledge and Skill Improvement nationals at the management level, and the ratio of foreign Ratio of Foreign Nationals among nationals among corporate officers is 23%. Corporate Officers We encourage and support every individual to acquire wisdom and improve their knowledge and skills in order to maximize our organizational excellence through collaboration and cooperation while taking advantage of the diverse characteristics of employees. System Development and Implementation We establish a flexible work management system that supports diverse work styles and preferences. 23 % 46 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 47 Corporate Governance Chairman’s Message In 2020, under a new governance structure, Santen is moving forward to Fiscal 2020 is the 130th anniversary of Santen’s founding, discussions. For example, an investment project, which achieve its new long-term vision. In a drastically changing world, Santen as well as the final year of Vision 2020. As our next step was ultimately rejected after several Board discussions, forward, in July we announced a new long-term vision stands out in my mind. I had proposed the project as will keep abreast of the times, flexibly transforming its management as it toward 2030 and beyond. CEO, so my feelings about it were complicated, but I was remains true to its CORE PRINCIPLE. While increasing the effectiveness As of April 1, 2020, my position as Chairman of the strongly heartened by the Board’s ability to discuss the of the Board of Directors and further enhancing governance, we will Board of Directors became my sole responsibility. The matter objectively from various perspectives. I recall the continue to contribute to people around the world in the field of new era, both in name and reality, has been entrusted to discussions being extremely heated, but I think the decision the new CEO, Shigeo Taniuchi. I look forward to seeing was indeed correct. ophthalmology to increase corporate value. his leadership foster significant growth for the Company. In order to prevent the Board’s functions from being Looking back over the past 10 years, Santen has reduced to a formality, it is vital to share the business significantly grown its business centered on prescription information used as the basis of discussion. In particular, ophthalmic pharmaceuticals. On the other hand, over the Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors need a next 10 years, in order to further contribute to the world in continuous supply of information to properly understand the field of ophthalmology, we must take on the challenge changes in the business environment, the status of of entering new areas such as medical devices and digital business execution, and Santen’s capabilities. Santen’s healthcare, in addition to our conventional ophthalmic Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors solutions business. I would like Mr. Taniuchi, our new exchange opinions with global executives to deepen their CEO, to nurture Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE, share our understanding of its business, and participate in vision with all employees, and make major changes to discussions as much as possible as observers in the achieve sustainable long-term growth. Corporate Management Meeting, which is the Company’s As the Chairman of the Board of Directors, I would like primary executive decision-making body. This approach to touch upon the future operation of the Board. In order enables Outside Directors to properly evaluate Corporate for a company to be widely trusted and increase its Officers based on a proper understanding of management corporate value, it must keep in mind that it conducts its issues and projects within the context of our vision and business activities through connections with many medium-term plan and active participation in management stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, decision-making. employees and local communities, and therefore must Under CEO Taniuchi, we have formulated Santen 2030, ensure the objectivity and transparency of its board of a vision toward 2030 and beyond, and are further directors. Santen has traditionally called on multiple enhancing our lineup of products and services that benefit Outside Directors to represent its stakeholders. They have patients in the field of ophthalmology to achieve this vision. provided the Board with unreserved opinions in various Akira Kurokawa Chairman 48 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 49 A Conversation between the Chairman Chairman’s Message and an Outside Director While taking advantage of the strengths of our core In this rapidly changing business environment, Santen business, we are poised to contribute further to must stay ahead of the times and transform its approach ophthalmology by incorporating cell therapy and device to management and execution while staying true to its technologies, making proposals for new treatments, and CORE PRINCIPLE. To further increase corporate value, implementing initiatives that incorporate digital the Board of Directors must take the lead in leveraging technologies in the field of diagnostics. In addition, we are both internal and external knowledge to further enhance reassessing our internal organization in line with the management and governance and increase flexibility. The ongoing globalization of our business, and strengthening current Board is composed of members with extensive our worldwide system for execution and operations. At the management experience, knowledge and expertise. A same time, we are partnering with other companies as we board of directors that adds value by energetically advance to a new stage as a truly global company. discussing a growing array of projects is the ideal we are Looking at the external environment, the world is aiming for, so we will continue to seek members who can undergoing a drastic transformation due to COVID-19. do so, regardless of their nationality or gender. The economic impact is expected to be comparable to Santen will further improve management quality and the situation after World War II. This pandemic will change enhance governance to continue contributing to people people’s lifestyles, significantly alter the healthcare worldwide as a company specialized in ophthalmology. environment, and further accelerate the evolution and widespread use of digital and information technologies. Akira Kurokawa Yutaro Shintaku Chairman Outside Director Santen’s Governance Shintaku: As always, I believe that in order to raise the Shintaku: I became an Outside Director three years ago, effectiveness of governance, the Board of Directors must and at the beginning, I was amazed at how openly and be able to speak openly and discuss matters unreservedly. sincerely Santen implemented essential governance. CEO Santen maintains an atmosphere in which members of the succession was under consideration at that time, and the Board can speak about any issue without hesitation. Future process was very open and transparent. Through my challenges will make management even more difficult. involvement in the process in which the Nominating The more serious the matter, the more open and vigorous Committee identified candidates and set a clear schedule debate helps Santen to evolve. It is also of great for making the decision, I quickly grasped that Santen importance for governance. implements essential governance. Kurokawa: I remember that as well. Succession is an Future Direction of the important matter for shareholders and other stakeholders Nominating Committee and because of its relevance to increasing corporate value, Executive Compensation Committee and I also thought full discussion was necessary before proceeding. In fact, the Nominating Committee had been Shintaku: Having served as chairperson of the Nominating considering and discussing the training and selection of Committee and the Executive Compensation Committee successors for some time. I was selected through the since last year, I would like to touch on both of them. First, same process when I myself became President, and I as I just mentioned, the Nominating Committee has wanted Santen to continue using this open process. completed a major succession. The next challenge is to 50 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 51 Corporate Governance A Conversation between the Chairman and an Outside Director enhance the successor training program. A key issue is Santen’s Long-Term Vision Kurokawa: You have provided Santen with much international changes associated with the COVID-19 nurturing diverse candidates in anticipation of smooth invaluable advice and knowledge about medical devices outbreak that are unfolding before our very eyes. In order successions five to ten years in the future. Shintaku: Santen has been expanding its business in the over the last few years. As you said, entering the device for the Board of Directors to make appropriate decisions Meanwhile, the Executive Compensation Committee is field of ophthalmology. Considering the significance of business and entering the U.S. market are big challenges from the perspective of shareholders, customers, society, benchmarking every year while discussing how to achieve participating in the medical device business, as for us. Executives therefore need to appropriately report employees, and other stakeholders, executives also need compensation standards that make the Company represented by PRESERFLO MicroShunt, it must also progress and strategies to the Board of Directors. Based to effectively communicate market changes and competitive. Compensation needs to be structured with structure relevant strategies. Entering this business will on that, the Board should proceed with discussions that technological evolution in ophthalmology and other fair incentives that are in the common interest of both strengthen Santen’s partnership with medical include consideration of risks. Strengthening the relevant information about the business environment to investors and management. To this end, we will consider professionals, and expanding its presence in the United monitoring system will become more important than ever, the Board. increasing the ratio of performance-linked compensation, States, the world’s largest ophthalmology market, will given various factors such as changes in the competitive and will also consider implementing a compensation expand its global presence in the field of ophthalmology. environment and regulations. We need to further enhance Shintaku: I agree. With the social environment and system that gives the Company global competitiveness. The manufacturing involved in the medical device Board discussions by refining the quality of proposals business environment changing so significantly, we will business, however, sets it apart from the ophthalmic from executives and establishing a framework that need to devise growth strategies from different perspectives Kurokawa: The Nominating Committee trains the next solutions business, in which Santen is strong. In other enables appropriate monitoring. than in the past. To achieve this, Outside Directors must CEO, but another of its primary roles from the standpoint words, after product launch, product improvement and deepen strategic discussion while obtaining appropriate of corporate governance is to make decisions about the pipeline development are keys to competitiveness in the input from executives and digesting this information. actual appointment or dismissal of the CEO. Outside device business. Santen would be wise to use the COVID-19 Has Significantly Changed Directors give their opinions frankly from an outside sophisticated technological base in container development the World Kurokawa: Indeed. We plan to make effective use of perspective, which creates healthy tension. Operation of that it has developed as an ophthalmic solutions —Santen’s Governance Going Forward— meetings other than those of the Board of Directors to the Executive Compensation Committee has improved manufacturer to build the medical device business. This further enhance the Board’s effectiveness, so we are since you became the chairperson. Long-term incentives will be challenging, so I would like executives to Kurokawa: I think that the quality and subject matter of counting on your frank opinions. will comprise a greater proportion of executive implement strategic initiatives with the solid backing of Board discussions will change in line with the dramatic compensation going forward. Having discussions in the Board of Directors. advance will be necessary, with a clear understanding of future directions. 52 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 53 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Overview of the Corporate Governance System Status of Corporate Governance Structure bears the necessary expenses in this regard. In addition, Santen’s Board of Directors features a well-balanced mix of in order to contribute to meaningful discussions at Board knowledge and experience, and the ability to effectively fulfill of Directors meetings, Outside Director and Outside Basic Views on Corporate Governance its roles and responsibilities with a structure that satisfies Corporate Auditors are provided with materials and related Santen believes that upgrading and strengthening the corporate governance system is vital for securing and enhancing both diversity and an appropriate number of members as information and are given sufficient explanations in advance corporate value, and thus, returns to shareholders. defined in Japan’s Companies Act and Santen’s Articles of regarding the background, purpose, and content of the Santen’s governance is based on the corporate organizational form of a “Company with Board of Corporate Auditors” Incorporation. Moreover, Santen has appointed Corporate proposals to be deliberated. as defined in Japan’s Companies Act. This structure enables the Company to have objective audits by Corporate Auditors with the expertise necessary to properly perform Corporate Auditors fulfill their roles and responsibilities Auditors who are in independent positions from the execution of business by the Directors. Furthermore, to secure audits from an academic, legal and accounting perspective. by attending meetings of the Board of Directors, holding transparency, objectivity and appropriateness of management, Santen believes that making the most of systems such as Furthermore, Santen has established the Corporate meetings to exchange opinions with Representative voluntary committees on business strategy, nomination of officers, executive compensation and other matters will Strategy Committee, Nominating Committee and Executive Directors and Outside Directors, and conducting interviews contribute to the strengthening of the current corporate governance system. As a material management matter, Santen commits to continuously reviewing the strengthening of said system. Compensation Committee, which are voluntary committees with and visits to executives and Group companies in (formed voluntarily by the Company) composed of Inside Japan and overseas. and Outside Directors, with the aim of improving The average attendance rate for Outside Directors and Santen Internal Governance System (As of June 30, 2020) management transparency and objectivity. Outside Corporate Auditors at meetings of the Board of General Meeting of Shareholders Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors are Directors in fiscal 2019 was 100%. The average attendance provided with the information and opportunities necessary rate for Outside Corporate Auditors at meetings of the Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal to fulfill their roles and responsibilities, and the Company Board of Corporate Auditors was 100%. Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditor 4 Corporate Auditors Audit 6 Directors (including 3 Outside Directors) (including 3 Outside Corporate Auditors) Corporate Governance Meeting Composition (As of June 30, 2020) : Chairpersons of voluntary committees Judge Appropriateness of Accounting Audit Board of Corporate Corporate Strategy Nominating Executive Compensation Position Name Board of Directors Report (Cooperation) 1 Auditors Committee Committee Committee Corporate Strategy Committee* Accounting Cooperation Audit Cooperation Appointment / Removal Recommendation Audit Akira Kurokawa Supervision Nominating Committee*1 Executive Compensation Committee*1 Shigeo Taniuchi Takeshi Ito Directors Internal Control and General Representative Director, Chairman Kanoko Oishi Outside Director Affairs Group Representative Director, President & CEO CSR Committee Cooperation Yutaro Shintaku Outside Director Compliance Committee Internal Auditing Group Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director Risk Management Committee Audit Divisions and Subsidiaries Hiroshi Isaka Yasuyuki Miyasaka Outside Corporate Auditor *1 These committes are voluntary and not part of the statutory “Company with a Nominating Committee, etc., System” under Japan’s Companies Act. Corporate Auditors Hirofumi Yasuhara Outside Corporate Auditor Yumiko Ito Outside Corporate Auditor Key Milestones in Strengthening Corporate Governance 1990 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Meetings (April 2019 – March 2020) 14 times 10 times 4 times 5 times 7 times • Long-term vision formulated • Long-term vision formulated Long-term vision formulated • Management Plan Medium-Term Plan FY2003-2005 FY2006-2010 FY2011-2013 FY2014-2017 FY2018-2020 Corporate Strategy Committee Deliberates on key strategic issues such as business strategies Strengthen Outside Deliberates and makes recommendations regarding the selection of candidates for management From 2003: 1, From 2005: 3 Directors supervision Nominating Committee Directors, and provides advice in response to consultations concerning the selection Corporate officer of candidates for Corporate Officers and Corporate Auditors Strengthen Introduced in 1999 system decision-making and business Corporate Strategy Management Advisory Committee Sets compensation policies and designs the compensation system (such as setting execution functions Corporate Strategy Committee established in 2005 Committee established in 1999 Executive Compensation performance targets and determining the rationality of performance-based Committee compensation, the appropriateness of standards and composition of remuneration, Nominating Outside Director appointed Strengthen Established in 2005 as chairperson in 2019 and the amount of compensation in accordance with the system) Committee management transparency and Executive soundness Compensation Committee Outside Director appointed Compensation established in 1999 Executive Compensation Committee established in 2003 as chairperson in 2019 Committee 54 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 55 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Policy for Appointing Directors and The Nominating Committee also discusses the Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation and stock-linked compensation. Total standard Corporate Auditors recommendation of candidates for the position of compensation consists of basic compensation, annual The Nominating Committee deliberates on candidates for Corporate Auditor. The Board of Directors determines Santen is not a “Company with a Nominating Committee, bonus and stock-linked compensation at a ratio of the position of Director. Based on the results of actual nominees after obtaining consent from the Board of etc.,” as defined in Japan’s Companies Act. However, it 1:0.25:0.5, and total compensation is determined with deliberations, the committee then recommends Corporate Auditors. Upon consent of Corporate Auditors, has set up an Executive Compensation Committee as one reference to pharmaceutical company benchmarks. candidates to the Board of Directors, which determines the guiding principles used for judgement are that each of its voluntary committees. This committee, which appoints Outside Directors, who are independent from the execution the actual nominees. In deliberations by the Nominating nominee must have credentials such as high ethical an Outside Director as chairperson and consists of a of business, only receive fixed monthly compensation, Committee, the guiding principle for the selection of Inside standards and a sense of fairness, in addition to an majority of Outside Directors, makes recommendations and with additional consideration for Outside Directors who Directors is that the nominees must have credentials such understanding of Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE and its deliberates on policies for the compensation received by serve as chairperson of a voluntary committee, including as high-level expertise, the ability to participate in underlying ethos, while being experienced in performing Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Corporate Officers. the Executive Compensation Committee. decision-making from a managerial standpoint and the high-level duties in any field. For Outside Corporate The Executive Compensation Committee has determined Compensation for Corporate Auditors consists only of ability to supervise execution of duties, in addition to Auditors, each nominee must have credentials such as the following basic policies. fixed monthly compensation, and is determined through having an understanding of Santen’s CORE PRINCIPLE extensive experience and expertise in the field of discussions by the Corporate Auditors, with reference to 1. Ensure effectiveness that contributes to Santen’s sustainable and its underlying ethos. Furthermore, Outside Directors academics, law, accounting or management. Outside pharmaceutical company benchmarks and in accordance growth and enhancement of mid-and-long term corporate must have credentials such as the ability to contribute to Corporate Auditors must also satisfy the criteria for value to enable them to be engaged in the achievement of with recommendations from the Executive Compensation improving the quality of discussions in meetings of the independence established by the Company. Santen’s vision and the medium-term management plan with Committee. Corporate Auditors do not receive performanceBoard of Directors, based on experience in managing high motivation; linked compensation because the Company wants them to companies or a specialized understanding of corporate 2. Deepen the sharing of values with shareholders; appropriately exercise their auditing functions. management. They must also satisfy the criteria for 3. Objectiveness is secured through a highly transparent The Company’s Executive Compensation Committee independence established by the Company. process for making decisions on remunerations to ensure employs an external compensation consulting company, high accountability to stakeholders; Willis Towers Watson, as an advisor, using this company’s 4. Provide a competitive level of compensation capable of management compensation data offerings each year to Reasons for Outside Director and Outside Corporate Auditor Appointments recruiting outstanding human resources; and benchmark compensation with industry peers of similar Position Name Reasons for Appointment 5. Appropriately encourage the target Directors to fulfill their size in similar businesses to verify that the Company’s Ms. Oishi has extensive knowledge and experience from involvement in management in respective functions in executing duties and supervising. Kanoko Oishi standard executive compensation and proportions of Japan and overseas for many years. Director compensation (excluding Outside Directors) performance-linked compensation are appropriate. The Mr. Shintaku has extensive knowledge and experience from involvement in management in consists of fixed basic compensation, an annual bonus Committee also draws on other Willis Towers Watson Outside Yutaro Shintaku Japan and overseas for many years, including management of a major company that tied to Company performance and individual evaluation, data as needed for appropriate deliberation. Director manufactures and distributes medical devices and pharmaceutical products. Mr. Minakawa has extensive knowledge and global experience from many years of Fixed Compensation Short-Term Incentives Medium-to-Long-Term Incentives Kunihito Minakawa management in Japan and overseas, as well as extensive insight and practical expertise in Performance Share finance and auditing. Basic compensation Annual bonus Restricted Stock (RS)*2 Unit (PSU)*1 Mr. Miyasaka has extensive knowledge and experience as a certified public accountant from Directors Yasuyuki Miyasaka many years of conducting audits in Japan and overseas. (Excluding Outside Directors) Outside Mr. Yasuhara has extensive knowledge and experience from many years of involvement in Outside Directors — — — Corporate Hirofumi Yasuhara management in Japan and overseas, and has performed auditing duties as a standing Auditor corporate auditor at a company listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Corporate Auditors — — — Ms. Ito is a legal expert qualified as an attorney-at-law in Japan and the United States, and has *1. Units granted to plan participarts are adjusted on a scale of 0% to 200% according to achievement of the three-year targets of MTP2020 (fiscal 2018 through Yumiko Ito fiscal 2020) for revenue growth rate (annualized), core operating profit margin (three-year average), and full ROE (three-year average). Shares will be issued in a extensive knowledge and experience in management as an officer of several global companies. single block after the evaluation period has ended. *2. A system in which restricted shares are issued each fiscal year. Transfer restrictions are lifted three years from issuance when conditions such as service for a specified term of office have been satisfied. Succession Plans for the CEO and In deciding a successor, the Nominating Committee Other Executives sets the evaluation parameters and the selection method, Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation (FY2019) Santen’s Representative Directors recognize that the and after discussions of whether candidates (including Total Compensation (Millions of yen) Total development of successors for the CEO and other executive those from outside the Company) have appropriate Number of Position Compensation Fixed Eligible People positions is a crucial responsibility, and systematically qualities and achievements, the succession plan is decided (Millions of yen) Annual bonus PSU RS compensation promote the identification, selection and development of and recommended to the Board of Directors. The Board Directors 311 219 51 13 28 3 candidates. The Nominating Committee, which is chaired of Directors supervises to ensure that the succession plan (Excluding Outside Directors) by an Outside Director and consists of a majority of process is proceeding properly, discusses the plan Corporate Auditors 28 28 — — — 1 (Excluding Outside Corporate Auditors) Outside Directors, advises and supervises the development prepared by the Nominating Committee, and determines and implementation of the successor training plan. the successor. Outside Directors 46 46 — — — 3 Outside Corporate Auditors 38 38 — — — 5 56 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 57 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Analysis and Evaluation of the Board of results of previous evaluations have contributed to Board Risk Management such as new strains of influenza. It then identifies risks that Directors’ Effectiveness effectiveness. Examples of enhancements include Santen regularly collects information during normal may hinder the supply of pharmaceuticals, implements the distribution of reference materials prior to Board meetings circumstances in accordance with its crisis management risk prevention and mitigation measures that it can in For the purpose of further enhancing the roles and and by electronic means, achievement of systematic regulations. If an incident that could become a major crisis advance, and formulates and continuously reviews BCPs functions of the Board of Directors, Santen conducts deliberations through advance scheduling of agenda items occurs or is reported, a Crisis Management Committee that enable effective response in emergencies. In addition, questionnaire surveys of Directors and Corporate Auditors to be discussed over the year, opportunities for Outside chaired by the Company’s President and CEO is established based on the Company’s response to the COVID-19 and individual interviews of Outside Directors and Outside Directors to participate in important executive meetings, to minimize loss and damage and ensure quick recovery, outbreak and the challenges that have emerged, the Corporate Auditors from the fundamental perspectives of and thorough advance explanation for agenda items as as well as institute measures to prevent recurrence. Company has considered a hypothetical scenario in which the Board’s management decision-making and necessary. the pandemic worsens and is prolonged. With the supervision functions, and the support system for Outside At the same time, Santen discussed the need for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) resilience of operations in mind, the Company is Directors. Based on the results of this survey and these ongoing initiatives that enhance the quality of the Board’s In order to ensure a stable supply of pharmaceuticals, promoting the establishment of new BCPs that include interviews, the Company annually evaluates and works to decision-making and strengthen its supervisory function in Santen considers the scope of risks that could have a stable supply of pharmaceuticals, maintaining innovation enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board. order to further increase its effectiveness. We confirmed major impact on business continuity, including natural and quality control, and ensuring employee safety. Santen has evaluated its Board of Directors as effective the following specific issues and areas for improvement. disasters, man-made disasters and infectious diseases in fiscal 2019. Ongoing enhancements based on the Topics FY2019 Evaluation Results Issues and Initiatives Going Forward Santen’s Approach to COVID-19 • Ensure safety at plants • The composition of Directors is well balanced. • Enhancement of the quality of important strategic Initiatives for stable • Maintain inventories including • There is a well-established corporate culture in which discussions Given the global COVID-19 outbreak, Santen is product supply pharmaceutical intermediates and raw the opinions of Outside Directors were accepted and Enhance collaboration between the Corporate Strategy implementing the measures shown at right globally, materials for products constructive, free and open exchange of opinions Committee and the Board of Directors to improve the based on its CORE PRINCIPLE (as of May 2020). In addition, the Company has established guidelines • As a general rule, Santen group employees could take place. organic connection between their discussions in office work from home, and all • Strengthening of the monitoring of important for matters such as ensuring the safety of office Initiatives for • Information is proactively and appropriately provided employees limit the domestic and overseas Board resolutions personnel in line with the relaxation of lockdowns and preventing the business travels to Outside Directors. Upgrade guidelines for selecting issues to be the gradual resumption of economic activities in each spread of the virus • Provide supplies such as masks and monitored and for the implementation of monitoring country it serves, and continues its efforts to establish goggles to employees worldwide new ways of working. • Strengthening of the monitoring of the internal Initiatives for • Ensure safety and consult with authorities control system innovation in to continue ongoing development work Maintain regular reporting on the overall internal ophthalmology • Ensure safety at R&D facilities control system Note: For details about corporate governance, please refer to the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance and the Corporate Governance Report on the Company compliance officer for each region under the Chief https://www.santen.com/ Internal Control System Compliance Officer to foster employee awareness of Development of the Internal Control System compliance and ensure compliance with laws and In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the regulations through activities such as thoroughly Ordinance of Enforcement of the Companies Act, Santen communicating and inculcating global compliance policies has passed a resolution regarding the development of a and providing regular compliance training for all employees. system to ensure appropriate operations (Basic Policy on Santen has made it easier for all employees, including Internal Control). The operating divisions regularly report contract workers and temporary workers, to consult and on the status of the development and implementation of report on suspicious actions related to compliance by the system to the Board of Directors, while the Board gives establishing internal consulting and reporting desks that instructions and makes course corrections as necessary, respond in various languages in its operating countries in order to qualitatively enhance the development and and regional bases. Additionally, Santen has established implementation of the internal control system and expand external helplines through external third-parties such as its scope. lawyers that receive reports in the regions it serves worldwide. Incoming consultations and reports are Compliance appropriately investigated and addressed in a sincere Santen has established the Compliance Committee manner, while also being relayed to levels of management consisting of officers in charge of each region and functional regularly. The Compliance Rules that are applied to all organization to promote and strengthen compliance Group companies stipulate that there must be adequate throughout the Group. In addition, in order to promote measures in place to protect internal whistleblowers in activities more effectively, the Company has assigned a each region. 58 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 59 Directors, Corporate Auditors and Corporate Governance Corporate Officers (As of August 2020) Directors Corporate Officers (Not including directors who also serve as corporate officers) 5 3 1 2 4 6 Kazuo Koshiji Akio Kimura Satoshi Suzuki Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer 1 Akira Kurokawa 2 Shigeo Taniuchi 3 Takeshi Ito Corporate Administration Global Product Supply Head of Corporate Representative Director Representative Director Director, Executive Corporate Officer Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Development Division Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Head of Japan Business Head of Finance and 1977 Joined the Company 1996 Joined the Company Head of Japan Sales and Marketing Division Administration Division 1997 Director, General Manager, Head of the Office of 2015 Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Europe (currently 1982 Joined the Company Sales and Marketing Division, Prescription EMEA), and President of Santen Holdings EU B.V. 2012 Corporate Officer, Head of Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2016 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Europe Pharmaceuticals Sales Department, Sales & 2001 Corporate Officer, Head of Sales and Marketing (currently EMEA), and President of Santen Holdings Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals EU B.V. 2014 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Japan Sales & 2004 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Sales and 2017 Director, Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals EMEA, and President of Santen Holdings EU B.V. 2016 Executive Corporate Officer, Japan Business, Head 2006 Representative Director, President & COO 2018 Representative Director, President & COO of Japan Sales & Marketing Division, Prescription 2008 Representative Director, President & CEO 2020 Representative Director, President & CEO Pharmaceuticals 2018 Representative Director, Chairman & CEO (incumbent) 2017 Director, Executive Corporate Officer, Japan 2020 Representative Director, Chairman (incumbent) Business, Head of Japan Sales and Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2019 Director, Executive Corporate Officer, Head of Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales & Marketing Division (incumbent) 4 Kanoko Oishi 5 Yutaro Shintaku 6 Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Kenji Morishima Takahiro Morita Frank Binder Luis Iglesias 1993 Partner, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 2010 Representative Director, President and CEO of 2010 Corporate Vice President, and General Manager of Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer 2000 Established Mediva, Inc. Terumo Corporation Finance and Accounting Division, Ricoh Company, Ltd. China R&D Supervisor Head of Marketing Department, Head of Supply Chain Division Head of EMEA Business Representative Director (incumbent) 2017 Corporate Advisor of Terumo Corporation 2010 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Ricoh Leasing Company, Ltd. Japan Sales and Marketing Division 2000 Established Seinan Mediva Co., Ltd. (currently Seeds 2017 External Director of J-Oil Mills Inc. (incumbent) 1 Co., Ltd.); Representative Director (incumbent) 2017 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Ricoh 2004 Established Platanus Medical Corporation; COO 2018 Outside Director of Kubota Corporation (incumbent) Company, Ltd. (incumbent) 2018 Visiting Professor, Business Administration, 2017 Outside Director of Sony Corporation 2010 Outside Director of Astellas Pharma Inc. Hitotsubashi University Business School 2018 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2015 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2019 Project Professor, Business Administration, 2019 Commissioner of the Certified Public Accountants 2015 External Board Member of Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd. Hitotsubashi University Business School and Auditing Oversight Board, Financial Services (incumbent) (incumbent) Agency (incumbent) 2015 Outside Director of Suruga Bank Ltd. 2019 Outside Director of KOZO KEIKAKU ENGINEERING 2020 External Director of Nippon Sheet Glass Company, Inc. (incumbent) Limited (incumbent) 2016 External Director of Shiseido Company, Limited (incumbent) Corporate Auditors Ken Araki Isao Takahashi Minori Hara Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Head of Global Business Head of Asia Business Chief Information Officer (CIO) Development Department, Head of Information Systems Division Corporate Development Division 9 7 8 10 7 Hiroshi Isaka 8 Yasuyuki Miyasaka 9 Hirofumi Yasuhara 10 Yumiko Ito Standing Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor 2010 Joined the Company 2010 Director of Risk Management and 2008 Director, PanaHome Corporation (currently 2007 Executive Officer, Legal & Corporate 2012 Head of Corporate Quality Assurance Office of IFRS Panasonic Homes Co., Ltd.) Affairs, Microsoft Co., Ltd. (currently Development Division Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC 2012 Representative Director, PanaHome Corporation Microsoft Japan Co., Ltd.) 2013 Deputy Head of Human 2017 Established Yasuyuki Miyasaka (currently Panasonic Homes Co., Ltd.) 2013 Director, Executive Officer and Resources Development and Certified Public Accountant Office 2014 Senior Audit & Supervisory Officer, General Counsel, Sharp Corporation CSR Division and assumed the Head thereof Automotive & Industrial Systems Company, 2014 Director, Executive Managing 2015 Head of Surgical Division (incumbent) Panasonic Corporation Officer and General Counsel, Sharp Peter Sallstig Tatsuya Kaihara Takayuki Yamada 2018 Outside Director, ITOCHU2015 Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Corporation Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer 2019 General Manager, IOL Business SHOKUHIN Co., Ltd. (incumbent) Panasonic Corporation 2019 Established Ito Law Office Planning Group Head of Product Head of North America Business Head of China Business 2018 Outside Corporate Auditor of the 2019 Outside Corporate Auditor of the Company Representative (incumbent) 2020 Standing Corporate Auditor Development Division Company (incumbent) (incumbent) 2019 Independent Director, Kobe Steel, (incumbent) 2020 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Ltd. (incumbent) Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Ltd. (incumbent) 2019 Outside Corporate Auditor of the 2020 Outside Corporate Auditor, Hitachi Zosen Company (incumbent) Corporation (incumbent) 60 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 61 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Data & Corporate Information Results and Finances Summary of Consolidated Results in FY2019 Japan China For fiscal 2019, revenue in the prescription pharmaceuticals On a JPY basis, revenue in the fiscal year ended March Revenue amortization began in April 2019. Other income totaled business increased 4.1% year on year to ¥148.8 billion 31, 2020 increased 4.5% year on year to ¥22.3 billion Revenue for fiscal 2019, the year ended March 31, 2020, ¥0.4 billion and other expenses totaled ¥7.0 billion. This despite a reduction in revenue of approximately 2% caused despite the impact of foreign currency translation increased 3.2% year on year to ¥241.6 billion. Revenue was mainly due to impairment losses on property, plant by National Health Insurance (NHI) drug price revisions. adjustment and a slowdown in revenue due to the from the mainstay prescription pharmaceuticals business and equipment at Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical The increase was mainly due to continued growth in sales outbreak of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter. Revenue increased 4.1% year on year in Japan. In China, Asia and Co., Ltd., a joint venture in China, and impairment losses of Eylea (solution for intravitreal injection)*1 and the launch increased 10.4% on a local currency basis. EMEA, Santen products continued to generate steady on intangible assets associated with the discontinuation of of the anti-allergy ophthalmic solution Alesion LX in growth overall and penetrate markets despite slower development of DE-122 for the treatment of exudative November 2019. Asia sales in some regions in the fourth quarter due to the age-related macular degeneration, which Santen had been Revenue in the OTC pharmaceutical business decreased On a JPY basis, revenue for fiscal 2019 increased 6.3% impact of the COVID-19 outbreak. developing with TRACON Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of the year on year because of depressed inbound demand. year on year to ¥16.5 billion. Revenue increased 11.7% United States. Revenue in the surgical business increased due to the on a local currency basis. Operating Profit In addition to the above, gain on sale of the former contribution of new product Lentis Comfort. As a result, EMEA (1) Core Basis corporate headquarters and Osaka Plant in the previous revenue for the Japan business increased 2.8% year on On a JPY basis, revenue for fiscal 2019 increased 2.3% Gross profit increased 2.4% year on year to ¥146.7 billion. fiscal year did not recur. As a result, operating profit on an year to ¥165.0 billion. year on year to ¥37.0 billion. Revenue increased 8.7% on Selling, general and administrative expenses increased IFRS basis for fiscal 2019 decreased 25.6% year on year *1. Co-promoted product of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) a local currency basis. 2.9% year on year to ¥73.4 billion due to growth in overseas to ¥33.5 billion. businesses. Research and development expenses decreased 1.8% year on year to ¥23.3 billion. As a result, Net Profit Financial Position operating profit on a core basis increased 3.7% year on Financial income was ¥1.0 billion. Financial expenses year to ¥50.0 billion. totaled ¥2.4 billion. This was mainly due to revaluation of As of March 31, 2020, the end of fiscal 2019, assets equivalents increased, among other factors. Equity the InnFocus milestone payment. Income tax expenses to increased ¥17.6 billion from a year earlier to ¥408.8 billion. increased ¥10.0 billion from a year earlier to ¥302.6 billion (2) IFRS Basis totaled ¥10.4 billion. Despite a decrease in income taxes Santen recognized impairment losses on property, plant due to an increase in retained earnings and other factors, Santen does not adjust gross profit, selling, general and resulting from tax credits for research and development, and equipment at Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical which more than offset a decrease in other components administrative expenses, and research and development the tax rate rose due to the impact of unrecognized tax and on intangible assets associated with the discontinuation of equity. Liabilities totaled ¥106.2 billion. As a result of expenses as reported on a core basis. Amortization of consequences on the InnFocus milestone payment and of collaborative development of DE-122 for the treatment the above, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the intangible assets associated with products increased on impairment losses on Chongqing Santen Kerui of exudative age-related macular degeneration with company to total assets decreased 0.3 percentage point 41.6% year on year to ¥9.9 billion. This was mainly due to Pharmaceutical. As a result, net profit for fiscal 2019 TRACON Pharmaceuticals. However, cash and cash from a year earlier to 74.1%. amortization of intangible assets related to ophthalmology decreased 32.0% year on year to ¥21.7 billion. products acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. of the United Capital Expenditures States in 2014; intangible assets related to Ikervis launched Net Profit Attributable to Owners of in Europe in 2015; and intangible assets related to DE-128 the Company Capital expenditures during fiscal 2019 totaled ¥9.0 billion. investments included capital expenditures associated with (PRESERFLO MicroShunt) acquired in the acquisition of Net profit attributable to owners of the company for fiscal Santen deployed capital to upgrade manufacturing facilities the reorganization of production facilities and bases to InnFocus, Inc. of the United States in 2016, for which 2019 decreased 26.1% year on year to ¥23.6 billion. and R&D equipment, and to internalize the production of strengthen the global supply network for products, and IT ophthalmic products acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. Other infrastructure to support global business expansion. Revenue by Region Cash Flows Japan Overseas (Billions of yen) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of fiscal 2019 Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled ¥5.2 0.5 increased ¥20.6 billion from a year earlier to ¥91.4 billion. billion, compared with ¥2.9 billion for the previous fiscal 3.1 (4.4) 241.6 Net cash flows from operating activities totaled ¥39.9 billion year. Payments for acquisition of property, plant and 1.8 2.2 for fiscal 2019, compared with ¥32.9 billion for the previous equipment and payments for acquisition of intangible (2.2) 0.6 5.9 fiscal year. Factors providing cash included net profit for assets used cash totaling ¥9.2 billion, while proceeds from 234.0 the year of ¥21.7 billion, income tax expenses of ¥10.4 sale of investments provided cash totaling ¥3.5 billion. billion, and depreciation and amortization of ¥16.6 billion, Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled ¥12.7 while income taxes paid used cash totaling ¥14.1 billion. billion, compared with ¥28.1 billion for the previous fiscal year. Key factors included dividends paid of ¥10.4 billion and repayments of lease obligations of ¥2.9 billion. FY2018 Prescription OTC Surgical China Asia EMEA Others Forex FY2019 Including others for impact Japan and Americas 62 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 63 Financial Data & Corporate Information Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results and Finances Dividend Policy Development Status Santen prioritizes shareholder returns, and distributes structure. Santen increased cash dividends per share for The 10 projects in the pipeline shown below are some of projects for which an investigational new drug (IND) earnings to shareholders primarily through dividends as fiscal 2019 by ¥1.00 from the previous fiscal year to the projects being developed at Santen. Expanding application is scheduled in the near future and projects for well as share repurchases after comprehensively considering ¥27.00 after comprehensively considering factors including beyond the list below, there are approximately 30 projects improved product formulations and more functional the medium-to-long-term business environment, funding business performance and financial position. As a result, in progress globally (as of April 30, 2020). These include containers to enhance patient convenience. requirements, internal capital reserves, and capital the consolidated payout ratio was 45.6%. Glaucoma As of April 2020 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) Phase Dev. code Generic name Indication Original/Licensor Region Filed Approved P1 P2 P3 MTP2020 has prioritized the following three financial For fiscal 2019, the revenue growth rate was 3.2%, the Glaucoma/ Tafluprost/ Co-development indicators based on proactive investment to achieve profit core operating profit margin was 20.7%, and IFRS ROE DE-111 ocular China timolol maleate with AGC hypertension targets and growth. was 8.0%. The single-year revenue growth rate fell short of the targeted level due to factors including NHI drug U.S. • Grow faster than the market: price revisions in Japan, the impact of currency translation Glaucoma/ Omidenepag Co-development DE-117 ocular Japan Launched Nov. 2018 Revenue growth (CAGR) 6% and the impact of COVID-19, as well as the effect on ROE isopropyl with Ube Industries hypertension • Maintain/grow profit ratio: of impairment losses and other one-time factors. Asia Dec. 2019 Core OP Ratio 21% (MTP average) However, as a result of appropriate control of expenses Glaucoma/ U.S. Phase 2b • Maintain/improve capital efficiency: and other measures, core operating profit margin ONO DE-126 Sepetaprost ocular ROE 11% (MTP average) remained in line with the target. PHARMACEUTICAL hypertension Japan Phase 2b Note: Core ROE excluding special factors is also positioned as a secondary management indicator. https://www.santen.com/en/ir/document/pdf/mtg2018to2020.pdf U.S. Phase 2/3 Glaucoma DE-128 Glaucoma Original Europe Launched Jan. 2019 implant device Outlook for Fiscal 2020 Asia Mar. 2020 In fiscal 2020, the final year of MTP2020, Santen forecasts expense management. These forecasts are premised on Glaucoma/ Europe DE-130A Latanoprost ocular Original that revenue will decrease 2.7% year on year to ¥235.0 foreign exchange rates of 1 USD = 110 JPY, 1 EUR = 120 (Catioprost) hypertension Asia billion due to the decline in patient visits caused by the JPY and 1 CNY = 15 JPY COVID-19 outbreak. However, Santen forecasts that core The forecasts are based on regional assumptions for Keratoconjunctival Disorders operating profit, an indicator of recurring profitability, will when the COVID-19 outbreak will subside, and actual Epinastine Allergic Nippon Boehringer DE-114A Japan Launched Nov. 2019 increase 4.0% year on year to ¥52.0 billion, thus results may differ according to circumstances. Santen will hydrochloride conjunctivitis Ingelheim increasing for the third consecutive fiscal year. Santen will promptly disclose any changes to its full-year earnings Europe Launched Oct. 2018 be able to generate sustainable profit growth despite forecasts in the event of changes of a magnitude sufficient Vernal lower revenue by balancing deployment of resources for to warrant a revision. DE-076C Ciclosporin keratoconjunctivitis Original Asia Launched Aug. 2019 (VKC) future growth with even more disciplined operating Others*1 Launched Nov. 2019 Retinal and Uveal Disorders U.S. Japan DE-109 Sirolimus Uveitis Original Europe Asia Apr. 2015 Refractive Disorders Singapore Health Japan Phase 2/3 Services, Nanyang DE-127 Atropine sulfate Myopia Technological Asia University Others MD-16 Intraocular lens Cataract Oculentis Japan Nov. 2019 *1 Canada For details on the status of the development pipeline, please refer to “Main Products in Pipeline” on the Company’s website. https://www.santen.com/en/rd/pdf/pipeline.pdf 64 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 65 Financial Data & Corporate Information Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data Millions of yen FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS For the year: Net sales/Revenue 110,594 110,812 114,416 119,066 146,260 161,831 195,291 199,096 224,942 234,026 241,555 Cost of sales 34,710 34,437 35,385 41,501 57,353 56,373 72,829 74,966 86,378 90,764 94,831 Selling, general and administrative expenses*1 32,121 32,415 35,073 36,164 41,642 48,893 59,406 62,193 68,788 71,273 73,360 Research and development expenses 14,123 13,221 17,225 16,719 16,862 17,477 19,990 22,786 24,398 23,759 23,341 Operating profit 29,640 30,739 26,733 24,681 29,878 35,374 80,180 32,479 38,691 45,098 33,535 Core operating profit — — — — 30,403 39,088 43,067 39,687 45,378 48,230 50,023 Income taxes/Income tax expenses 9,887 9,741 10,630 9,070 10,643 11,831 26,097 8,331 4,000 11,174 10,377 Net income/Net profit for the year 18,722 21,333 17,160 16,520 19,718 24,032 53,373 21,724 35,261 31,943 21,714 Core net profit for the year — — — — 19,813 25,948 29,163 29,125 33,458 36,092 35,894 Capital expenditures/Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 1,315 1,651 3,281 3,609 5,879 66,440 9,092 9,500 9,937 8,332 9,228 Depreciation and amortization 3,421 2,976 2,949 3,291 2,841 6,958 9,338 9,882 10,896 10,969 16,573 At year-end: Total assets 166,878 184,801 198,801 199,640 237,640 304,200 355,399 358,906 388,463 391,186 408,768 Net assets/Total equity 137,603 156,404 164,861 165,132 187,210 211,779 260,009 255,929 287,557 292,572 302,560 Liabilities 29,275 28,397 33,940 34,507 50,430 92,421 95,391 102,977 100,905 98,614 106,208 Per share data (Yen): EPS (Net income – basic/Basic earnings)*2 220.10 249.71 196.96 195.81 47.78 58.18 128.99 52.96 86.73 78.67 59.16 Core EPS*2 — — — — 48.01 62.82 70.48 70.99 82.29 88.89 90.00 Equity/Equity attributable to owners of the company*2, *3 1,614.08 1,793.15 1,887.81 1998.44 452.43 511.14 627.78 628.09 702.54 728.97 758.50 Cash dividends, applicable to the period*2 16.00 18.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 22.00 25.00 26.00 26.00 26.00 27.00 Cash flows: Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities 26,110 17,768 21,483 9,942 26,686 25,386 22,525 10,843 42,843 32,894 39,947 Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities (829) (7,676) (10,272) (4,595) (7,847) (61,709) 37,052 (28,201) (8,259) (2,935) (5,175) Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (6,753) (1,570) (8,559) (21,557) (7,954) 28,960 (24,066) (28,657) (17,631) (28,107) (12,729) Free cash flow*4 24,795 16,118 18,203 6,334 20,807 (41,054) 13,433 1,342 32,906 24,562 30,719 Interest coverage ratio (times) 558.1 488.5 1,285.0 3,037.8 2,855.4 309.8 230.9 206.6 1,573.6 4,330.0 210.1 Financial data: ROE (Return (Net income) on equity/Return (Net profit for the year) on equity attributable to owners of the company) (%)*3 14.3 14.5 10.7 10.0 11.1 12.0 22.6 8.4 13.0 11.1 8.0 Core ROE (%) — — — — 11.2 13.0 12.4 11.3 12.4 12.5 12.1 ROA (Return (Net income/Net profit for the year) on total assets) (%) 11.8 12.1 8.9 8.3 8.9 8.9 16.2 6.1 9.4 8.2 5.4 Equity ratio/Equity attributable to owners of the company ratio (%)*3 82.3 84.5 82.8 82.6 78.8 69.6 73.2 71.1 73.6 74.4 74.1 Debt equity ratio (Interest-bearing debt to equity ratio/ Interest-bearing debt to equity attributable to owners of the company ratio) (times)*3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 PER (Price earnings ratio) (times) 12.7 13.3 17.9 22.7 19.2 30.1 13.1 30.4 19.8 21.0 31.4 Dividend payout ratio (%) 36.3 36.0 50.8 51.1 41.9 37.8 19.4 49.1 30.0 33.0 45.6 Issued shares at fiscal year-end (thousands, including treasury shares) 86,992 87,053 87,147 82,469 82,583 82,653 414,192 406,173 406,848 399,782 400,028 Number of employees 2,756 2,867 3,053 3,050 3,072 3,230 3,463 3,667 3,805 4,073 4,108 *1 Research and development expenses are excluded under JGAAP. *3 Equity is calculated by deducting stock subscription rights from net assets under JGAAP. *2 The Company conducted a five-for-one share split of ordinary shares on the effective date of April 1, 2015. Per share data other than cash dividends applicable to the period *4 Free cash flow = Net cash flows from operating activities minus capital payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets for fiscal 2013 and the subsequent fiscal years are calculated under the assumption that the share split took effect at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Cash dividends applicable to the period have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of the share split. 66 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 67 Financial Data & Corporate Information Main Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries (As of March 31) Millions of yen Millions of yen FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 Revenue 234,026 241,555 Assets Non-current assets Cost of sales (90,764) (94,831) Property, plant and equipment 31,699 35,601 Gross profit 143,262 146,724 Intangible assets 131,110 119,850 Selling, general and administrative expenses (71,273) (73,360) Financial assets 30,044 30,848 Research and development expenses (23,759) (23,341) Deferred tax assets 1,771 2,100 Amortization of intangible assets associated with products (6,988) (9,898) Other non-current assets 1,819 1,813 Total non-current assets 196,444 190,212 Other income 4,028 390 Current assets Other expenses (172) (6,980) Inventories 35,235 35,282 Operating profit 45,098 33,535 Trade and other receivables 84,618 86,999 Finance income 901 950 Other financial assets 267 452 Finance expenses (2,881) (2,393) Other current assets 3,826 4,392 Cash and cash equivalents 70,796 91,430 Profit before tax 43,117 32,091 Total current assets 194,742 218,556 Income tax expenses (11,174) (10,377) Total assets 391,186 408,768 Net profit for the year 31,943 21,714 Equity Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax Equity attributable to owners of the company Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Share capital 8,252 8,366 Capital surplus 8,661 8,746 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 9 (253) Treasury shares (1,131) (1,033) Net gain or loss on financial assets measured at fair value through other Retained earnings 258,659 273,422 comprehensive income (3,289) 2,696 Other components of equity 16,461 13,364 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Total equity attributable to owners of the company 290,900 302,865 Foreign currency translation adjustments 794 (3,972) Non-controlling interests 1,672 (305) Other comprehensive income (2,486) (1,529) Total equity 292,572 302,560 Total comprehensive income for the year 29,456 20,185 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Profit attributable to Financial liabilities 23,520 27,592 Owners of the company 31,954 23,618 Net defined benefit liabilities 1,992 1,738 Provisions 1,255 570 Non-controlling interests (11) (1,904) Deferred tax liabilities 9,389 7,228 Net profit for the year 31,943 21,714 Other non-current liabilities 1,795 1,483 Total non-current liabilities 37,951 38,611 Total comprehensive income attributable to Current liabilities Owners of the company 29,519 22,162 Trade and other payables 32,079 32,578 Non-controlling interests (62) (1,977) Other financial liabilities 12,116 18,777 Total comprehensive income for the year 29,456 20,185 Income tax payable 7,185 6,848 Provisions 717 633 Earnings per share (Yen) Other current liabilities 8,566 8,761 Basic earnings per share 78.67 59.16 Total current liabilities 60,663 67,597 Diluted earnings per share 78.43 59.01 Total liabilities 98,614 106,208 Total equity and liabilities 391,186 408,768 68 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 69 Financial Data & Corporate Information Main Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries (Fiscal 2018) Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries (Fiscal 2019) Millions of yen Millions of yen Other components of equity Other components of equity Net gain or loss on Net gain or loss on financial assets financial assets Remeasurements Remeasurements Share Capital Treasury Retained measured at fair Share Capital Treasury Retained measured at fair of defined of defined capital surplus shares earnings value through other capital surplus shares earnings value through other benefit plans benefit plans comprehensive comprehensive income income Balance at April 1, 2018 8,032 8,657 (11) 249,225 — 14,364 Balance at April 1, 2019 8,252 8,661 (1,131) 258,659 — 10,230 Comprehensive income Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 31,954 Net profit for the year 23,618 Other comprehensive income 9 (3,289) Other comprehensive income (253) 2,696 Total comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 31,954 9 (3,289) for the year — — — 23,618 (253) 2,696 Transactions with owners Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 152 152 Issuance of new shares 114 114 Acquisition of treasury shares (148) (13,911) Acquisition of treasury shares (22) Retirement of treasury stock (12,791) 12,791 Retirement of treasury stock (85) 121 Transfer from retained earnings Dividends (10,379) to capital surplus 12,791 (12,791) Share-based payments 56 Dividends (10,581) Other 1,523 253 (1,776) Share-based payments 67 (1) Total transactions with owners 114 85 99 (8,856) 253 (1,776) Other 853 (9) (844) Balance at March 31, 2020 8,366 8,746 (1,033) 273,422 — 11,150 Total transactions with owners 220 4 (1,120) (22,519) (9) (844) Balance at March 31, 2019 8,252 8,661 (1,131) 258,659 — 10,230 Millions of yen Millions of yen Other components of equity Other components of equity Total equity Total equity Foreign currency Foreign currency Subscription attributable to Non-controlling Total Subscription attributable to Non-controlling Total translation Total translation Total rights to shares owners of the interests equity rights to shares owners of the interests equity adjustments adjustments company company Balance at April 1, 2018 4,583 975 19,921 285,823 1,734 287,557 Balance at April 1, 2019 5,428 802 16,461 290,900 1,672 292,572 Comprehensive income Comprehensive income Net profit for the year — 31,954 (11) 31,943 Net profit for the year — 23,618 (1,904) 21,714 Other comprehensive income 845 (2,435) (2,435) (51) (2,486) Other comprehensive income (3,899) (1,457) (1,457) (73) (1,529) Total comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 845 — (2,435) 29,519 (62) 29,456 for the year (3,899) — (1,457) 22,162 (1,977) 20,185 Transactions with owners Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (173) (173) 132 132 Issuance of new shares (117) (117) 112 112 Acquisition of treasury shares — (14,059) (14,059) Acquisition of treasury shares — (22) (22) Retirement of treasury stock — — — Transfer from retained earnings Retirement of treasury stock — 35 35 to capital surplus — — — Dividends — (10,379) (10,379) Dividends — (10,581) (10,581) Share-based payments — 56 56 Share-based payments — 67 67 Other (1,523) — — Other (853) — — Total transactions with owners — (117) (1,640) (10,198) — (10,198) Total transactions with owners — (173) (1,025) (24,442) — (24,442) Balance at March 31, 2020 1,529 686 13,364 302,865 (305) 302,560 Balance at March 31, 2019 5,428 802 16,461 290,900 1,672 292,572 70 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 71 Financial Data & Corporate Information Main Financial Information Stock Information (As of March 31, 2020) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen Major Shareholders (Top 10) Composition of Shareholders Number of Percentage FY2018 FY2019 By number of shares Name shares held of ownership (Thousands) (%) Cash flows from operating activities Treasury shares 0.1% Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. Net profit for the year 31,943 21,714 34,387 8.6 Individual investors 7.6% (Trust Account) Depreciation and amortization 10,969 16,573 Financial institutions STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST 33,391 8.4 36.8% COMPANY 505223 Number of Impairment losses — 5,825 shares issued The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. Foreign investors 400,028,254 Gain on disposal of non-current assets (3,592) (0) (Trust Account) 31,565 7.9 47.8% Finance expenses (income) (700) (592) Securities ﬁrms Nippon Life Insurance Company 10,662 2.7 1.1% Income tax expenses 11,174 10,377 Other institutions 6.6% Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (6,303) (3,054) MUFG Bank, Ltd. 10,605 2.7 Decrease (increase) in inventories (5,000) (981) By number of shareholders ONO PHARMACEUTICAL Co., Ltd. 9,307 2.3 Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 2,445 717 Financial institutions 0.4% Increase (decrease) in provisions and net defined benefit liabilities (518) (1,242) Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. Securities ﬁrms 0.2% 8,639 2.2 (Trust Account 7) Treasury shares 0.0% Other institutions 0.8% Increase (decrease) in accounts payable–other 1,181 1,305 RBC IST 15 PCT LENDING ACCOUNT 7,876 2.0 Foreign investors 4.7% Increase (decrease) in long-term accounts payable–other 1,885 1,279 – CLIENT ACCOUNT Number of Other 2,116 1,584 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. 7,585 1.9 shareholders (Trust Account 5) 14,434 Subtotal 45,601 53,506 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. as trustee Interest received 187 200 for Eisai Co., Ltd. Retirement Benefit Trust 6,863 1.7 Individual investors Account re-entrusted by Mizuho Trust and 93.9% Dividends received 521 581 Banking Co., Ltd. Interest paid (8) (190) Income tax paid (13,408) (14,149) Yearly High and Low Prices (Yen) Total Shareholder Return Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities 32,894 39,947 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 High 2,163 1,749 1,946 2,061 2,234 (%) 98.2 95.0 102.4 100.1 113.6 Cash flows from investing activities TOPIX including Payments for acquisition of investments (931) (398) Low 1,542 1,251 1,463 1,450 1,408 dividends (%) 89.2 102.3 118.5 112.5 101.8 Proceeds from sale of investments 2,156 3,503 Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (5,470) (5,824) Stock Price Range (Yen) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 4,338 0 Monthly basis 2,500 Payments for acquisition of intangible assets (2,863) (3,404) 2,000 Other (166) 949 1,500 Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities (2,935) (5,175) 1,000 TOPIX (Tokyo stock price index) Cash flows from financing activities 500 Proceeds from long-term loans 567 1,477 0 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 2019/4 2020/4 Repayments of long-term loans (4,098) (500) (Year/Month) Purchase of treasury stock (14,124) (22) Trading Volume (Thousands of shares) Dividends paid (10,580) (10,379) Monthly basis Repayments of lease obligations (4) (2,859) 48,000 Other 132 (447) 36,000 Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (28,107) (12,729) 24,000 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,852 22,044 12,000 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 69,283 70,796 0 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (338) (1,410) 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 2019/4 2020/4 (Year/Month) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period 70,796 91,430 72 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 73 Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2020) On the Publication of Santen Report 2020 Corporate Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Number of Shares The Santen Group has been issuing integrated reports since fiscal 2017. From 400,028,254 Headquarters Grand Front Osaka Tower A, 4-20 Ofuka-cho, Issued this fiscal year, we aim to provide a deeper understanding of the Group’s value Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8552, Japan Number of creation by taking more of a medium-to-long-term perspective. Our initiatives TEL: +81-6-6321-7000 (Main) 14,434 Shareholders E-mail ir@santen.com (IR) have included disclosure regarding our unique business model and value Stock Exchange communication@santen.com Listing Tokyo creation as well as materialities, and enhanced information on specific (Corporate Communications) measures that lead to the creation of value. We have also changed the name Ticker Code 4536 URL https://www.santen.com/ of the document from annual report to Santen Report. Transfer Agent Osaka Corporate Agency Division, Established 1890 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation This year is Santen’s 130th anniversary as well as the final year of Vision 6-3, Fushimi-cho 3-chome, Chuo-ku, 2020, and that, as well as additional factors including the announcement of Paid-in Capital ¥8,366 million Osaka 541-8502, Japan Santen 2030, our new long-term vision, means that 2020 is a major milestone Number of 4,108 (consolidated) for Santen. I hope this report helps you understand how we approach eyeEmployees related social issues and what kind of social and economic value we intend to provide through Santen 2030 under the leadership of our new CEO. In Website Inclusion in ESG Indexes addition, through a message from our Chairman, a conversation with an Please refer to Santen’s website for more detailed information on Index name Overview each section of this report. Outside Director and other sections, this report introduces our efforts to FTSE4Good Index Series developed by FTSE Russell improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and further strengthen • Corporate Website Index Series in the U.K. The index series selects Satoshi Suzuki https://www.santen.com/ governance under our new governance system. companies based on evaluations of their Senior Corporate Officer initiatives in the areas of Environmental, In preparing the report, we have edited it with the aim of making it easy to Head of Corporate Development Division Social and Governance (ESG) activities. understand, objective and accurate, based on the opinions of investors and experts, with reference to various guidelines including The International FTSE Blossom A broad index developed by FTSE Integrated Reporting Framework from the International Integrated Reporting Council and The GRI Sustainability Reporting Japan Index Russell in the U.K. The index Standards from the Global Reporting Initiative. As the person in charge of the organization responsible for editing and incorporates overall ESG considerations. issuing the report, I hereby declare that the process of preparing the integrated report has been proper and its contents are accurate. Santen will continue to strive to provide sustainable value to society and improve its corporate value through constructive MSCI World ESG An index developed by MSCI in the U.S. dialogue with its stakeholders. We welcome your frank opinions. • IR Website • CSR Website Leaders Indexes The index selects companies from their (subsection of corporate website) (subsection of corporate website) respective industries based on outstanding https://www.santen.com/en/ir/ https://www.santen.com/en/csr/ ESG performance. Santen Report 2020 Production Members (Corporate Communications Group, IR Group, CSR Group) MSCI Japan ESG Select An index developed by MSCI in the Leaders Index U.S. The index selects companies that rate highly for ESG response from among the top 700 Japanese stocks by market capitalization. Editorial Policy Information Provided Reference Guidelines Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements From fiscal 2017, Santen has integrated its former Annual Information contained in this report is selected in order of The International Integrated Reporting Framework This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the Report and CSR Report into an integrated report that provides importance from the prespectives of value creation for Santen (International Integrated Reporting Council), The Company’s plans, strategies and results for the future. All a view of overall business activities based on our CORE and the impact on stakeholders. GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (Global forward-looking statements are based on judgments derived PRINCIPLE. The integrated report is edited with the intention of Reporting Initiative), Environmental Reporting from the information available to the Company at the time of informing stakeholders about the value Santen provides to Applicable Scope Guidelines (Japan’s Ministry of the Environment) publication. Certain risks and uncertainties could cause the customers and society and includes comprehensive coverage of Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries and Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company’s actual results to differ materially from any financial information as well as non-financial information such as Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation projections presented in this report. These risks and management strategies, review of operations and CSR activities. (Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) uncertainties include, but are not limited to, adverse economic Reporting Period Santen has streamlined content and simplified descriptions to conditions, delays in new product launches, currency allow for easier understanding by a wide range of stakeholders, Fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) exchange rates, legislative and regulatory developments. Note on Accounting Standards starting with shareholders and investors. Detailed information is Certain information is updated after April 1, 2020. The Santen Group has adopted International Financial Reporting available on the corporate website listed above. Standards (IFRS) from fiscal 2014, for the purpose of enhancing the international comparability of its financial information. Figures for fiscal 2013 have been restated to conform to IFRS for “QR Code” used on each page of this report is a registered trademark of comparison and analysis purposes. DENSO WAVE INCORPORATED. 74 Santen Report 2020 Santen Report 2020 75
