W. GIERTSEN ENERGY SOLUTIONS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP): From: 16 January 2019 To: 14 April 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 14 April 2020 To our stakeholders: W. Giertsen Energy Solutions’ vision is to enrich and enhance the lives of the people and communities in which we operate by providing the high value and quality renewable energy solutions. The Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption continue at the forefront of the operations and business values at W. Giertsen Energy Solutions (WGES). In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Sustainable Development Goals are the blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for the global community. In the midst of the historic COVID-19 Pandemic, we feel its timelier than ever to join together as a global community to take collective action, to support workers and to facilitate business continuity for a swift recovery. CEO W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 1 of 8 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS A Sustainable Society – W. Giertsen Energy Solutions believes there are 3 key elements most needed in Africa: ENERGY, WATER, COOLING. Through our commitment to the UN Global Compact, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and WGES’ Vision and Values we have highlighted our progress toward these initiatives over the past year. HUMAN RIGHTS Amid this historic and unprecedented time of the COVID-19 virus, W. Giertsen Energy Solutions reaffirms its support of Human Rights. We understand that access to basic medical care is a key human right in sustainable development. We believe that through providing stable access to clean energy through renewable sources, not only can hospitals, clinics, and health centers in remote areas improve their quality and service to the community, but also the pharmaceutical cold chain can be better maintained. Since our last COP, we have completed several projects in Africa partnering with local communities and entities. As a result of our solar energy installations, health facilities are now able to operate at night, store medicals and vaccines without spoilage, and increase the services able to be provided to the community. We believe that human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, regardless of race, sex, nationality, ethnicity, language, religion, or any other status and that everyone is entitled to these rights, without discrimination. We conduct business keeping this principle as a core of our practice. We continue to take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of human rights: W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 2 of 8  Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct  We will conduct business only with companies or entities that recognize and demonstrate that their employees are protected from the any form of abuse, physically, economically, socially or psychologically.  We offer a safe, suitable, and sanitary working environment to our employees at all of our various working locations.  Selection and monitoring of partners to ensure that the company monitors or eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products WGES Solar Installation in Katoba, Zambia, part of the Visjon 2030 Grant Programme LABOUR WGES has offices in Norway, Germany, and Kenya and engages in projects throughout Africa and the world. Given the international scope of our business it is critical that we are aware and mindful of labour practices and expectations both locally and internationally. As of April 2020, WGES has the 13 staff members of which 10 are men and 3 are women, in addition to various project specific subcontractors. There are three positions at the senior level of management, one of which is held by a Kenyan woman. We team up with Germany/Europe, Kenya and with our local partners to expand our growing partnership with the UN. We will continue to identify opportunities to deliver products and services to our global community. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 3 of 8 WGES employment policy and human resource structure is sensitive to the locations in which we operate as well as the partners that we engage with for local projects. Design Hub/Women’s Workshop, Energy Save Installation in Cold room for fish, Off-grid in Hergeisa, Somalia 2019 Kampala, Uganda 2019 We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of labour:  We abide by the UN and internationally recognized labor standards  Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct  Employees are compensated according to local and relevant working locations  WGES does not tolerate any form of forced labour, child labour, or bonded labour from its partners, manufacturers or any entity doing business with WGES.  All employment-related decisions are based on objective criteria, competence, experience and education. ENVIRONMENT W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 4 of 8 W. Giertsen Energy Solutions’ is a company providing solar energy products and solar energy systems to Africa and the world; we design and execute projects geared at reducing long term energy cost and environmental impact. New and revolutionary energy storage system based on supercapacitors Most recently, we have added a new product to our portfolio that will revolutionize the way energy is stored – the Sirius Supercap Battery. This technology offers a unique set of non-chemical energy storage solutions that traditional chemical battery storage cannot such as, high functionality in hot climates, superior energy storage and performance, a projected calendar life of 45 years, lower OPEX cost, and significantly decreased environmental impact at the time of its disposal. Since 2014, we have successfully delivered multiple projects with more projects currently in the pipeline. The environmental products/solutions that we provide to our customers is a core and important part of our business structure. Our current delivery portfolio includes: hospitals/health installations, energy generating installations, cool warehouses, portable cold room for temperature controlled storage (i.e. fish, agriculture, dairy, pharmaceuticals), offices, solar home systems, power back-up systems, and solar water pumps and irrigation systems. In addition, we have been awarded our ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications. We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of environment:  WGES QHSE Policy  WGES Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Practice  Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 5 of 8  Selection of suppliers that monitor and ensure that they avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment, etc.)  Selections of partners with ISO certification or other internationally recognized equivalent quality and environment standards.  Selections of suppliers with ISO certification or other internationally recognized equivalent quality and environment standards.  Provision of training for safe handling, maintenance and disposal of solar energy systems with local staff and partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION All the projects that W. Giertsen Energy Solutions undertakes are in partnership with international agencies, corporations, multi-national companies, etc. A major part of the project development and execution plan encompasses issues such as risk, ethics, and anti-corruption. WGES values its reputation as a company which is trustworthy, dependable and committed to quality in all dimensions. We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of AntiCorruption:  WGES Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Practice  Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT IN 2020:  Continued development of a WGES Supplier Code of Conduct encompassing the themes of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-corruption.  Establishing a requirement for partners and suppliers to provide evidence either in their policies and/or practices that they abide by the WGES Supplier Code of Conduct and the UN Supplier Code of Conduct.  Continued development of project management and execution strategy based on the Circles of Sustainability. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 6 of 8 1 CONCLUSION: In partnerships between private entities and the public sector through investments in business activities is seen as a critical part of poverty alleviation. Furthermore, limited or lack of access to stable energy is also seen as one of the greatest obstacles to development. Our solutions and partnerships aim to address both issues. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions has the potential to have an important and positive impact on global community lives and the environment. We aim to effectively execute our policy of transparency and social fairness through our quality management and project delivery strategies. In summary:  We are excited to contribute to a sustainable tomorrow.  We are committed to integrating international and globally recognized standards into our business practices.  We will seek to only interact with companies who promise and demonstrate delivery of ethical and practical solutions. WGES is not only a low-carbon and environmentally sustainable, but also turns poverty, inequality, gender inequality, and lack of financial access into new opportunities for countries using our leadership and renewable technology. 1 UNGCCP., 2012. Circles of sustainability: Approaching urban sustainability from its relationship to the social. United Nations Global Compact Cities Program (UNGCCP), RMIT University, Australia W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 7 of 8 The COVID-19 pandemic has made WGES aware of the critical importance of supporting the global initiatives of the UN. For more information about W. Giertsen Energy Solutions please visit our website: www.giertsenenergy.com. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 8 of 8
