Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We build for a better society. Contents Group overview Financial information This is Skanska 4 Financial analysis 86 2019 in brief 5 Consolidated income statement 94 Comments by the President and CEO 6 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Skanska as an investment 9 Consolidated statement of financial position 96 Share data and funding 10 Consolidated statement of financial position 97 Market overview 13 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 98 Financial targets 2016–2020 15 Consolidated cash flow statement 99 Business plan 2016–2020 16 Consolidated cash flow statement, specification 100 Great People 18 Parent company income statement 101 Operational Excellence 19 Parent company balance sheet 102 Market Making 20 Parent company statement of changes in equity 103 Business model 22 Parent company cash flow statement 104 Operations Notes including accounting and valuation principles 105 Business streams 23 – Note 66 Allocation of earnings 192 Construction 24 Auditor´s report 193 Residential Development 28 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report on Commercial Property Development 32 Skanska AB’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting 198 Major orders, investments and divestments 199 Corporate governance 37 GRI Content Index 204 Corporate governance report 46 Quarterly information 208 Board of DirectorsBoard of Directors 48 Annual General Meeting 210 Group Leadership 50 Investors 210 Risk and opportunity management Addresses 211 Sustainability report Sustainability report 56 Health and Safety 58 Refer to segment reporting Ethics 62 Report of the Directors Green 66 Community Investment 73 Diversity and Inclusion 76 Non-financial information 79 Segment and IFRS reporting About this report Skanska’s business streams – Construction, Residential Development The 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report is submitted by the Board of Directors and the President of Skanska AB (publ) to describe the operations of both the and Commercial Property Development – represent the Group’s Company and the Group. The formal annual report consists of the Report of operating segments. The point at which revenue is recognized differs the Directors and financial reports on pages 37–192 and has been audited by between segment and IFRS reporting for Residential Development Skanska’s external auditors. Pages 56–85 include Skanska’s statutory sustainabiland Commercial Property Development. In this report, revenues and ity report, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Skanska is reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core sustainability reporting guidelines. earnings for these business streams on pages 4–36, 66, 86–93 refer to Skanska aims to ensure that all information and data is relevant, transparent, segment reporting, unless stated otherwise. The financial reports, consistent, accurate and complete and that it provides an objective picture of the including the statement of financial position and cash flow, have been Group’s operations. Further information about Skanska’s sustainability efforts can prepared in accordance with IFRS. be found at: group.skanska.com/sustainability. This document is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual and Sustainability Report. In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail. Skanska AB, Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615. Penn Station | New York City | USA We build for a better society With more than 130 years in construction and project development, we enrich cities and communities in selected home markets in the Nordic ­region, Europe and the USA where we create buildings and civil infrastructure including schools, hospitals, homes and offices as well as highways and mass-transit. Skanska is accountable to future generations, which is why we promote green ­solutions and conduct our operations in a sustainable way. We aim to be a leader within sustainability. This includes prioritizing safety and fostering a working ­climate where everyone can speak their mind as well as an inclusive culture where we are open and fair, showing trust and respect for each other. We leverage ­diversity to deliver the best solutions. These expected behaviors are anchored in our values and guide Skanska in setting priorities that deliver on our purpose of building for a better society. In New York City, USA, Skanska is transforming the landmark Farley Post Office Building into the ­Moynihan Train Hall, a new portal for accessing trains serving the adjacent Penn Station, one of the busiest train hubs in the USA. Read more on page 14. This is Skanska Skanska’s operations Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project development companies, focused on selected home markets in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. Skanska’s diversification across various business streams strengthens the Group’s competitive standing and ensures a balanced and diversified risk profile. Construction Residential Development Commercial Property Development Skanska constructs and renovates b ­ uildings, Skanska develops new residential buildings, Skanska develops customer-focused office infrastructure and homes, and also provides including single and multi-family housing, buildings and logistics properties built by facilities management and other related built by the Construction business stream. the Construction business stream. ­services. Read more on page 24. Read more on page 28. Read more on page 32. Skanska’s purpose and values Skanska’s purpose – We build for a better society – reflects the Group’s role in society, a position Skanska that enables Skanska to create value. Fundamental to fulfilling its Purpose are Skanska’s four values: Values Care for Life, Act Ethically and Transparently, Be Better – Together, and Commit to Customers. Skanska’s Values Care Act Ethically Be Better – Commit to for Life & Transparently Together Customers Sustainable future Striving to be in the forefront of sustainability, Skanska helps create a sustainable future for customers and communities. Carbon emissions Certified commercial buildings Energy reduction in share of total divestments new office buildings -28% Reduction of carbon emissions 90% Share of total value, corresponding to -37% Annual energy reduction in divested since 2015. SEK 15.4 billion, of divested offices in office buildings developed by Commercial the Commercial Property Development Development Nordics, Europe and USA ­business stream, certified with WELL, compared to average. LEED (Platinum or Gold) or BREEAM (Excellent). 4 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 This is Skanska 2019 in brief Construction margin of 2.4% Los Angeles launch Underlying profitability is improving. With more selective bidSkanska enters the commercial development market in Los ding, improved commercial focus and increased cost efficiency, Angeles, USA, its fifth US city, with the acquisition of a site in profitability has the potential to grow further. ­Beverly Hills dedicated to the office project 9000 Wilshire with the goal to achieve LEED Platinum. BoKlok launch in the UK Skanska expands its Residential Development offering to the UK market with the low-cost homes concept BoKlok. Ranked #20 on Fortune’s Change the World List 2019 17 Sold properties in Commercial Property Development business stream according to segment reporting. 2045 Net-zero carbon emissions 2045 177 SEK billion in total revenues. 15 In 2019, Skanska set the target to achieve net-zero carbon emissions, throughout the value chain. Establishing and fostering innovative partnerships within the value chain will be critical to achieving SEK billion in unrealized gains in Project the climate target. Development including the PPP-portfolio. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 5 Comments by the President and CEO Comments by the President and CEO Skanska continued its path of improving Construction performance and generating strong value from Project Development. During the year, Construction profitability improved, Commercial Development profits reached a record high, with the expansion to Los Angeles in the USA and BoKlok expanded into the UK. The Group’s guiding principles – our values and purpose – provides a considerable competitive advantage for the years ahead. Earnings per share In 2019, our performance improved as we Controlled expansion of 15.46 continued to execute our strategic plan. Project Development Within our Construction business stream, In Residential Development, Skanska is this involves prioritizing profit ahead of benefitting from our broad offering spanrevenue and improving project execution. ning countries and housing s­ egments. This With Project Development, we are conenables us to shift investments to maxiSEK, Earnings per share increased centrating on creating and realizing value, mize opportunities. Most n ­ otably during by 62 percent. now and in the coming years. the year, we expanded BoKlok – the lowOverall for the year, operating income cost homes concept owned by Skanska and was SEK 7.8 billion (4.8). In our Construc­ IKEA – into the UK, a country in which tion stream, we raised the operating marwe foresee good opportuni­ties for ­BoKlok. gin to 2.4 percent, still below our target This expansion is r­ epresentative of how of at least 3.5 percent. Return on c­ apital we grow our Project D ­ evelopment operemployed in Project Development was ations in controlled, thoroughly planned 10.3 percent, above our target of at least ways. Furthermore, with S­ kanska’s robust Operating margin – Construction 10 percent. Also, our return on equity was balance sheet we are well-positioned as 2.4% 21.4 percent (14.1), above our target of at Swedish homebuyers shift to making their least 18 percent. Our shareholders experipurchases closer to the move-in date. enced a price return of 50 percent for the During the year, Residential ­Development’s year. Based on our robust financial posioperating margin was 9.6 (14.0). tion, Skanska’s Board of Directors proCommercial Property Development Successive performance poses a dividend of SEK 6.25 (6.00). recorded yet another excellent year, with improvement in Construction. favorable demand from tenants and invesFocused on Construction “sweet spots” tors. In this positive environment, we In Construction, our underlying profit­utilized Skanska’s financial strength to ability has improved. A significant recovstep up investments across all regions: ery in Europe and the US and a continued Nordics, Europe and the USA and we high level of activity in the Nordics were and realized about SEK 4 billion in value the main drivers. This is a result of our during the year. In 2019, we expanded strategy that includes improving the perthis business stream to a fifth US city: Los Capital gains – Commercial formance of current projects through Angeles, a dynamic global gateway with Property Development more proactive risk management, a stronmuch potential for Skanska’s property 4.4 ger commercial focus, increased cost effidevelopments. ciency and more discipline in the projects we pursue. Central to this is only t­ argeting Benefitting from a strong foundation projects within our “sweet spots” – the Skanska’s performance is built on the solid sectors, geographies and contract types foundation we have in our clear v­ alues, SEK billion in gain on sale, including in which we have a track record of s­ uccess strong balance sheet, integrated b ­ usiness joint ventures, reached an new and see the most future potential. We conmodel and trusted brand. F ­ urther­more, all-time-high. tinually review the performance of all our purpose of building for a better our operations and we take action where ­society inspires our great people and needed. With this, Construction profitattracts other talented individuals to join ability should continue to rise. Skanska. This is a strong competitive advantage, as for what companies stand for matters more than ever. 6 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Comments by the President and CEO »We will continue to f­ ocus on raising Construction ­profitability and enhancing value creation through ­Project Development. « In 2019, we made significant progress in Tragically, three fatalities occurred on By the end of 2020, Skanska will publicly implementing an updated Group goverSkanska project sites in 2019. Our aim is share the next business plan that will take nance framework that reduces risk and an injury-­free environment and no fataleffect on January 1, 2021. This plan will increases effectivity. This framework proity should be acceptable. We must – and build on Skanska’s strengths, our values vides business units with more flexibility we will – close the gap between actions and purpose to build for a better society, to serve customers while e­ nsuring proper and truly living our Care for Life value. with the ambition to deliver an industry oversight over critical business processes. Increasing our focus on Health and Safety leading total shareholder return. The governance framework connects well is a top priority for Skanska. Working Skanska has many accomplishments to with Skanska’s values and Code of Consafely requires operational discipline, be proud of and many ­opportunities ahead duct to provide the basis for delivering which is also essential to achieving high of us. I thank our customers, b ­ usiness ­stable long-term value to shareholders. performance overall on our projects. partners, shareholders and employees for enabling Skanska’s success. Supporting the Sustainable Ready for the future Development Goals For 2020, Skanska will advance even Skanska is committed to ensuring a sustain­ ­f urther through our strategic actions to able future for our business and s­ ociety. become more effective and better perStockholm, February 2020 Our sustainability work links with the forming. We will continue to focus on United Nations (UN) Sustainable Developraising Construction profitability and ment Goals, which helps us continuously ­enhancing value creation through Project Anders Danielsson maintain our support for the universal Development. President and CEO sustainability principles defined by the We expect high activity to continue in UN Global Compact. many of our markets. However, we will In 2019, Skanska set a target of achievclosely watch conditions, particularly given ing net-zero carbon emissions by 2045, ongoing political and macroeconomic including our value chain. This is essential uncertainties. We are well prepared for for supporting the Paris Agreement and future conditions, as we have strengthened for innovating climate-smart customer risk management processes and continusolutions. ally protect our balance sheet. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 7 2+U | Seattle | USA Business, meet pleasure Leveraging the power of proximity, 2+U is a 38-story, lifted Beneath the 25 meters off the ground tower lies the office tower in the heart of Seattle’s Central Business Urban Village – nearly 2,000 square meters of covered, ­District. 100 percent leased prior to the completed con­ outdoor space open to the public. The design gathers and struction, global office tenants include Indeed.com, Dropconnects the local community of tenants, neighbors and box, Qualtrics and Spaces. 2+U offers 64,000 square meters visitors. In partnership with arts organization Shunpike and of flexible office space with unobstructed views of the Puget the Downtown Seattle Association (DSA), 2+U will also host Sound river from a private tenant rooftop deck. Skanska Seattle’s first-ever free arts space, The Studio, as well as a began construction in February 2017 and completed 2+U year-round, arts and cultural program in a designated space in the fourth quarter of 2019. Seeking LEED Platinum certificalled The Square. cation, the project has not yet been divested. 8 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Skanska as an investment Skanska as an investment Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project development companies, with a compelling offering and a solid business model that creates value for shareholders. Skanska is a leader in its selected home markets Supported by strong trends in demographics, urbanization and sustainability, the need for new and more sustainable solutions increases and is driving investments in infrastructure, healthcare, housing, offices and education. This brings ­opportunities for Skanska to create value while building for a better society. A compelling offering A solid business model Value for shareholders With its financial strength, combined Through an integrated business model, Driven by Skanska’s values and business with deep expertise, and by aiming to Skanska generates significant ­positive model, Skanska helps create sustainable be in the forefront of sustainability, cash flow from Construction that futures for customers and communities ­Skanska offers competitive solutions for is ­continuously invested in Project as well as create value for shareholders. both simple and complex assignments. Develop­ment for enhanced returns. Skanska has a long track record of good financial returns generating attractive shareholder value long-term. Earnings for the period per share Growth in equity Total return on the Skanska share and Return on equity including dividends compared to indices SEK SEK bn % 20 50 70 200 60 15 40 50 150 40 10 30 30 20 100 5 20 10 0 10 0 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n EPS (SEK) n Equity closing balance Skanska B ROE (%) n Equity closing balance, dividends restored¹ SIX Portfolio Return Index DJ Construction & Materials Titans Total Return Index SBI2 Total Return 1 Compound Annual Growth Rate 12 percent. 2 Strategic Benchmark Index consists of listed companies that, taken together, reflects Skanska’s operations. Skanska share history 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Year-end market price, SEK 211.70 141.00 170.00 215.10 164.80 167.90 Year-end market capitalization, SEK bn 87.1 57.8 69.5 88.0 67.7 69.0 Average number of shares for the year, million¹ 411.5 409.7 408.9 409.3 411.0 410.8 Highest share price during the year, SEK 216.00 179.70 226.60 218.70 208.40 170.00 Lowest share price during the year, SEK 140.85 134.85 170.00 149.20 151.40 126.70 Yield, %² 3.0 4.3 4.9 3.8 4.6 4.0 Earnings per share, SEK 3 15.46 9.55 12.01 15.89 11.96 9.98 Regular dividend per share, SEK 6.25 4 6.00 8.25 8.25 7.50 6.75 Dividend pay-out ratio, %5 40 63 69 52 63 68 1 Number of shares outstanding at year-end. 2 Dividend as a percentage of respective year-end share price. 3 Earning per share according to segment reporting divided by the number of shares outstanding. 4 Based on the dividend proposed by the Board. 5 Dividend as a percentage of earnings per share. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 9 Share data and funding Share data and funding Skanska’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Large Cap segment. On December 31, 2019, the total share return was 56 percent and the market capitalization was SEK 89 billion. Skanska’s diversification across v­ arious Skanska share’s total return rose 56 perAB’s) holdings of Series B t­ reasury shares business streams with operations in s­ everal cent during the year, compared with 35 amounted to 8.4 m ­ illion shares, corregeographical markets and s­ egments percent increase for the SIX Portfolio sponding to 2.0 percent of c­ apital stock. strengthens the Group’s competitive Return Index. standing and has contributed to S­ kanska’s Dividend track record of good financial returns Share price and turnover Skanska’s dividend policy is to pay out ­generating attractive shareholder value In 2019, total trading in the Skanska share 40–70 percent of the profit for the year as long-term. amounted to 465 million shares (553) at a dividend to shareholders, provided that total value of SEK 88.9 billion (57.8), which the company’s overall financial ­condition Share performance and total return corresponds to an average daily turnover is stable and satisfactory. For the 2019 At the end of 2019, Skanska’s share of 1.9 million shares (2.2) or SEK 46.8 bilfinancial year, the Board proposes a div(SKAB)1 closed at SEK 211.70, an increase lion per trading day. The highest price paid idend of SEK 6.25 (6.00) per share. This of 50 percent during the year, compare in 2019 was SEK 216.00 on ­November 26 proposal represents a total d ­ ividend of with the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, Total annual shareholder and the lowest was SEK 140.85 on J­ anuary 3. SEK 2,572 M (2,462), c­ orresponding which was up 29 percent in 2019. The to 40 percent (63) of the profit for the Share capital and ownership structure year. No dividend is paid for the Parent Total annual shareholder return, 5 years Skanska’s share capital amounted to SEK ­Company’s holdings of Series B treasury 1,259,709,216 at year-end 2019, c­ onsisting shares. The total dividend amount may % of a total of 419,903,072 shares, of which change by the record date, depending on 14 19,704,715 are Series A shares and repurchases of shares and the transfer of 12 400,198,357 are Series B shares. At Decemshares to participants in Skanska’s long10 4.9% ber 31, 2019, the number of shareholders term employee ownership program, Seop. 8 5.2% was 99,134. Most of Skanska’s ­shareholders 6 are financial and i­ nstitutional organizaAnalysts 4 7.6% tions in Sweden. The largest shareholder is For a current list of the analysts who reg2 4.7% Industrivärden AB, with voting power of ularly monitor Skanska, visit group. 0 Skanska B Six Portfolio Index 24.3 percent, followed by L ­ undberg Group skanska.com/investors/skanska-share/ n Price return with v­ oting power of 12.8 p ­ ercent. At yearanalysts/. n Dividend yield end, the Parent C ­ ompany’s (Skanska 1 Bloomberg ticker SKAB:SS, Reuters quote SKAb.ST The largest shareholders in Skanska AB, ranked by voting power, December 31, 2019 Shareholders, excluding Skanska’s own holdings % of votes % of capital Industrivärden AB 24.3 7.4 Lundberg Group 12.8 5.3 Skanska employees through Seop 1 3.3 4.7 AMF Insurance & Funds 3.3 4.6 Swedbank Robur Funds 2.8 4.0 Alecta 2.7 3.8 BlackRock 1.9 2.7 Vanguard 1.7 2.5 Norges bank 1.3 1.9 SHB Funds & Life Insurance 1.2 1.7 10 largest shareholders in Skanska 55.3 38.6 other shareholders in Skanska 44.7 61.4 Total 100.0 100.0 of which shareholders in Sweden 76.8 67.0 of which shareholders abroad 23.2 33.0 1 Not treated as a unified ownership group and includes earned matching and performance shares to be delivered to the participants in the future. Source: Modular Finance Holdings 10 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Share data and funding Funding Skanska has several funding programs – work. The framework is third-party veriGreen bonds both committed bank credit facilities and fied and deemed strong and trustworthy Skanska issued its first green bond in market funding programs – which p ­ rovide by the CICERO (Center for International 2014. A second round, amounting to SEK good flexibility for temporary fl ­ uctuations Climate Research), internationally recog1 billion, was issued in 2018 to provide in the Group’s short-term liquidity and nized as a leading provider of independent ­financing for eligible green commercial help ensure long-term funding. At the reviews of green bond frameworks. and residential development projects. All end of the year, the central debt portfolio Through green financing, such as green projects funded within Skanska Green amounted to SEK 3.5 billion. Unutilized bonds and loans, Skanska leverages the Bond Framework must be aiming for credit facilities of SEK 8.8 billion comGroup’s extensive green expertise and portupper levels of certification under any of bined with available liquidity amounting folio while diversifying its investor base. the third party systems; LEED, BREEAM, to SEK 8.7 billion ensure that the Group At the end of the year, all outstanding DGNB or the Nordic Swan Ecolabel has enough financial capacity. corporate bonds (MTN) – amounting to (Svanen). The three commercial developSkanska has increasingly focused on SEK 1.0 billion – were in the form of green ment projects currently funded by green green financing for many years. Since bonds. Bilateral loans of USD 200 M are bonds and aiming to exceed those green the issue of its first green bond in 2014, also used to finance Skanska’s green proj­requirements by targeting the highest Skanska has strived to keep a majority of ects. A revolving credit facility a­ mounting LEED levels, P­ latinum or Gold, are: 2+U, the Group’s central funding eligible for to EUR 200 M is primarily designed to Seattle, USA; Epic, Malmö, Sweden; and green instruments. By the end of 2019, safe-guard financing of the Group’s green Centrum Południe 2, Warsaw, Poland. 82 percent of Skanska’s central debt conprojects. A EUR 600 M revolving credit sisted of bilateral loans or green bonds earfacility maturing in 2024 constitutes a marked for green projects in accordance back-up facility for Skanska’s funding with the Skanska Green Bond Frameneeds. Green financing 82% Percentage of total central debt that is Green according to the Skanska Green Bond Framework, or other green requirements demands. Fully funded by green bonds, office development Epic in Malmö, Sweden is targeting WELL certification – an internationally recognized building standard that puts the health and wellbeing of its tenants first. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 11 Astoria Four | New York | USA 12 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Market overview Global trends impacting the construction and project development sector Global trends such as urbanization and the focus on sustainability are driving investment in resilient infrastructure and increasing demand for sustainable facilities such as offices, homes, hospitals and schools. For Skanska, these global trends create an opportunity to build for a better society. Skanska’s ability to create value in the challenge of reducing energy use and emisEconomic development and a Group’s home markets is affected by extersions, improving resource procurement ­changing geopolitical landscape nal factors. Understanding the global and increasing the re-use of materials. Economic growth and public spending trends affecting the construction and projResource scarcity challenges h ­ umanity ­creates a growing demand for c­ onstruction ect development sector is important, as to think and act in new ways to create a solutions. In the Nordics as well as in c­ entral this allows Skanska to adjust its offering to high quality of life without j­ eopardizing Europe, growth in the construction sector meet demands from customers. The global resources and the environment. Water has been positive in recent years. Growth is trends Skanska has identified pinpoint the shortages are a threat to many of the world’s expected to remain positive in most ­markets, ever-increasing need for new and more biggest cities. Demand for reduced climate but some markets will be affected by an responsible solutions in Construction and impact is driving a need to develop sustainundersupply of labor. Project Development. able solutions in construction and project Over the last years, increased public development, and customers increasingly spending has supported growth in the USA Key market drivers for Construction demand more sustainable buildings. Effiand the level of construction investment in and Project Development ciently designed and produced b ­ uildings central Europe has improved due to greater and infrastructure provide some of the use of European Union funds. However, Urbanization and ­demo­graphic most effective means to achieve sustainthis could be affected by a slowdown in changes ability goals. Improving the environmeneconomic growth. Growing urbanization is re-shaping c­ ities tal performance of existing buildings is Increasing protectionism ­demonstrated around the world. By 2050, an average essential for meeting climate goals and is in the political landscape, including Brexit of 70 percent of the global population is increasingly prescribed in national and and trade protection measures, risk resulting expected to live and work in cities. All of regional regulation, creating business in restrictions on trade and cross-border Skanska’s markets are above that ­average, opportunities where Skanska can contri­ flows. Increased tariffs as a consequence with the strongest development taking bute to climate adaptation. can impact supply of materials and supply place in the USA and the Nordics. of labor. Increasing densification and changes in Digitalization demography drives the need for e­ fficient New technologies are increasingly available Partnership is key and flexible transport and mobility soluat an affordable costs, making new ways of The success of sustainable urban develop­ tions, affordable housing and e­ ngagement working possible and increasing efficiency ment requires a combination of ­gover­nance, with communities to create inclusive urban and cut costs. Digitalization is not only cross-sectoral cooperation and ­dialogue areas. Comprehensive investments are influencing the business models of most with representatives from the entire value being made in mass transit, energy and companies, but is also influencing consumchain, ranging from public entities, ­business water systems and other infrastructure, ers as digital services disrupt traditional partners and suppliers to private ­individuals. as well as in offices, homes, schools and processes. As a result, purchasing power is The above trends are driving important ­hospitals. growing and increasingly well-informed initiatives in the construction and p ­ roject These trends can also cause challenges in customers expect greater transparency development sector on topics such as afford­ urban areas, such as risk of limited access from the companies they interact with. able housing, sustainable growth, and city to welfare and decreasing quality of life. Today, demand for connectivity is g­ rowing. planning, battling corruption and c­ reating New technologies and improved p ­ roducts safe work environments at construction sites. Climate impact and resource scarcity are playing an increasingly important role, To meet the goals set out in the Paris with growing demand for connected soluAgreement, global greenhouse gas emistions and increased demand for quality, sions need to be radically reduced to limit functionality and design, impacting the global warming. The construction and urban spaces and buildings that Skanska project development industry faces the produces. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 13 The Moynihan Train Hall | New York City | USA Improving mass transit in New York City The Moynihan Train Hall is an essential node in New York City’s infrastructure. Every day 650,000 people pass through Penn Station. Skanska’s ongoing project to transform the landmark James A. transit hub. Skanska’s contributions have a direct impact on reviFarley Post Office Building into The Moynihan Train Hall, a new talizing regional transit, relieving pressure on the overcrowded portal for accessing trains serving the adjacent Penn Station, will Penn Station and providing access to much needed amenities expand Penn Station’s total floor space by more than 50 perfor passengers and tourists. cent. Skanska is constructing a new 21,000 square meter train In 2016, Skanska completed the first phase of the project: hall, an important step in making the Farley building fit for expanding the West End Concourse at Penn Station to link with the needs of the future. The Moynihan Train Hall will house the historic James A. Farley Post Office Building and opening up ­passenger facilities, including waiting areas, ticketing areas the building on street level to improve pedestrian access. This for the Long Island Rail Road and Amtrak, security and retail improved passenger circulation and capacity for nine of the spaces, as well as expanded access to nine platforms and 17 station’s 12 train platforms. tracks serving the Long Island Rail Road and Amtrak. Skanska also performed historic restorations to the original The centerpiece of the building will be a 28-meter high façade. Besides being an important node in the mass transit barrel-vaulted skylight above the former post office’s historic system, Penn station’s Farley building is also an important steel trusses. landmark. Maintenance and retrofitting is an important part Farley Building’s Moynihan Train Hall is critical to the New of a building’s life and of keeping the urban environment York Governor’s comprehensive plan to transform the iconic appealing and safe. Penn Station and its surrounding buildings into an outstanding 14 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial targets Financial targets 2016–2020 Skanska’s business plan for the 2016 to 2020 period sets financial targets that best reflect the profitability of operations and show the Group’s financial capacity for investments and growth. Operating margin Return on capital employed1,2 Return on equity2 – Construction – Project Development Target Target Target ≥3.5% ≥10% ≥18% Outcome 2019 Outcome 2019 Outcome 2019 2.4% 10.3% 21.4% Operating margin Construction Return on capital Return employed on capital Project employed Development Project Development Return on equity Return on capital employed Operating margin Construction Project Development Return on equity % % % 4.0 20 30 3.5 Target 25 3.0 15 2.5 20 Target 2.0 10 Target 15 1.5 10 1.0 5 0.5 5 0.0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating margin in the Construction business The Project Development operations continued to In 2019, return on equity amounted to 21.4 percent, stream amounted to 2.4 percent for 2019. Underperform on a high level, topping the target of at and was above target of at least 18 percent. lying profitability has improved, as a result of a least 10 percent. Commercial Property Developstrategy that include improving the performance ment had yet another strong year, with a new of current projects through more proactive risk all-time-high in gain of sales from divestments of management, a stronger commercial focus and SEK 4.2 billion. increased cost efficiency. Adjusted net debt3 Limit Outcome 2019 -9.0 + 3.2 Skanska’s financial position remains strong. As of January 1, 2019, Skanska has a new target measuring financial strength by comparing to limits set by the Board of Directors. SEK billion in adjusted interestbearing SEK billion net receivables(+)/net debt(–) 1 New definition of return in Commercial Property Development business stream, effective as of January 1, 2019. 2 According to segment reporting. 3 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt excluding restricted cash, lease liabilities and interest-bearing net pension liabilities. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 15 121 Seaport Business Plan| Boston | USA Business plan 2016–2020 Profit with Purpose –Skanska’s Business Plan 2016–2020 aims to increase shareholder value through building for a better society. 16 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business Plan 2016–2020 The Skanska Business Plan 2016–2020 has three focus areas key to Aiming to create sustainable solutions and future the aspirations set for 2020, with actions centering on developing Sustainability is grounded in Skanska values and integrated into the Group’s people; advancing market-making abilities to improve Skanska’s way of working, which enables Skanska to deliver b ­ etter service to customers; and increasing the performance of operasolutions for customers, drive operational efficiency, manage tions and support functions. risks and support society in key ways. Skanska’s ambition to be a leader within sustainability helps create a sustainable future for ­customers, communities and employees, as well as delivers value for shareholders. Skanska’s most material sustainability topics Market can be summarized in five sustainability areas: Health and Safety, Making ­Ethics, Green, Community Investment, and Diversity and Inclusion. Further information is provided in the Sustainability Report al Gr tion e on pages 56-85. Peo eat Profit era llenc Op xce ple Restore Construction profitability with Purpose E and maintain high activity in Project Development The main focus in 2019, has been to improve profitability in Construction and continuing to create value through Project Develop­ment. In Construction, the strategy includes a focusing of Aspirations 2020 operations, a simplified and decentralized structure and reduced • Industry-leading total shareholder return risk through more selective bidding. In 2019 results improved – • Recognized as a preferred partner when it comes to creating demonstrating that Skanska is on track to improve profitability in solutions that meet customers’ needs Construction. In Project Development, Skanska not only ­delivered • Living Skanska’s values and recognized as a value-driven comstrong results by realizing gains from the portfolio during the pany building for a better society year, but is also creating additional value in excess of what is being • An injury-free and ethical environment divested that will be realized over the coming years. • The most attractive employer in the industry • A company fostering One Skanska and high-performing teams • Improved operational efficiency 2020 priorities • Balanced value creation between C­ onstruction and Project Increased commercial focus, cost efficiency and a continuous Development review of all operations in Construction to further improve profitability and for continued value creation in Project Generating value for shareholders Development are among the Group’s priorities for 2020. Skanska must create shareholder value in a responsible way and Commercial Property Development will continue to grow contribute to society at large. Given the business that Skanska is in its operations in Los Angeles, USA, and BoKlok will also and the size of its operations, Skanska can have a considerable and continue to grow its operations in the UK. Driving a pro­ positive impact on society as part of its profitable business. active safety culture will also be a the top priority for 2020. The five-year business plan is based on the view that profit and The work to develop Skanska’s next business plan, to purpose are interlinked, with each strengthening the other. Profit is take effect in January 2021, is underway. The plan will build needed to deliver Skanska’s purpose of building for a better s­ ociety, on Skanska’s long-term foundation: Skanska’s values and and advancing with that purpose contributes to Skanska’s profit. purpose of building for a better society. Skanska has high ambitions for both profit and purpose, and for leveraging them to create value for the Group’s shareholders. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 17 Business Plan 2016–2020 Great People Skanska wants to be acknowledged as the most attractive employer in the industry, offering an inclusive place to work with dedicated colleagues in an open and high performing environment with strong values. Skanska must continuously attract new make the most of team diversity to achieve engagement, now and in the future. The ­talent and skills, and must fully leverage stronger performance together. Skanska Top Executive Program is run in the diversity of the Group’s people to procollaboration with IMD in S­ witzerland. vide sophisticated solutions for customers Broadening skillsets and experiences In 2019, Skanska invested further in the and society. improves performance Group’s senior leaders by re-launching Attracting, developing and r­ etaining Employees are given opportunities to this program, improving it in such ways talented people is key to Skanska’s longundertake new, challenging assignments as incorporating more external perspecterm success. Skanska continues to make in different functions, business units and tives. For Skanska employees earlier in ­positive progress with this. Skanska’s geographies. Both longand short-term their careers and ready for management employees confirm in the annual s­ urvey assignments are important to increase roles, the Skanska Stretch program aims to that they have good opportunities to knowledge-sharing and collaboration. build knowledge and the ability to lead in develop and learn. Important advantages an international environment. for Skanska are the Group’s deeply embedSecuring value-driven leaders ded values, many professional development Skanska has for many years a well impleEmployee ownership shows opportunities and strong purpose – all mented and solid process for ­performance ­engagement ­factors increasingly sought by job seekers and talent management, including a robust Seop, the Skanska employee ownership and employees. and fact-based succession planning, strucprogram, increases the Group’s attractive­ tured resource planning and employee ness and improves its ability to recruit An organization fostering inclusion development and career planning, starting and retain people. The program provides For many years, Skanska has had a clear at business unit level all the way to review employees with the opportunity to invest focus on becoming a more inclusive orgameetings with Skanska’s Group Leaderin Skanska and encourages interest in nization as it is essential to ensure that ship Team. what drives the share performance. Seop ­talented employees remain and develop Skanska has two Group flagship p ­ rograms also creates incentives to contribute to their skills within the company. This focus to develop the value-driven leaders needed ­Skanska’s performance through matching enables the Group to better attract and to steer the organization and c­ reate an shares and shares based on business unit develop a more diverse workforce and inclusive culture with a high level of performance. 2019 employee survey 80% of employees recommend Skanska as a good place to work, surpassing the industry average of 70 percent. 77% of employees recognize that Skanska provides good opportunities for learning and development. Source: 2019 Skanska Group-wide employee survey 18 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business Plan 2016–2020 Operational Excellence By bringing the best of Skanska’s skills and experience, and by investing in continuous improvements, Skanska can deliver the right solutions for its customers and the best value for its shareholders. Skanska is focused on continuously throughout the execution of the p ­ roject, tise, innovations, R&D and best practices im­proving all aspects of the Group’s allow problems to be solved ­earlier, improve­ across the company. ­operations. This means ensuring that the ments to be made and project costs to be right systems and efficient processes are reduced. More broadly, greater attention Focus on innovation and sustainability in place, along with relevant resources. is being paid to management of the design Building Information Modeling (BIM) is Equally important is that all employees process, commercial terms and changes in becoming an increasingly important tool have the proper skills. Increased work on project scope, while increased employee for encouraging innovation and increasing digital methods, data and sustainability training creates teams with the e­ xpertise productivity. Construction robots, drones, is supporting further gains in operational needed to make the right decisions in 3D printing and other automation will ­efficiency while providing better customer ­project planning, procurement, design increasingly improve construction p ­ rocess solutions. and execution. efficiency. Digital focus areas include datadriven production optimization, proactive Improved planning, procurement, Increased accountability and efficiency risk management and improved project design and execution of projects Digital collaboration is increasingly improgress monitoring, while democratized Skanska has a continuous focus on improvportant for developing innovative ­solutions, production data and provides business ing construction project e­ xecution. Based and new technology is required to c­ reate insights for better decision-making. A on “sweet spot” analysis, business units are more efficient construction operations. digital approach can also help Skanska pursue projects in sectors and g­ eographies Digital capabilities are being enhanced to advance further in sustainability, includin which the Group has proven strengths increase accountability and efficiency, and ing improvements in safety and reduced and records of success. A stricter bid stratto strengthen collaboration and knowledge ­carbon emissions. egy and further risk m ­ anagement efforts, sharing. It is key to have teams with diverincluding continual risk m ­ onitoring sified skills to fully capitalize on the experNew technology enabling collaboration throughout the value chain The Computer Automatic ­Virtual Environment (CAVE) room at Skanska ­Finland’s Helsinki office enables detailed levels of visual ­collaboration through a virtual reality system that displays images on walls and the floor. Interactive touch screens allow ­Skanska’s project teams to ­collaborate with customers, authorities and designers, solving problems together in order to improve project delivery. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 19 Business Plan 2016–2020 Market Making Skanska seeks to be a trusted partner that contributes to customers’ success. The Group takes the initiative to provide customers with solutions that leverage Skanska’s sustainability leadership and combined resources and expertise. Skanska aspires to be recognized as procurement provides great business Taking part in the public debate the ­preferred ­partner when it comes to opportunities for Skanska. In all of its home markets, Skanska engages ­creating solutions that meet customers’ with local and national governments and needs. Knowledge about its customers is Customer collaboration and stakeholders from the entire value chain a prerequisite for becoming a p ­ roactive sustainability initiatives to advance solutions that benefit s­ ociety in ­market maker, and Skanska engages in Customers and society face ­increasingly important ways. The ­construction s­ ector ­structured and enhanced long-term colla­ complex challenges which are d ­ riving represents 40 percent of global energy-­ boration with customers as well as suppliers demand for Skanska’s expertise in designrelated carbon emissions and therefore, and subcontractors. ing functional and cost-saving solutions Skanska is engaged in how to improve to meet their evolving needs. I­ ntensified solutions to reduce carbon emissions. In Early Contractor Involvement ­customer collaboration and a clear focus on conver­sations with customers and p ­ artners, Collaboration based on a close dialogue, responsibility for sustainability is b ­ ecoming Skanska can push them towards taking a a common vision and trust is essential in even more important in providing the more ambitious stance on sustainability understanding customers’ evolving needs innovative solutions needed to go beyond issues. and challenges, including market trends Skanska’s actual construction commitIn the Swedish political on h ­ ousing, and government priorities. ments and to improve society. To Skanska, Skanska pursues changes through its Skanska achieves this through early and helping c­ ustomer’s achieve s­ ustainability expertise and insights along with p ­ olicy ongoing customer engagement or partgoals is a p ­ riority and a powerful oppor­ solutions that will help creating a more nering and by taking part in larger s­ ocietal tunity to provide c­ ustomers with new resilaccessible market. conversations. Public customers r­ epresent ient and low-carbon s­ olutions that help For example, during Climate Week NYC more than 50 percent of Skanska’s Conthem advance in their climate ambitions. 2019, Skanska joined with the World Green struction revenue, and influencing these This is also an important aspect in r­ educing Building Council to host a dialogue regardcustomers to increasingly demand sustain­ ­Skanska’s own carbon footprint, and ing the need to limit carbon emissions. able solutions and seek added value in becoming more attractive to partner with. Sthlm 01 | Stockholm | Sweden 20 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Market Making Helping customers achieve climate goals Skanska initiated and co-developed a carbon calculator, EC3, enabling Microsoft’s headquarters to achieve new levels of carbon reductions. Now an open-acceess tool, Skanska’s innovation has enabled more informed design decisions that reduce the carbon embodied in construction. Microsoft’s global office portfolio ­consists impact further. For Skanska, who decided of more than 3 million square meters of alongside Microsoft and other initial partspace. Among Microsoft’s top p ­ riorities ners to make the tool publicly available, is reducing the carbon emissions of this tool is a means to drive sustainability ­buildings to support the company’s across the construction sector by increas­carbon reduction targets. ing transparency in carbon reporting and With Microsoft and other initial reduction. partners, Skanska developed a solution “Through EC3, Microsoft aims to for calculating and reducing carbon reduce embodied carbon emissions from emissions embodied in construction – the redevelopment of our headquarters the Embodied Carbon in Construction by 30 percent. With some materials, we’ve » Through EC3, we Calculator (EC3). “The construction sector hasn’t been able to reduce emissions with no cost premiums,” says Katie. aim to reduce embodied focused so much on sustainability, and Partnering to meet the most complithe necessary data hasn’t been available cated challenges has proven to be a very carbon emissions from in an easy-to-consume way. When successful way of working and it creates the redevelopment of Skanska presented EC3, we thought EC3 value both for customers and for Skanska was perfect for our needs. We wanted to as a company. our head­quarters by help fund its development and pilot it to “For us, sustainability is a core principle 30 percent. « help improve this tool so it benefits the entire industry,” says Katie Ross, Senior – In our building projects, sustainability has the same priority as the traditional Katie Ross, Senior Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager at Microsoft. focus areas of cost and schedule. We at Microsoft EC3 measures the carbon footprint rely on trusted partners to help us create of materials and compares materials in amazing and highly sustainable workorder to identify the most ­sustainable places for our employees. We want to be solutions for a project. Using this tool, working with partners who can push us Skanska can help companies achieve as much as we push them – that makes ambitious climate goals and advance the us all better and lets us all move faster”, Group’s own efforts to reduce climate Katie concludes. Embodied Carbon in Construction Calculator (EC3) The extraction, manufacturing and transport of ­building materials represent major sources of carbon emissions. EC3 is a groundbreaking ­database-driven tool that calculates and compares the carbon footprint of materials based on the environmental ­product declarations (EPDs) available from ­suppliers. Skanska conceived of EC3, which it co-created with support from Microsoft and other partners. Skanska then turned to University of washington Carbon Leader­ship Forum to lead development of EC3 as a public, open-­access tool, with support from over 50 industy partners. Publicly available for use in the USA from fall 2019. Skanska will utilize EC3 in all further commercial development projects. The Group is also piloting EC3 in multiple construction projects, supporting both Skanska and the Group’s customers in achieving respective carbon targets. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 21 Business model Business model Skanska generates value through the thousands of projects executed each year, in line with Skanska’s ambition to deliver an industry-leading total shareholder return. The scale and diversity of the Group’s operations produce operational and financial synergies that create further value. Skanska’s operations are based in b­ usiness bring together construction and project Synergies provide competitive units that have extensive knowledge of develop­ment units at an early stage, which advantages their respective markets, customers and reinforces a strong customer focus while These operational and financial s­ ynergies suppliers. These local units are backed by optimizing use of the Group’s collective strengthen Skanska’s ability to deliver for Skanska’s brand and financial strength, technical and financial resources. customers and enhance opportunities for as well as Group-wide expertise and the Skanska’s Construction business stream generating greater value. This type of colla­ Skanska values. does not tie up capital as it operates with borations improves the ability to create free working capital. The free working innovative solutions, to maximize market Operational and financial synergies ­capital combined with profits generated by opportunities, to improve cost control, to Operational synergies are p ­ rimarily the Group, along with the Group’s ability to strengthen the Group’s financial position generated through the local, specialleverage its balance sheet to b ­ orrow money, and to enhance returns. ized expertise contained in the business enable the financing of project development, units. Units in the same business stream which generates a return on invested capital. often colla­borate to leverage resources These investments also create new contracts and ­capabilities, and to share best pracfor the Construction stream, generating tices. In addition, development projects ­further profits. Business model The free working capital in Construction combined with the profits generated by the Group enable the financing of investments in Project Development Revenue Investment ◀ ◀ from external opportunities External ◀ ◀ customers Construction Project Development financing Revenue with associated contract profits ◀ Internal contracts are generated by investments in Development gains are generated and are realized upon divestment Project Development ◀ Operating margin ◀ Return on capital employed ◀ ◀ Return on equity Dividend 22 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business streams Business streams Skanska’s operations consist of Construction, Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. The business units within these streams collaborate in various ways, creating operational and financial synergies that generate increased value. Construction Residential ­Development Commercial Property ­Development Market drivers and key trends Market drivers and key trends Market drivers and key trends GDP growth – Strong correlation with Household confidence indicator – ­Potential Economic growth – Economic growth growth in the Construction business stream. customers’ views on future pay raises, increases companies’ recruitment needs, Public investment – Infrastructure invest­ ­housing costs, interest rates and credit which drives activity in the leasing market. ments are largely driven by the public sector. ­supply affect decisions on whether to buy. Urbanization – Increases demand for Urbanization – Urbanization is a major Urbanization – Leading to increased offices and logistics centers close to cities. driver of infrastructure investments in areas ­demand for homes. Cost-efficient location – Energy-efficient, such as highways, bridges, mass transit Shortage of housing – Housing production green premises in attractive areas are in airports and water treatment works. has lagged behind population growth, demand and are contributing to relocation. resulting in an undersupply – more homes Attractive investment – Long-term tenants need to be built. in high-quality properties offer attractive returns for investors. Countries Countries Countries Sweden, Norway, Finland, Poland, Czech Sweden, Norway, Finland, Poland, Czech Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Republic, Slovakia, UK, USA Republic, UK Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, USA Revenue Revenue Revenue share of Group,% share of Group, % share of Group, % 84 7 9 159.6 12.5 17.9 SEK bn SEK bn SEK bn Operating income Operating income Operating income share of Group, % share of Group, % share of Group, % 46 14 40 3.8 1.2 3.3 SEK bn SEK bn SEK bn Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 23 Sthlm New | Stockholm | Sweden Construction Modern hospitals, bridges, schools, mass-transit and other key facilities are necessary for society to thrive. Construction – the largest business stream in terms of revenue and people, leverages Skanska’s local and Group-wide expertise and resources to enhance communities. 24 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business streams | Construction Targets and actions With a stronger focus on risk m ­ anagement, Market outlook for 2020 cost control and project e­ xecution, under­In Construction, the overall market activity – Business Plan 2016–2020 lying profitability improved in C ­ onstruction is still high but with fierce competition. leading to a substantially improved o ­ perating In Sweden, the civil market and the non••Enhanced risk management margin reaching 2.4 percent for the year. residential market is strong, although the ••Operational efficiency landscape is competitive. The S­ wedish ••Operating margin ≥3.5% Major events 2019 residential building market is slow. In A significant performance recovery in ­Norway, the outlook for the civil market ••Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) Europe and the USA and a continued high remains positive, but with significant comand enhanced focus on market level of performance in the Nordics were petition in new bids. The n ­ on-residential making the main drivers to the improvement of the market also benefits from increased p ­ ublic ••Continued focus on free working underlying profitability in Construction. investments, while investments in the resi­ capital These are the results of the strategy that dential building market are slightly lower. include improved performance of current The overall market situation in F ­ inland projects through more proactive risk manis stable except for a slowdown in the agement, stronger commercial focus and residen­tial building market. increased cost efficiency. In the UK, Brexit is still limiting i­ nvestOperating income amounted to SEK 3.8 ments in the non-residential ­building ­market billion (1.1), with a corresponding operatand civil market to a certain degree. In ing margin of 2.4 percent (0.7). The operCentral Europe there is a high a­ ctivity ating income include proceeds of SEK level in general and c­­ onstruction related 196 M related to awarded damages by the ­inflation is high, causing postpone­ment Court of Appeal in the legal case Follo EPC of new projects coming to the ­market in Sample of competitors Oslo S. A goodwill impairment charge of ­especially Poland. SEK –367 M in a part of the UK operations In USA the overall market is strong. The ••Balfour Beatty impacted negatively. The operating income civil construction market remains good, ••Ferrovial in Sweden was in relation to the comparable although competition is intense, and the period negati­vely impacted by fewer projbuilding construction market is strong in ••Granite ect completions with high profitability and sectors such as aviation, education, data ••Grupo ACS by weaker performance in the residential centers and healthcare. ••Hochtief ­construction operations in Stockholm and in the asphalt operations. The comparaBusiness operations in 2020 ••NCC ble period includes restructuring charges Continuous review of all operations ••Peab and project ­write-downs in Poland and the includes the following main priorities for ••Strabag USA, goodwill impairment charge in the Construction business stream in 2020: USA, but also positive claims resolutions • Improve work site safety ••Veidekke in the USA and the effects from pension • Enhance and improve project valuation ••Vinci curtailments in the UK affected operating and controls income. Total net impact of SEK –2.3 bil• Improve contract management lion. • Focus on cost control and continuously review the performance in all parts of the operations and act where needed. Construction SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenue 159,579 157,894 150,050 138,001 140,648 Operating income 3,772 1,099 1,205 3,546 3,874 Operating margin, % 2.4 0.7 0.8 2.6 2.8 Free working capital, SEK bn 26.4 25.6 21.8 22.5 20.5 Operating cash flow 4,849 3,275 2,136 4,562 6,803 Order bookings, SEK bn 145.8 151.7 151.8 170.2 122.1 Order backlog, SEK bn 185.4 192.0 188.4 196.3 158.2 Number of employees 33,225 37,006 39,002 40,991 42,193 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 25 Business streams | Construction Construction Order backlog, total SEK 185 bn Customer structure Revenue, total SEK 160 bn Mdr kr % 200 6 5 160 4 120 3 Type of product n Government , 56% Geographic area 80 n Building construction, 48% n Institutional 2, 14%2 n Nordics ,37% n Civil construction, 40% n Corp. Industrial, 6%1 n Europe, 20% 40 n Residential, 7% n Commercial Development, 11% n USA, 43% n 0 Residential Development, 7% n Service1, 5% n Other, 6% -1 0 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Facilities management or maintenance contract. 2 Mainly private healthcare and educational institutions. Rörelsemarginal Intäkter Revenue and operating margin 185 SEK bn % 200 6 5 160 4 120 3 80 2 SEK billion, order backlog. 1 40 0 0 -1 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue, rolling 12 months Operating margin, rolling 12 months Operating margin Revenue Value creation in Construction Skanska’s Construction business stream builds and renovates Skanska to take on projects for international customers with buildings, industrial facilities, infrastructure and homes. It high expectations for quality and execution. also executes service-related assignments, in areas such as With a strong risk-assessment focus during the tender facility operations and maintenance. stage, Skanska concentrates on securing the right projects In keeping with Skanska’s business model, contracting where there is a balance between risk levels and expected assignments are also executed for Skanska’s Project Developmargins. Skanska is increasing the share of contracts in which ment operations. This collaboration generates synergies for customers value service, capability and project approach – in the Group. addition to price – when evaluating tenders. Skanska’s clear Project and synergy opportunities are also generated focus on sustainability – including Safety, Ethics, Green, thanks to the financial expertise and resources within the Community Investment, and Diversity and Inclusion – is also Group. A combination of financial strength and global a factor that strengthens Skanska’s offering to customers. expertise in Construction and Project Development enables 26 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Bayonne Bridge | New York | USA Construction Enabling global trade to reach new heights At the gateway to the largest cargo seaport on the US East first time to reach Maher Terminals, Port Newark Container Coast stands the Bayonne Bridge, a grand steel arch over Terminal, Global Container Terminals New York, and APM the Kill Van Kull waterway that was the world’s longest of Terminals. its kind when it opened in 1931. Skanska, along with a joint venture partner, made this With the recent debut of an expanded Panama Canal, highly technical plan a reality. Adding to the challenge was this landmark bridge was at risk of becoming a bottleneck maintaining the safe traffic over the bridge throughout the to global commerce. The new class of enormous container six years of construction. Meticulous planning and careful ships, called Post-Panamax vessels, designed to maximize execution were integral to the project. the canal’s increased capacity would not be able to pass Cargo volumes through the Port of New York and New below the bridge. A bold solution was developed: raise Jersey have increased by about 8 percent and vessel sizes the roadway within the existing arch by an additional 19.5 have grown since the elevated Bayonne Bridge opened. meters, or 42 percent, allowing these larger ships for the Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 27 Glasörten Boklok | Limhamn | Sweden Residential Development To help make people’s lives better and easier, Skanska develops homes that are well-designed, responsibly produced, reasonably priced and in good locations. Residential Development together with the Construction business stream delivers these homes in optimal ways. 28 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business streams | Residential Development Targets and actions – Underlying operating margin for Resoperating margin remained at a solid 10 idential Development business stream percent thanks to strong execution and a Business Plan 2016–2020 remained at a solid 10 percent for 2019 as well-diversified portfolio. a result of strong execution and a wellDuring 2019, Skanska expanded BoKlok, ••More selective in project starts diversified portfolio in various segments Skanska’s low-cost homes concept, to the ••Reviewing cost structure and geographies. UK market, supporting the diversification ••Design to cost of the portfolio. Major events in 2019 ••Increased capital efficiency Profitability within Residential DevelopMarket outlook for 2020 ment remained on a good level. The SwedThe Swedish residential market for new ish residential new-built market gradually developments is improving slightly as improved as activity and confidence in confidence regarding housing prices is the market picked-up. During the year, recovering and transaction activity is 3,407 (4,480) homes were started and increasing. In Norway the market situ3,853 (3,653) were sold. Operations were ation is stable, while the Finnish market adapted to a new normal in the Swedish is slower. The Central European market market in which customers make their is stable. Common for all markets is the Sample of competitors purchase decisions closer to project comchallenge with high construction costs pletion. and long zoning processes. ••Bonava Operating income amounted to SEK 1.2 billion (1.5) and includes a n­ egative Business operations in 2020 ••DOM Development impact of SEK –101 M in a goodwill Skanska will continue to adapt its Residen­ ••Finep impairment charge in Norway due to tial Development operations to current ••JW Construction lower volumes than previously expected. market environment in which c­ ustomers The operating margin amounted to make their purchase decisions closer to ••JM 9.6 percent (14.0), where the c­ omparable project completion. This include activities ••Peab period includes a larger positive effect to improve capital efficiency. In addition, ••YIT from land divestment gains and release BoKlok will continue to grow its operaof provisions related to completion of tions in the UK market. projects in the Nordics. The underlying 7,130 homes under construction Residential Development SEK M 2019 2017 2016 2015 Revenue 12,483 13,237 13,264 12,298 Operating income 1,195 1,716 1,605 1,174 Operating margin, % 9.6 13.0 12.1 9.5 Investments -9,437 -11,093 -9,148 -6,675 Divestments 11,793 11,773 7,517 8,630 Operating cash flow from business operations 1 2,702 1,154 -1,210 1,509 Capital employed, average, SEK bn 13.0 12.7 11.6 9.3 Return on capital employed, %2 9.8 15.4 17.1 14.4 Number of employees 551 482 434 389 1 Before taxes, financing activities and dividends. 2 A definition is provided in Note 43. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 29 8 000 90 4 000 7 000 80 6 000 70 3 000 Business streams | Residential Development 60 5 000 50 2 000 4 000 40 3 000 30 1 000 2 000 20 1 000 10 0 Residential 0 Development kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 0 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sålda Startade Sålda i produktion Osålda i produktion Osålda färdigställda Försäljningsgrad Homes under construction and unsold completed Homes sold and started Mdr kr % Homes % 20 Homes 16 14 9,000 15 100 5,000 12 8,000 90 10 80 4,000 7,000 10 5 70 6,000 8 60 3,000 5,000 0 6 50 4,000 -5 2,000 4 40 3,000 30 2 -10 2,000 20 1,000 -15 1,0000 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Sold under construction n Unsold completed Sold, rolling 12 months n Unsold under construction Sales rate Started, rolling 12 months Sold Started SoldRörelsemarginal under construction Unsold under construction Unsold completed Sales rate Intäkter Revenue and operating margin Operating income, total SEK 1.2 bn SEK bn % Geographic area 16 20 n Nordics, 87% 14 15 o /w Sweden, 56% 12 10 n Europe, 13% 10 5 8 0 6 4 -5 2 -10 0 -15 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue, rolling, 12 months Operating margin, rolling, 12 months Operating margin Revenue Value creation in Residential Development Generating value in Residential Development begins with Value 5. Customer care an analysis of macroeconomic and demographic trends. Where is the growth, who are the target groups and what 4. S ales and construction do they need and want? Before making land purchases, Skanska analyzes local 3. M  arketing and preconstruction engineering conditions in detail. Then begins a step-by-step process aimed at ultimately offering customers the best possible value. During the planning stage, Skanska establishes 2. P  lanning and a framework in close collaboration with the municipal permitting authorities. Based on the potential offered by the site’s surroundings, an attractive neighborhood is designed and built in close collaboration between Development 1. Concept and and Construction units on the basis of the residents’ analysis needs and environmental and community considerations. Land purchase Advance booking Move-in Skanska’s own sales organization then markets the new before production start homes to the right target groups. 5–7 years Time 30 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Glasörten Boklok | Limhamn | Sweden Residential Development Expanding the concept of ­sustainable, quality homes for all BoKlok, jointly owned by Skanska and IKEA, provides Since its launch in 1996, BoKlok – “live smart” in Swedish space-saving, functional quality housing at a price that – has developed almost 12,000 homes in Sweden, Norway enables more people to afford a comfortable home. The and Finland. use of standardized designs and large-volume i­ndustrialized In 2019, BoKlok expanded into the UK, having identified ­production result in cost-effectiveness and high-­quality this as a market with high demand for quality homes for control. Sustainability is at heart of the BoKlok concept, people with an average income. The initial focus is on the which is why the homes are made of timber – the most South Coast, Southampton to Brighton and the West, North ­climate-smart building material. Cheltenham to North Somerset. These areas have people The pre-fabricated modules are built indoors in dry and in need of low-cost home ownership as well as affordable safe conditions, enabling high quality, low and predictable land. BoKlok UK is in dialogue with both municipalities costs and minimum waste, before being transported to and private land owners. Most of the homes will be for the construction site for assembly. In 2019, BoKlok began market sale while a portion will be sold to municipalities equipping all of its new apartment projects in Sweden with and ­housing associations to be part of their social housing solar panels, which will help people reduce their energy schemes. costs and carbon emissions while providing an easy way to live more sustainably. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 31 Visionary | Prague | Chech Republic Commercial Property Development Skanska develops environmentally efficient offices and properties that are flexible and support tentants’ well-being and creativity. Collaborating with the Construction business stream helps produce the best solutions for customers and the greatest value for Skanska. 32 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business streams | Commercial Property Development Targets and actions Gains from property divestments reached Market outlook for 2020 a new all-time high, reaching more than Vacancy rates for office space in most of – Business Plan 2016–2020 SEK 4.4 billion, including joint ventures. the Nordic and Central European cities In 2019, Skanska expanded its US operawhere Skanska has operations are stable. ••Increase project activity tions to a fifth city, Los Angeles. In Sweden vacancy rates are low and rents ••Increase landbank are high. Demand for office space is strong ••Drive cost efficiency Major events in 2019 in Poland and in other parts of Central The high level of investments, leasing and Europe as well. In USA, demand from ten••Controlled expansion divestments continued during 2019 supants is good in Boston and S­ eattle, while ported by favorable market conditions, somewhat weaker in ­Washington, D.C. strong leasing momentum and very strong and Houston’s Energy Corridor. M ­ odern executions. By the end of the year Skanska properties with high quality t­ enants had 42 ongoing projects. Gains from are in demand from property ­investors, divesting 17 property projects reached an ­resulting in attractive v­ aluations for these all-time high of SEK 4.4 billion including properties. Investor appetite remains joint ventures, with all three geographies strong in USA, Central Europe and the contributing to this success. For example: ­Nordics, especially S­ weden, but the n­ umber Sample of competitors • Skanska sold a 90 percent interest in the of shortlisted investors in transactions are Bank of America Tower office property fewer and more selective regarding invest••Boston Properties in Houston, Texas, USA for USD 373 M, ment objects. Yield l­ evels in Sweden and in about SEK 3.5 billion USA have likely bottomed out. C ­ ommon ••Echo investment • In Poland, Skanska sold a p­ ortfolio for all markets is the challenge with ••Fabege of three office buildings located in increasing construction costs. ••Ghelamco ­Wroclaw and Krakow for EUR 214 M, about SEK 2.3 billion Business operations in 2020 ••Hines • Skanska sold the office property WorkSkanska will continue the high a­ ctivity ••NCC place Oo in Oslo, Norway for NOK 1.3 in Commercial Property D ­ ­evelopment, ••Trammell Crow billion, about SEK 1.5 billion. which include priorities such as to improve capital efficiency and secure future pipe••Vasakronan In 2019, a total of 15 projects were started, line of projects. In 2020, Commercial spread across all geographies. L ­ easing Property Development will also c­ ontinue activity remained at a high level with to grow its operations in Los Angeles, USA. 421,000 square meters leased during the year. Unrealized gains, excluding properties divested according to segment reporting, totaled SEK 8.2 billion by the end of the year. Commercial Property Development SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenue 17,850 16,271 11,440 10,226 9,034 Operating income 3,287 3,069 2,714 2,336 1,947 of  which gain from divestments of properties 1 4,275 4,005 2,879 3,111 2,564 Investments -12,946 -11,452 -10,716 -8,364 -8,826 Divestments 13,713 15,275 9,341 9,043 9,914 Operating cash flow from business operations 2 -1,063 3,984 -3,119 -687 917 Capital employed, SEK bn 34.5 26.7 25 19.9 17 Return on capital employed, %3 10.5 12.3 15.5 14.8 15.6 Number of employees 427 414 389 364 344 1 Additional gain included in eliminations was 240 321 197 173 190 2 Before taxes, financial activities and dividends. 3 A s of January 1, 2019, return will be based on yearly earnings and not on successive value creation. A definition is provided in Note 43. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 33 1 0 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 15 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Business Streams | Commercial Property Development 10 Mark 5 Pågående projekt Färdigställda projekt Commercial 0 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1Property Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1Development Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Realiserade resultat, rullande 12 månader Intäkter från fastighetsförsäljningar, rullande 12 månader Rörelseresultat från fastighetsförsäljningar, rullande 12 månader Revenue and operating income from property divestments Unrealized and realized gains Sek bn Sek bn 20 10 9 15 8 7 6 10 5 4 5 3 2 1 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenuefrom n Revenue from divestments, divestments, R-12rolling 12 months Unrealized gains: n Land n Ongoing projects n Completed projects Operating income from divestments, rolling 12 months Land Realized gains, rolling 12 months Operating income from divestments, R-12 Ongoing projects Completed projects Capital employed, total SEK 34.5 bn Leasing, total 421,000 sq m Realized gains, R-12 8.2 SEK billion, unrealized gains, excluding properties divested Geographic area Geographic area according to segment reporting. n Nordics,34% n Nordics,32% n Europe, 28% n Europe, 35% n USA, 38% n USA, 33% Value creation in Commercial Property Development The development of commercial projects is a continuous process Value 5. Divestment with clearly defined phases. The average development cycle from 4. P  roperty management project conception to completion is five to seven years. All acquisitions of land are preceded by macroeconomic and local market analyses. A major step in value creation is taken when the zoning plan is approved for undeveloped land. The 3. Construction and leasing design is based on previous Skanska experience and adjusted to local market demands, aimed at creating compelling premises for tenants and property investors as well as enabling efficient construction execution in a close collaboration between Develop­ 2. Design and pre-construction ment and Construction units. A successful leasing process usually begins in connection with the start of construction, with most leases signed before construction is completed. The construction projects are carried out by Skanska’s local construction units. 1. Building permit and zoning Property management can add further value to the property. All projects are developed with divestment as the ultimate goal. Divestment occurs when Skanska has added maximum value to 5–7 years Time the project within the Group’s competency areas. 34 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Bank of America Tower | Houston | USA Commercial Property Development Houston’s green community hub To maximize its prime downtown location, Bank of ­America In 2019, Skanska divested a 90 percent interest in the Bank Tower has a two-story atrium that uniquely links the street of America Tower office property in Houston, Texas, USA, for level with Houston’s underground pedestrian network. Home USD 373 M, about SEK 3.5 billion, to an affiliate of Beacon to a culinary market, this vibrant community hub brings Capital Partners. This is Skanska’s largest ever divestment in ­people together through culture and cuisine. terms of square meters. The building will use 25 percent less The Bank of America Tower offers 72,500 square meters energy than typical facilities and is one of the world’s largest of contemporary office space in Houston’s Central Business buildings certified to LEED Platinum v4. District. Tenants include Bank of America, Waste ManageConstruction of the Bank of America Tower began in the ment, Winston and Strawn, Quantum Energy Partners and second quarter of 2017 and was completed in the second Skanska. The property features an open-air community quarter of 2019. Ownership of the property was transferred hub that includes a full-service restaurant and a culinary in the fourth quarter 2019. market with seven chef-driven concepts and a cocktail bar. Tenants also have access to The Assembly, a state-of-the-art conference and private events center that features three meeting venues. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 35 A trusted long-term partner for investors Niam and Skanska have built a partnership that encompasses 14 buildings in six cities. When Niam decided to enter Poland, this relationship was vital as the company could depend on Skanska’s strong record in the Nordic market. Niam has been a business partner of Skanska Over the years, Niam has acquired 14 propfor many years. The company manages real erties from Skanska. Following years of investestate funds with investments in Sweden, ment in the Nordics, Niam decided to enter the ­Norway, Finland, Denmark and Poland, with Polish market in 2015. The partnership with a total of over EUR 3.6 billion in assets under Skanska was vital in this strategic decision. management. Niam has invested over EUR 10 “Our experience with Skanska in Poland billion through its own funds since 2000. really highlights our partnership. Poland is In 2014, Niam acquired their first property Niam’s only market in which we do not have from Skanska in Sweden. Johan Berfenstam, people based locally. Because of this, we need Niam’s Head of Acquisitions, comments on a local partner we can really trust. When looktheir relationship with Skanska. ing at Polish office developments, we know “We have a long-term relationship with from Skanska’s strong record in the Nordics Skanska. Skanska has a tradition of thinking that we can depend on Skanska’s diligence Johan Berfenstam like a building owner, really understanding when selecting building sites and writing lease Head of Acquisitions, Niam what is important to building managers and contracts, which form a big part of a building’s investors. Their commercial development value. Also, I know the pride Skanska takes in teams are thinking about the next step in delivering the best properties to the market. a building’s life cycle and they design the We have not been disappointed. Niam has building for a long-term perspective. Not all acquired eight buildings from Skanska in four of Skanska’s competitors have this holistic Polish cities, and we still own many of those view on property development. This is an buildings,” Johan concludes. important part of why we have chosen to acquire properties from Skanska,”says Johan. 36 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Good corporate governance ensures that Skanska is managed sustainably, responsibly and efficiently on behalf of all shareholders. The overall goal is to increase value for shareholders, and in doing so meet their expectations for invested capital. The purpose of corporate governance is also to ensure oversight by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) and management. By having a clearly defined governance structure as well as proper rules and processes, the Board can ensure that management and employees are focused on developing the business and thereby generating value for shareholders. This corporate governance report for 2019 has been reviewed by Skanska’s external auditors in accordance with Chapter 9, Section 31 of the Swedish Companies Act. The report contains information as required by Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act. Corporate governance principles Key external governing documents Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project development companies, focused on selected home markets in the • Swedish Companies Act Nordic region, Europe and the USA. Supported by global trends • Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront • Swedish Corporate Governance Code of sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both • Annual Accounts Act simple and the most complex assignments. Driven by the Skanska • Securities Market Act values, Skanska helps create sustainable futures for customers and • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) communities. The parent company of the Group is Skanska AB and other accounting rules (the “Company”), with a registered office in Stockholm, Sweden. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards As a Swedish public limited company with shares listed on ­Nasdaq Stockholm, Skanska is subject to a variety of external rules that affect its corporate governance. In addition, to ensure Key internal governing documents compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the high standards that Skanska sets for itself, Skanska has adopted inter• Articles of Association nal rules to govern the Group as well as processes for ­monitoring • Procedural Rules for the Board and its Committees compliance with the external and internal rules by all business • Instructions for the CEO and President units and functions in the Group. Skanska’s ethical and sustain• Group steering documents, including Group p­ olicies, s­ tandards and procedures, guidelines and business ability endeavors are an integral part of the business, and the ­processes for approval, control and risk management Board discusses these issues on a regular basis. Skanska has no deviations from the Swedish Corporate Gover• Skanska’s Code of Conduct, which is available on the Group’s website: group.skanska.com/about-us/our-codenance Code (the “Code”) to report for the 2019 financial year. Nor of-conduct/ has Skanska been subject to any rulings by Nasdaq Stockholm’s Disciplinary Committee or decisions on breach of good practices in the stock market by the Swedish Securities Council in 2019. For more information, go to: group.skanska.com/corporategovernance/. Governance structure Shareholders, through the Nomination Committee External Auditors General Meeting of shareholders Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Project Review Committee President and CEO, Internal Audit Group Functions Group Leadership Team and Compliance Commercial Property Construction Residential Development Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 37 Corporate governance report Shares and shareholders the Board; discharging the members of the Board and the President and CEO from liability; election of external auditors; and Skanska’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the guidelines for salary and other remuneration to senior executives. Large Cap segment. The share capital at the end of 2019 amounted Skanska’s financial year is from January 1 to December 31, and to SEK 1,259,709,216 consisting of a total of 419,903,072 shares, the AGM is to be held within six months of the end of the finanof which 19,704,715 were Series A shares and 400,198,357 were cial year. The date and venue for the AGM is communicated no Series B shares. Series A shares entitle the holders to ten votes later than the publishing of the third quarter interim report on the per share and Series B shares entitle the holders to one vote per Group’s website. The notice convening the meeting is published in share. Series A and Series B shares carry the same right to share Postoch Inrikes Tidningar (the Official Swedish Gazette) and on in the Company’s assets and entitle the holder to the same divithe Group’s website. An announcement of the notice c­ onvening dend. There are no restrictions in the Articles of Association on the meeting is published in Dagens Nyheter and in at least one the number of votes each shareholder may cast at a general sharemore Swedish daily newspaper. All documents relating to the holders’ meeting. AGM are published on the Group’s website in both Swedish and At the end of 2019, Skanska had a total of 99,134 shareholders, English. Shareholders listed in the register of shareholders on the according to statistics from Euroclear Sweden AB. The ten largest record date and who notify the Company of their intention to shareholders held 55.3 percent of the votes and 38.6 percent of the ­participate in the meeting are entitled to attend it either personally capital. AB Industrivärden’s holding amounted to 24.3 percent of or by proxy through a representative. Shareholders have the right the votes and L E Lundbergföretagen AB’s holding to 12.8 percent. to have matters addressed at the AGM if they have submitted a More information about the Skanska share and shareholders is request to the Board no later than seven weeks before the AGM. available on page 10. Annual General Meeting 2019 General Meetings of shareholders The 2019 AGM was held on March 28, 2019, in Stockholm. A The general shareholders’ meeting is Skanska’s highest d ­ ecisiontotal of 844 shareholders, representing around 57.8 percent of making body and it is where shareholders exercise their d ­ ecisionthe total number of votes, were represented at the AGM. Among making rights. At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), the other matters, the meeting voted to re-elect Hans Biörck, Pär shareholders decide on key issues, such as adoption of income Boman, Fredrik Lundberg, Catherine Marcus, Jayne McGivern statements and balance sheets; the dividend; the composition of and Charlotte Strömberg as members of the Board and to elect Annual General Meeting 2020 The next AGM of shareholders of Skanska AB will be held at 10:00 a.m. CET on March 26, 2020 at Stockholm Waterfront Congress Centre in Stockholm, Sweden. 38 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Jan Gurander as new member of the Board. Hans Biörck was Nomination Committee 2020 re-elected as Chairman of the Board. The employees were repreThe Nomination Committee for the 2020 AGM has the following sented on the Board by Ola Fält, Richard Hörstedt and Yvonne composition: Stenman as members, with Pär-Olow Johansson and Anders • Helena Stjernholm, AB Industrivärden (24.3 percent of votes1), Rättgård as deputy members. All members and deputy members Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the Board, as well as Skanska’s external auditors and the mem• Mats Guldbrand, L E Lundbergföretagen AB (12.8 percent bers of the Group Leadership Team, were present at the AGM. The of votes1) AGM re-elected Ernst & Young AB as external auditor. The AGM • Lars-Åke Bokenberger, AMF (3.6 percent of votes1) also decided to approve a dividend to the shareholders of SEK 6.00 • Bo Selling, Alecta (3.5 percent of votes1) per share. • Hans Biörck, Chairman of the Board, Skanska AB Decisions of the AGM also included resolutions on a l­ ong-term employee ownership program for the financial years 2020, 2021 This information was announced on the Group’s website and puband 2022 for permanent employees in the Group (Seop 5), and lished in a press release on September 20, 2019. According to the authorization for the Board to, during the period up to the 2020 Code, the majority of the Nomination Committee’s members are AGM, resolve on acquisitions of not more than 1,000,000 Series to be independent in relation to the Company and its senior execB shares in Skanska on Nasdaq Stockholm to secure delivery of utives and at least one member is also to be independent in relashares to participants in Seop 5. Complete information on the tion to the largest shareholders in the Company in terms of voting 2019 AGM and the minutes of the meeting are available on the rights. All of the appointed members are independent in r­ elation to Group’s website: group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/ the Company and its senior executives and three are independent annual-general-meeting/agm-archive/. in relation to the largest shareholders in the Company in terms of voting rights. In preparation for the 2020 AGM, the Nomination C ­ ommittee The Nomination Committee held six meetings at which minutes were kept. No fees have The 2018 AGM gave the Chairman of the Board a mandate to been paid out for Nomination Committee duties. To perform its allow each of the four largest shareholders in terms of v­ oting work, the Nomination Committee has taken part of the internal power to appoint a representative to join the Chairman on the ­evaluation of the Board’s work, the Chairman’s account of board Nomination Committee for the next AGM. In determining which duties and the Company’s strategy. The Committee has also interare deemed to be the largest shareholders in terms of v­ oting viewed individual members of the Board. Furthermore, Skanska’s power, the list of shareholders registered with and categorized ­President and CEO and CFO have attended a meeting for presenby Euroclear Sweden AB as of the last business day in August is tation of the Company’s operations and strategies. to be used. The Nomination Committee is of the opinion that the v­ arious fields of competence and experience considered important to The Nomination Committee’s mandate includes: Skanska are well represented in the proposed Board and that the • Evaluating the composition of the Board and its work composition and the size of the proposed Board is appropriate • Preparing proposals to submit to the AGM regarding the to meet Skanska’s needs. The independence requirement is also ­election of board members and the Chairman of the Board deemed to have been met. The Nomination Committee has also • Working with the Board’s Audit Committee to prepare p­ roposals discussed the diversity requirement. In this regard the Nomination to submit to the AGM regarding the election of auditors Committee has decided to apply as its diversity policy rule 4.1 of the • Preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM on fees to the Code, which states that board members elected by the s­ hareholders’ non-employee members of the Board, to be divided between meeting are to collectively exhibit diversity and breadth of qualithe Chairman and the other non-employee members, and any fications, experience and background. A gender balance is also to compensation for committee work and fees to the auditors be aimed for. Information has been provided on the background • Preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM regarding a and experience of the members of the Board, and it has been deter­Chairman for the AGM mined that the proposed Board will consist of three women and • When applicable, preparing a proposal on changes to the four men. The gender balance is therefore 43 percent/57 percent, ­principles for appointing the next Nomination Committee. which, in the opinion of the Nomination Committee, is consistent with the gender balance requirement. On the Group’s website there is information on how the shareThe Nomination Committee’s proposals, work report and supholders can submit their own proposals to the Nomination plementary information on proposed members of the Board are Committee: group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/annual-­ published on the Group’s website in connection with the notice general-meeting/nomination-committee/. convening the AGM. 1 Based on shareholding as of August 31, 2019. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 39 Corporate governance report Board of Directors The members and the deputy members of the Board Independent in Independent in Audit Compensation Project Review relation to the relation to major Member Position Elected, year Committee Committee Committee Company and GLT shareholders Hans Biörck Chairman 2016 • • • Yes Yes Pär Boman Member 2015 • • • Yes No Jan Gurander1 Member 2019 • • Yes Yes Nina Linander2 Member 2014 • • Yes No Fredrik Lundberg Member 2011 • Yes No Catherine Marcus Member 2017 • Yes Yes Jayne McGivern Member 2015 • • Yes Yes Charlotte Strömberg Member 2010 • • Yes Yes Ola Fält Employee Representative 2018 – – Richard Hörstedt Employee Representative 2007 • – – Yvonne Stenman Employee Representative 2018 – – Pär-Olow Johansson Employee Representative (Deputy) 2014 – – Anders Rättgård Employee Representative (Deputy) 2017 – – • = Chairman • = Member 1 From March 28, 2019. 2 Until March 28, 2019. According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board the Board has the relevant information and documentation on is to consist of no fewer than five and no more than ten members which to base decisions. In 2019 the Board held seven m ­ eetings, with no more than three deputies, all of which are elected by the including its statutory meeting. The more important issues dealt shareholders at each AGM. The Board has overall responsibility with by the Board during the year included monitoring ­operations, for Skanska’s organizational structure and management, and the review and approval of the interim reports and year-end report, Board’s main duty is to safeguard the interests of the Company and strategic review of Skanska including a restructuring of the Centhe shareholders. The Board thus makes decisions regarding the tral Europe Construction operations, as well as internal control, Group’s strategy, interim and annual reports, major construction risk management and compliance matters. projects, investments and divestments, appointment of the President and CEO, and matters concerning the organizational strucEvaluation of the work of the Board ture of the Group. The Chairman leads the Board in its work and The work of the Board is evaluated annually through a structured has regular contact with the President and CEO in order to stay process aimed at improving work processes, efficiency and collecinformed about the Group’s activities and development. tive expertise, and to assess any need for change. The Chairman of In 2019, the Board consisted of seven members elected by the the Board is responsible for the evaluation and for presenting the AGM, without deputies, plus three members and two deputy findings to the Board and the Nomination Committee. In 2019 an members appointed by the trade unions. According to the Code, evaluation was carried out in the form of a questionnaire and indithe majority of the Board’s AGM-elected members are to be indevidual conversations between the Chairman and each member of pendent in relation to the Company and its senior executives, the Board, but also through discussion during board meetings. and at least two members are to also be independent in relation to The Chairman was also evaluated through a written questionnaire the largest shareholders in the Company. All of the board memand discussion with the Board; the board m ­ eeting on this occasion bers elected by the 2019 AGM are independent in relation to the was chaired by another member appointed for the purpose. The Company and its senior executives. Of these, five members are outcome of the 2019 evaluation was that the work of the Board also independent in relation to the Company’s largest shareholdwas deemed to be functioning well. ers. The composition of the Board and an assessment of the independence of each member are presented in more detail on pages Fees to the Board 46–47. Total fees to the AGM-elected board members not employed by Skanska were approved by the 2019 AGM in the amount of SEK The work of the Board in 2019 8,815,000. The Chairman of the Board received SEK 2,100,000 and The work of the Board follows an annual agenda established in the the other board members not employed by Skanska received SEK Board’s Procedural Rules. In preparation for each board meeting, 700,000 each. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committhe Board receives reports and documentation compiled accordtee received SEK 230,000 and the other members of the committee ing to established procedures. The purpose of this is to ensure that SEK 165,000 each, the Chairman of the Compensation ­Committee 40 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report received SEK 110,000 and the other members of the committee a year the Audit Committee meets the auditors without senior SEK 105,000 each, and the Chairman of the P ­ roject Review execu­tives being present. Committee and the other members of the committee received In 2019 the Audit Committee consisted of Charlotte Strömberg SEK 210,000 each. For more detailed information, see Note 37, (Chairman), Hans Biörck, Pär Boman, Jan Gurander1 and Nina “Remuneration to senior executives and board m ­ embers.” Linander2. The Committee held five meetings in 2019. Important matters The Board’s committees addressed during the year included capital allocation, financing, The Board is ultimately responsible for the organization of pension reporting, external reporting, impairment testing, Skanska and the management of Skanska’s operations. The overall write-downs in construction projects, larger disputes, review of responsibility of the Board cannot be delegated, but the Board may the interim reports and year-end report, internal control, risk appoint committees to do preparatory work and explore certain management and compliance matters. issues in preparation for decisions by the Board. S­ kanska’s Board has formed three committees to provide structure, improve effiCompensation Committee ciency and ensure the quality of its work: (i) Audit C ­ ommittee, (ii) The main task of the Compensation Committee is to prepare Compensation Committee and (iii) Project Review C ­ ommittee. recommendations for decisions by the Board on the appointment The members of the committees are appointed annually at the statu­ or dismissal of the President and CEO, including salary and other tory meeting of the Board. The Board’s Procedural Rules specify remuneration, and the other Group Leadership Team members. which duties and decision-making powers have been delegated. The committee prepares recommendations for decisions by the The Chairman of each committee reports orally to the Board at Board on incentive programs and examines the outcomes of varieach board meeting and all minutes from the committee meetings able remuneration components. are submitted to the Board. In 2019 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck (Chairman), Pär Boman and Jayne McGivern. The Code requireAudit Committee ments regarding independence, according to which the Chairman The main task of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in of the Board is permitted to be the Chairman of the ­Compensation overseeing the financial reporting, reporting procedures and Committee and other AGM-elected members are to be indepenaccounting principles, and to monitor the auditing of the accounts dent in relation to the Company and its senior executives, have for the Company and the Group. The committee also evaluates therefore been met. the quality of the Group’s reporting, internal auditing and risk The committee held six meetings in 2019. Important m ­ atters management, and reviews the reports and opinions of S­ kanska’s addressed during the year were review of Skanska’s variable external auditors. The committee monitors the external a­ uditors’ remuneration programs for the senior executives, review and assessment of their impartiality and independence, and that there ­evaluation of the application of the principles for salary and are routines in place stipulating which non-audit services they other remuneration to senior executives as well as the existing provide to the Company and the Group. The committee also remuneration structures and levels in the Company and review ­monitors compliance with the rules on auditor rotation. The of senior executives’ other assignments. ex­ternal auditors are present at committee meetings. At least once Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Board meetings Audit Committee Compensation Committee Project Review Committee Number of meetings 7 5 6 12 Member Hans Biörck 7 5 6 12 Pär Boman 7 5 6 11 Jan Gurander1 6 4 8 Nina Linander2 1 1 1 Fredrik Lundberg 7 11 Catherine Marcus 7 12 Jayne McGivern 7 5 11 Charlotte Strömberg 7 5 12 Ola Fält 6 Richard Hörstedt 7 12 Yvonne Stenman 7 Pär-Olow Johansson 6 Anders Rättgård 7 1 From March 28, 2019. 2 Until March 28, 2019. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 41 Corporate governance report Project Review Committee for the day-to-day management of the operations of the ComThe Project Review Committee takes decisions on individual pany and the Group and is supported by the other members of projects within the Construction, Commercial Property the Group Leadership Team. The other members of the Group Development and Residential Development business streams and Leader­ship Team have the title Executive Vice President (EVP). on certain project financing packages. Projects above a certain The work of the President and CEO is evaluated at one board monetary threshold or that involve especially high or unusual meeting each year at which no senior executives are present. The risks or other special circumstances may be referred to the Board President and CEO has no business dealings of any significance for a decision. The committee consists of all AGM-elected board with the Company or its Group companies. members and employee representative Richard Hörstedt. The Information on the President and CEO and the other members committee held 12 meetings in 2019. of the Group Leadership Team can be found on pages 48–49. Core corporate functions and Group functions External auditors Core corporate functions and Group functions are based at the According to the Articles of Association, the Company shall have Group HQ in Stockholm. The Core corporate functions and one or two authorized auditors and no more than two d ­ eputy Group functions assist the President and CEO and the Group auditors. A registered accounting firm may be appointed as the Leadership Team on matters relating to corporate functions, coorCompany’s external auditor. At the 2019 AGM, Ernst & Young dination and oversight. They also provide support to the business AB was re-elected as external auditor, until the close of the 2020 units. The head of each Group function reports directly to a memAGM. Authorized Public Accountant Hamish Mabon is the audiber of the Group Leadership Team. The head of the Internal Audit tor in charge. The external auditor has attended two board meetand Compliance reports directly to the Board by way of the Audit ings to report on the auditing process of Ernst & Young AB for Committee. A presentation of the Core corporate functions and Skanska and to provide the members of the Board with an opporthe Group functions can be found on page 49. tunity to ask questions without senior executives being p ­ resent. The external auditor has also attended four meetings of the Remuneration to senior executives Board’s Audit Committee. For information on fees and other The 2019 AGM approved guidelines for salary and other remunerremuneration to the external auditor for audit-related and other ation to senior executives. These are described on page 167. Inforservices, see Note 38, “Fees and other remuneration to auditors.” mation about salary and other remuneration to senior executives, as well as outstanding share award and share-related incentive programs,are found in Note 37, “Remuneration to senior execuOperational management and tives and board members.” Senior executives include the President internal governance and CEO and the other members of the Group Leadership Team. Skanska operates with a decentralized governance model that recognizes the local characteristics of the construction and Purpose, values and strategy develop­ment markets, empowering the business units to develop While creating shareholder value, Skanska’s purpose is to build for their business and deliver according to plan, while retaining the a better society. This reflects the Group’s role in society, a position profit and loss responsibility. The Group Headquarters (“Group that enables Skanska to create shareholder value. HQ”) sets the Group strategy and targets, ensures effective Fundamental to Skanska’s success are four values; Care for Life; financial capacity, and conducts proper follow-up on business Act Ethically and Transparently; Be Better – Together; and Comunit per­formance and compliance. mit to Customers. They serve as a moral foundation and compass, In the decentralized governance structure operated, as a rule, the and Skanska constantly drives the need for every employee to Group HQ establishes what is required, while the business units strongly live these values in all they do. are responsible for how requirements are met. Each business unit is Skanska provides innovative and sustainable solutions to create headed by a President and has its own administrative functions and a sustainable future for its employees, customers, shareholders and other resources to conduct its operations effectively. Aside from communities. This is reinforced by continued commitment to the day-to-day operations managing projects, the business units deal sustainability focus areas Health and Safety, Ethics, Green, Comwith matters such as their strategic development, business plans, munity Investment as well as Diversity and Inclusion. Sustain­ investments, divestments and organization. ability at Skanska is grounded in the Group’s purpose and values. The Group’s sustainability focus areas are strengthened by their The President and CEO and the Group Leadership Team connection to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The President and CEO is appointed by the Board and runs the and will guide Skanska’s efforts to make significant positive contriCompany and the Group in accordance with the instructions butions to the global sustainable development agenda and to sociadopted by the Board. The President and CEO is responsible ety. Skanska’s sustainability report can be found on pages 56–85. 42 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct is supplemented by the Supplier Code Skanska’s Code of Conduct is based on the Skanska values and sets of Conduct which must be adhered to by all subcontractors, supthe standard for the daily behavior of employees and how Skanska pliers, consultants, intermediaries and agents. The Supplier Code does business. It is reviewed regularly by the Group Leadership of Conduct is included in agreements with these parties and outTeam and updates are approved by the Board. It defines Skanska’s lines the expectations that Skanska put on those Skanska does commitments at the workplace, in the marketplace and to society. business with. The Supplier Code covers topics such as fair workIt covers such topics as health and safety; diversity and inclusion; ing conditions; discrimination and harassment; anti-corruption data protection; environment; confidentiality; conflicts of i­ nterest; and anti-bribery; and fair competition. fraud; fair competition; anti-corruption and anti-bribery; and Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline provides a mechanism for insider information and market abuse. employees, suppliers’ employees and other third parties to All Skanska employees are required to uphold the principles and anonymously report on breaches or suspected breaches of the requirements contained in the Code of Conduct. All e­ mployees Skanska’s Code of Conduct. The hotline is managed by an indereceive Code of Conduct training every two years, and new pendent third-party service provider and is a supplement to the employees are trained within one month of starting with Skanska. internal reporting channels that all employees have access to. This requirement applies equally to members of the Board. Skanska’s management structure Group Leadership Team Anders Danielsson, President and CEO Magnus Persson Caroline Richard Kennedy Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä, EVP, CFO Fellenius-Omnell EVP EVP EVP, EVP, General Counsel Human Resources Finance Legal Human Resources Communications Reporting and Assurance and Skanska Skanska Commercial Sustainability Core Corporate Accounting Control USA Building Property Function Development Nordic Financial Support Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska Business Unit/ and Analysis USA Civil Property Finland Operating Unit Development Europe Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska Group Financial Services Property Norway Function Development USA Investor Skanska Residential Skanska Reports directly Relations Development Sweden to the Board Europe Information BoKlok Skanska Technology Housing Czech Republic and Slovakia2 Internal Audit Skanska and Compliance Poland2 Asset Skanska Management 1 UK 1 Portfolio of PPP assets. 2 Central Europe as of September 1, 2019. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 43 Corporate governance report Skanska’s reporting structure Business Streams Operating units Construction Residential Development Commercial Property Development Operating unit External reporting Operating unit External reporting Operating unit External reporting Sweden • • • Norway • • • Finland • • • Commercial Property Development Nordic • Czech Republic and Slovakia 1 • Poland 1 • United Kingdom • Commercial Property Development Europe • Residential Development Europe • USA Civil • USA Building • Commercial Property Development USA • BoKlok 2 • • = Operating unit = External reporting 1 Central Europe as of September 1, 2019. 2 BoKlok has operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. In the external reporting BoKlok is divided and included in the Nordic cluster, of which Sweden, and Europe. Governance framework The Group governance framework consists of three categories of The Group HQ is responsible for setting the Group governance steering documents: Group policies and Group procedures and framework, including Group policies and other Group s­ teering standards, which are mandatory, as well as non-mandatory guidedocuments, and for following up on its implementation and lines for the Group. The Business Unit President is responsible effective operation in the business units. The business units are for implementation of the Group governance framework in the required to establish and maintain a robust and w ­ ell-functioning respective business unit. system of governance within their operations. A clear framework The Board’s Procedural Rules state which items of business will of policies, procedures and standards reduces risks and increases be decided upon by the Board, by the President and CEO/Group effectiveness, and makes it easier to live by Skanska’s Code of Leadership Team or at the business unit level. ­Conduct and other Skanska values. The Group g­ overnance frameIn addition to the Board’s Procedural Rules, and S­ kanska’s Code work consists of steering documents that define how Skanska’s of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct, Skanska’s Group operations are run, controlled and organized, which standards ­policies include: and ­process to work according to, how to manage risks, at what • Finance Policy levels decisions are made and what is mandatory for the Skanska • IT Policy business units. The governance framework is applicable to the • Claims Management Policy Company, all Skanska business units and Skanska employees. • Insider Policy If not followed, there may be consequences – up to dismissal. • Personal Data Protection Policy Business units’ governance systems, such as business units’ • Anti-Corruption Policy ­policies and management systems, should complement and add • Enterprise Risk Management Policy local, practical detail to the steering documents in the Group • Human Resources Policy ­governance framework. • Health and Safety Policy • Environmental Policy • Information Policy Group policies Group standards or Group procedures Group guidelines Core mandatory operating rules of the Group, Mandatory. Procedures are generally detailed A non-binding document containing guidance addressing risks, goals and where corporate step-by-step instructions to achieve a given goal, for the organization. governance is needed. while standards indicate expected behavior or a minimum level of quality or a minimum standard. 44 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance report Internal control Risks and opportunities for improvement are both greatest during the actual execution phase of the projects, and thus the work This description includes the most important elements of Skansfocuses heavily on this phase. Since almost every project is unique, ka’s internal control and risk management systems in connection risks and opportunities must be analyzed with respect to p ­ roject with financial reporting. type, location, execution phase and client. During e­ xecution, projects over a set threshold must adhere to the Skanska P ­ roject Control environment Review and Reporting Procedure to ensure consistent project The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that Skanska has reviews, including a process to make sure that deviations from effective and adequate risk management and internal control. The planned performance are detected and acted upon early. All purpose is to provide a reasonable assurance that the operations ­business units employ common valuation principles and termino­ are run appropriately and efficiently, that external r­ eporting is logy to ensure conservative project valuation and a high level of reliable, and that laws and regulations and internal rules are comperformance transparency. plied with. The Board’s Procedural Rules ensure a clear division of roles and responsibilities for the purpose of ensuring effective Information and communication management of business risks. The Board and the Group Leader­ Significant accounting principles, manuals and other documents ship Team have also adopted a number of fundamental rules of of importance in financial reporting are updated and information importance for internal control work, such as the Group’s Enteron them is communicated regularly. There are several information prise Risk Management Policy and the Group Governance Prochannels to the Group Leadership Team and the Board for importcedure. The Group Leadership Team reports regularly to the ant information. For its external communication, the Group has an Board according to established routines. The Audit Committee Information Policy to ensure that Skanska complies with existing also presents reports on its work. The Group Leadership Team is regulations on providing the market with accurate information. ­responsible for the system of internal controls required to manage material operational risk. This includes a clear decision-making Monitoring structure and the Group framework of policies, standards/proceThe Board continually evaluates the information provided by the dures and guidelines. Group Leadership Team and the Audit Committee. Of particular The Group function Assurance and Control supports the Group importance is the result of the Audit Committee’s work on moni­ Leadership Team in monitoring the system of internal control. toring the effectiveness of the Group Leadership Team’s internal control processes. This includes ensuring that steps are taken to Risk assessment and control activities address the shortcomings revealed in internal and external audits Skanska has identified the material risks in its operations that and to implement the proposed actions. may, if not managed correctly, lead to errors in financial reporting and/or have an impact on the Company’s performance results. Internal Audit and Compliance The Group HQ has subsequently ensured that the Group has rules The Group function Internal Audit and Compliance is r­ esponsible in place to guarantee that these risks are managed. The Group for monitoring and evaluating risk management and internal Leader­ship Team and the Group functions are ­responsible for control processes. The work is planned in consultation with the managing general risks relating to strategy, m ­ acroeconomics Audit Committee and reporting takes place directly to the Board and regulatory frameworks, while the main tasks relating to through the committee. Matters relating to internal audit are also ­operational risk and opportunities are carried out at the local level communi­cated on an ongoing basis to Skanska’s external auditors. within the business units. A detailed description of the ­identified In 2019, Internal Audit and Compliance focused on reviewing the enterprise risks and how they are managed is found on pages risks identified relating to the Group’s projects, business-critical 50–54. processes and key corporate functions. A total of 122 audits were Skanska uses a Group-wide procedure for identifying and manconducted during the year within all business units. There was a aging risks associated with construction contracts and project particular focus on the business operations in the USA and Central development. A specialized Group unit, the Skanska Risk Team, Europe. The audits were performed in accordance with a ­uniform examines and analyzes proposals for tenders in construction and audit method. land investments, project starts as well as divestments in p­ roject development above a certain size. Based on the identified risks and opportunities, the Skanska Risk Team then issues a recommendation on how to proceed. The final decision is made by the Skanska Tender Board which consists of the Group Leadership Team and, in certain cases, the Project Review Committee. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 45 Board of Directors Board of Directors Hans Biörck Pär Boman Jan Gurander Position Chairman Board member Board member Born Sweden, 1951 Sweden, 1961 Sweden, 1961 Elected 2016 2015 2019 Shareholding in Skanska, 25,000 B shares 1,000 B shares 0 shares December 31 2019 Other board assignments – Chairman, Trelleborg AB –C  hairman, Handelsbanken AB –B  oard member, The Association of – Board member, Handelsbanken AB – Chairman, Essity AB Swedish Engineering Industries – Chairman, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolag SCA –V  ice Chairman, AB Industrivärden Education –M  aster of Science in Business and –D  egree in engineering and in –M  aster of Science in Business and Economics, Stockholm School of ­e conomics Economics, Stockholm School of ­Economics Economics Work experience –C  hief Financial Officer, Skanska AB –P  resident and CEO, –D  eputy CEO AB Volvo (since 2018) –C  hief Financial Officer, Autoliv AB Handelsbanken AB –D  eputy CEO and CFO AB Volvo –C  hief Financial Officer, Esselte AB –C  FO & Senior Vice President F­ inance Volvo Car Group –C  FO MAN Diesel & Turbo SE –G  roup Vice President and CFO, Scania AB Dependency relationship – I ndependent in relation to the com– I ndependent in relation to the com– I ndependent in relation to the comin ­accordance with the Swedish pany and its executive management pany and its executive management pany and its executive management Corporate Governance Code – I ndependent in relation to major –D  ependent in relation to major – I ndependent in relation to major shareholders ­shareholders shareholders Board members and deputies appointed by the trade unions1 Ola Fält Richard Hörstedt Pär-Olow Johansson Born: Gävle, 1966 Born: Helsingborg, 1963 Born: Stockholm, 1954 Skanska Industrial Region Hus Syd; Region Hus Stockholm Solutions; appointed by Byggnads Nord; appointed by appointed by SEKO in 2018 in 2007 ­Byggnads in 2014 Board member Board member Deputy Board member Shareholding in Skanska Shareholding in Skanska Shareholding in Skanska 1,498 B shares 0 shares 4,755 B shares 1 Shareholding in Skanska, December 31, 2019. 46 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Jayne McGivern Charlotte Strömberg Board member Board member Board member Board member Sweden, 1951 USA, 1965 United Kingdom, 1960 Sweden, 1959 2011 2017 2015 2010 6,032,000 A shares and 0 shares 0 shares 7,000 B shares 14,050,000 B shares through 900 B shares related person L E Lundbergföretagen AB (publ) 1,000,000 B shares through privately owned enterprise 5,376 A shares and 1,100,000 B ­shares privately – Chairman, AB Industrivärden – Board member, NCREIF PREA – Board member, Cairn Homes plc – Chairman, Castellum AB – Chairman, Holmen AB Reporting Standards Board (Private) – Board member, Clas Ohlson AB – Chairman, Hufvudstaden AB – Board member, Sofina S.A. – V ice Chairman, Handelsbanken AB – Board member, Kinnevik AB – Board member, L E Lundberg­ –M  ember, The Swedish ­Securities företagen AB Council – M .Sc. Engineering, Royal Institute of – M .S., Real Estate Investment and – Harrogate Ladies College –M  .B.A, Stockholm School of Technology, Stockholm ­Development, New York University – Fellow of the Royal Institution ­Economics – M .B.A, Stockholm School of – B.S.E. Real Estate Finance and of Chartered Surveyors ­Economics Entrepreneurial Management, – Dr. (Econ.) h.c., Stockholm School of Wharton School, University of Economics Pennsylvania – Dr. (Eng.) h.c., Linköping University – P resident and CEO, – Global Chief Operating – E xecutive Vice President – S enior Project and Account L E Lundberg­företagen AB Officer, PGIM Real Estate Development and Construction, ­Manager, Alfred Berg, ABN – P GIM Real Estate Madison Square Garden plc AMRO, Stockholm – M BL Life Assurance Corporation – Red Grouse Properties –H  ead of Investment Banking, – Chief Executive Officer, Carnegie Investment Bank Multiplex plc (Europe) –P  resident, Jones Lang LaSalle – Managing Director UK, Norden Anschutz Entertainment Group – Independent in relation to the com– Independent in relation to the com– Independent in relation to thecom– I ndependent in relation to the pany and its executive management pany and its executive management pany and its executive management company and its executive – Dependent in relation to major – Independent in relation to major – Independent in relation to major ­management ­shareholders ­shareholders ­shareholders – I ndependent in relation to major shareholders Anders Rättgård Yvonne Stenman Auditors Born: Holmestad, 1961 Born: Stockholm, 1959 Ernst & Young AB Region Hus Göteborg; Region Hus Stockholm Auditor in charge since 2016: appointed by Unionen Nord; appointed by­­ Hamish Mabon,Stockholm, in 2017 Ledarna in 2018 born 1965, Authorized public Deputy Board member Deputy Board member ­accountant. Shareholding in Skanska Shareholding in Skanska 3,399 B shares 0 shares Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 47 Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Anders Danielsson Caroline Fellenius-Omnell Richard Kennedy Position President and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President (since 2018) General Counsel (since 2017) (since 2018) Responsible for business units/Core Responsible for Core Corporate Responsible for business units ­Corporate Function ­Function/ Group Function – Skanska USA Building – Skanska Finland – Legal – Skanska USA Civil – Skanska Norway – A ssurance and Control – Skanska Sweden – Skanska Czech Republic and Slovakia1 – Skanska Poland1 – Skanska UK – Communications Born 1966 1968 1966 Joined Skanska in 1991 2017 2004 Shareholding in Skanska 126,760 B shares 6,578 B shares 15,606 B shares December 31, 2019 Board assignments – – Board member, Aktiemarknads–A  CE Mentor Program, NY, USA bolagens förening (AMBF) –B  uilding Trades Employers Association, NY, USA Education – M .Sc. Engineering, Royal Institute – Master of Laws, –B  achelor of Arts, Rutgers College, of Technology, Stockholm Stockholm University Rutgers University – Advanced Management Program, – Master of Laws, College of Europe, – J uris Doctor, Seton Hall University ­Harvard, Boston MA Bruges School of Law –M  aster of Laws, London School of Economics and Politic Science Work experience – E xecutive Vice President, Skanska AB – Group General Counsel, Tele2 AB –P  resident and CEO, – P resident, Skanska Sweden – Group General Counsel, Sidel Skanska USA Building – P resident, Skanska Norway – General Counsel Europe,Tetra Pak AB – C  hief Operating Officer, – Corporate Counsel, AB Electrolux Skanska USA Building –G  eneral Counsel, Skanska USA Building Presidents of Gunnar Hagman Greg Craig Jan Odelstam Business units Skanska Sweden Skanska UK Skanska Commercial Property Ståle Rød Paul Hewins Development Nordic Skanska Norway Skanska USA Building Katarzyna Zawodna Tuomas Särkilahti Don Fusco Skanska Commercial Property Skanska Finland Skanska USA Civil Development Europe Jonas Spangenberg Robert Ward Magnus Persson2 BoKlok Housing Skanska Commercial Property Skanska Poland Development USA Michal Jurka3 Björn Matsson Skanska Czech Republic Skanska Residential Development Europe and Slovakia 1 Central Europe as of September 1, 2019. 2 Magnus Persson, Business Unit President for Skanska Poland until August 31, 2019. 3 Michal Jurka, Business Unit President for Central Europe as of September 1, 2019. 48 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Group Leadership Team Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä Magnus Persson Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, (since 2006) Human ­Resources (since 2018) Chief Financial Officer (since 2018) Responsible for business units Responsible for Core Corporate Responsible for Core Corporate – S kanska Commercial Property Function/ Group Function F­ unction/ Group Functions/Operating unit ­Development Nordic – H uman Resources – Finance – S kanska Commercial Property – Sustainability – Reporting and Accounting ­Development Europe – Financial Support and Analysis – S kanska Commercial Property – Skanska Financial Services ­Development USA – Investor Relations – S kanska Residential Development – I T ­Europe – Internal Audit and Compliance –B  oKlok Housing –A  sset Management 1965 1963 1976 1990 1994 2006 193,711 B shares 23,905 B shares 15,215 B shares – Chairman, Handelsbanken’s ­regional – Board member, FIBS (Finnish – bank board of directors, western Business Society) Sweden – N omination Committee, Board member, Stockholm School of Economics, A ­ dvisory Board – M .Sc. Engineering, Chalmers – Bachelor of Business Administration, –P  h.D. in Business Economics, ­University of Technology Haaga-Helia University Uppsala University –M  BA, Chalmers University of of Applied Sciences –M  aster of Science in Business ­Technology and University of – eMBA, Aalto Executive Education Economics, Uppsala University ­Gothenburg – P resident, – Senior Vice President, HR and –C  hief Financial Officer, Skanska Commercial Property ­Communications, Skanska Finland Skanska Sverige AB ­Development Nordic – Senior Vice President, HR Develop– S enior Vice President, Investor – P resident, ment, BU Skanska Finland Relations, Skanska AB Skanska Fastigheter – H RD manager, Skanska Finland –G  roup Manager, Corporate Finance, Göteborg – H R specialist, Skanska Finland Skanska AB –H  ead of Research & Analysis, Skanska Financial Services AB Senior Vice Presidents, Katarina Bylund André Löfgren Core Corporate Functions/ Reporting and Accounting Investor Relations Group Functions Karolina Cederhage Therese Tegner Communications Skanska Financial Services Anders Göransson Izabela Surmacz (acting) Internal Audit and Compliance Information Technology (IT) Lena Hök Caroline Walméus Sustainability Financial Support and Analysis Mark Lemon Assurance and Control Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 49 Risk and opportunity management Risk and opportunity management Proactive and structured risk and opportunity management at all levels provides increased resilience to risks and a greater ability to capture opportunities. Established by the Board, Skanska’s Entera more integrated and robust approach to business unit ERRs are collated, sorted prise Risk Management Policy (ERMP) enterprise risk management (ERM). and streamlined at Group level to create a sets out the framework and responsibilities The Skanska Group Leadership Team “Risk Universe” – a list of risk descriptions for risk management across the Group. The is ultimately responsible for risk manage­ that is a way of classifying all enterprise overall purpose is to ensure that risks are ment and for the implementation of The risks to which Skanska might be exposed. managed systematically, as efficiently as Enterprise Risk Management Policy Enterprise risks are classified as strategic, possible and that Skanska assigns the (ERMP). Business units are responsible for operational, financial and regulatory. For ­correct priorities, thereby supporting the managing risks in their respective b ­ usiness each category, the ERMP details the priachievement of Skanska’s business objecactivities within the framework set by the mary policies, procedures, regulations and tives and goals. ERMP and for reporting to the Group other steering documents governing risk Leadership Team regarding relevant risk management. A particular risk may be Enterprise risk management management matters. addressed by more than one policy or pro– new approach cedure. For a list of Group policies accordSkanska’s approach to risk management Enterprise-wide risk management ing to the Group’s governance framework, has evolved in 2019 and will continue to approach please see page 44. be developed in 2020. Using e­ stablished The ERMP obliges each business unit to Aligning the business units’ enterprise risk identification and analysis t­ echniques create an Enterprise Risk Register (ERR). risk registers with the risk universe allows and the COSO (Committee of ­Sponsoring Business units identify and classify their Skanska to work in a more consistent way Organizations of the Treadway Comrisks and then assess the risks and existing on enterprise risk throughout the Group. mission) framework for guidance, a topcontrols and submits an ERR for analysis Skanska can quickly and easily collate, anadown and bottom-up approach was and streamlining at Group level. B ­ usiness lyze and respond to the current main risks ­implemented. The new approach reflects units retain ownership of their risks. The in a more dynamic and proactive way, Skanska Tender Approval Procedure: Construction Activity Preliminary evaluation of Draft tender with a Final tender Execution according to the project with a focus on focus on the main risks ­contract with a continual Skanska’s core geographies, and ­opportunities. focus on monitoring risk and competence, customer, conopportunities. tract and partners. Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Decision Proceed or abstain? Submit tender or abstain? Contract negotiations Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Business unit Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Board of Directors Board of Directors Skanska Investment Approval Procedure: Commercial Property Development and Residential Development Activity Land investment with a Launch of project, considering Start of project with a focus Divestment of project with a focus on location, zoning, pricing and pre-sale rate on main risks and ­opportunities focus on the occupancy rate and partners, environmental ­(Residential Development in the market. payment terms (Commercial issues and return. only). Property Development only). Responsible Affärsenheten Affärsenheten Affärsenheten Affärsenheten Decision Proceed or abstain? Proceed, hold, Proceed, hold, Proceed or hold? re-develop or divest? re-develop or divest? Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Business unit Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors 50 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and opportunity management and to consider whether it is appropriate proposed construction and development to develop this further to create a systemto establish a risk appetite and risk tolerprojects exceeding heatmap thresholds atic link between operational and enterance for certain key risks. Other benefits of pass through the business unit level, the prise risk management. these changes include supporting Skanska’s Skanska Tender Board on Group-level and compliance programs and more efficient, the Board’s Project Review Committee for Significant risks design, implementation and assurance of scrutiny and approval. Based on Skanska’s risk universe, i­ ncluding internal controls. This clearly links to the all business unit enterprise risk registers, review and update of the Group’s GoverOngoing projects Skanska conducts an annual review of nance Framework implemented in 2018, The responsibility for managing project the Group’s enterprise risk e­ nvironment. and ultimately enables a more integrated risks sits clearly with line management in This includes mapping existing risks, system of governance, risk and control. the business units. The Group framework ­identifying and responding to p ­ otential for oversight of ongoing projects consists of new risks, and reviewing the status of Operational risk management the Skanska Group Project Reporting and risk ­management activities. The review, Construction and Project Development Review Procedure and the quarterly report­presented to the Board, generates a assessoperations depend on properly managing ing/review process. Management of comment of ­enterprise risks; for each of the top risks and opportunities, which are often mercial risks in projects in part regulated by risks, the appropriate­ness and effectiveness specific to each project. 2019 saw changes the Claims Management Policy. of management and mitigation measures to how Skanska manages operational risk. are assessed and corrected as required. As a result of the Skanska Group P ­ roject Launch of a new digital platform The table below presents significant risks Scrutiny and Approval Procedure, the In 2019, Skanska began the process of to Skanska divided into distinct but overGroup-wide procedures for identifying replacing the project review workflow syslapping risk c­ ategories; a risk may fall into and managing risks and opportunities – tem with a salesforce platform. In addition more than one category. the Skanska Tender Approval Procedure to cost savings and increased workflow and the Skanska Investment Approval efficiency, the main benefit is that the new ­Procedure – were updated. Under these system allows for agile development and, documents, and the Limits of Authorizamost importantly, a ­more structured way tion appended to the Procedural Rules, of collecting data. There is an intention is Strategic risks Operational risks Financial risks Regulatory risks Description Description Description Description • Relates to Skanska’s • Threatens the achievement • Threats to Skanska’s • Relates to compliance with purpose, long-term of Skanska’s business plan financial strength and applicable laws, external objectives and goals. and other short-term financial assets. regulations and internal objectives and goals, or rules. efficient use of resources. Main components Main components Main components Main components • Skanska’s values • Project and investment • Balance sheet • External rules and • Brand selection legislation • Capital funding • People • Bidding and developing • Counterparties • Internal rules • Leadership • Production • Macro economics • Contracts and agreements • Markets • Change and contract • Ethics management • Climate change • Human rights • Reporting and forecasting • Environmental incident • Health and Safety incident • IT system failure or attack Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 51 Risk and opportunity management Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures/activities Strategic risks Changes in market demands • Failure to understand or meet customer • Lost business opportunities • Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) allows for closer collaboration demands and/or adapt to market • Financial and non-financial with customers which is essential to better understand customers’ dynamics, including sustainability consequences for projects evolving needs and challenges, including market trends and demands • Project losses and investment writegovernment priorities • Working in wrong markets or subdowns • Understanding global trends affecting the construction and project markets or entering new markets. • Damaged reputation and inability to development sector is important as it makes it possible for Skanska meet project commitments to adjust the offering to meet customers’ demands. • The challenges and opportunities global trends create also can create business opportunities for Skanska. Climate risks • Physical risks caused by adverse impact • Operational cost increases or project • Skanska’s climate target of achieving net zero carbon emissions by from climate change such as extreme delays due to extreme weather 2045 will guide the work on reducing the climate impact from the weather conditions conditions Group’s operations • Not adapting to new climate • Decreased ability to deliver for • Drive innovation and offer new low-carbon solutions to customers regulations and demands from customers and inability to meet project • Skanska integrates climate resiliency into project development investors and customers. commitments to help cities and communities prepare for and respond to the • Lost business opportunities changing conditions that are an effect of the climate issue. • Being at the forefront and driving innovation for new low-carbon solutions creates business opportunities Read more on Skanska’s climate and environmental work on for Skanska. pages 66–72. Diversity and inclusion risks • Risks of job discrimination based on • Difficulties attracting, recruiting and/ • Targets including appropriate action plans for diversity and inclusion gender, age, religion, ethnicity, family or retaining employees with needed have been part of all business units’ business plans since 2015 situation, educational background and competencies • Diversity and inclusion is integrated into employee attraction and work experience. • Decreased employee engagement recruitment initiatives, employee performance review process and • Non-inclusive – even explicitly excluding and productivity due to non-inclusive leadership development programs – workplace culture, resulting in behaviors and experiences • A deep analysis with special focus on how to create a gender-diverse exclusionary experiences and cases of • Damaged reputation and gender-inclusive workplace has been performed, as part of discrimination and harassment. • Fines, penalties, lawsuits. diversity and inclusion being a priority area for the Group Leadership Team during 2019 Read more on Skanska’s work within diversity and inclusion on pages 76–77. Lack/loss of key employees • Inability to attract, recruit and retain • Difficulties attracting, recruiting and/ • Employee development and career planning including transparent a skilled, diverse and committed or retaining employees with needed performance review process based on diversity and inclusion workforce. competencies • Robust and fact-based succession planning and structured resource • Financial and non-financial planning consequences for projects • Seop, Skanska employee ownership program • Lower employee engagement and • Competitive compensation packages productivity due to non-inclusive • Group-wide employee survey. behaviors and experiences • Damaged reputation and inability to meet project commitments. Leadership or management failure in execution of strategy • Lack of control of business unit • Operational inefficiency, increasing • Focus on core business with sweet spot analysis in all Construction performance and poor implementation costs and decreasing profits business units of corrective actions or management • Project losses and investment write• Strategic risk/reward bidding failure to execute or adapt strategy to downs • Changes in management teams changes in circumstances. • Decreased ability to deliver for • Extensive employee training customers and inability to meet project • Governance framework provides clarity of business units’ decisioncommitments making and accountability • Pursuing and winning the wrong • Enhanced use of digital capabilities to increase efficiency, and to projects strengthen collaboration and knowledge sharing. • Fines, penalties, lawsuits • Damaged reputation. 52 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and opportunity management Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures/activities Operational risks Loss-making projects/investment • Misjudgment of contract risk, ineffective • Margin fade, operational inefficiency, • Improved project reporting and review procedures in all business units application or management of contract, increasing costs and decreasing profits • Revised project scrutiny and approval procedures poor administration of claims • Project losses and investment write• Strategic risk/reward bidding based on sweet spot analysis and heat • Poor project execution including downs maps systematic underestimating of cost, • Decreased ability to deliver for • Increased focus on management of design process, commercial terms schedule, scope and risk, or selection customers and inability to meet project and project scope changes to make correct decisions in planning, of wrong projects, customers or teams commitments procurement, design and project execution with lack of the right expertise. • Fines, penalties, lawsuits • Increased employee training to create teams with right expertise • Damaged reputation. • Active work on capital at risk, pre-leasing and pre-sales requirements • Increased focus on management of claims and litigation. Health and safety risks • Injuries, accidents, fatalities and ill-health • Fatalities, life-changing injuries, and • The Health and Safety Standard provide expected behaviors for all affecting people at Skanska sites, or injuries and long-term ill-health that Skanska workplaces, and cover aspects that include training, incident people affected by Group work activities reduce life expectancy or quality of life. management, risk assessment and instructions about personal . protective equipment. • Employee training in proper health and safety practices, e.g. the cultural change program Injury-Free Environment (IFE) and business unit-specific health and safety management system training • Mandatory certification of all business units to the ISO 45001 standard. All business units are certified or will finalize implementation in 2020 • To be more proactive in health and safety – a focus area for the Group Leadership Team in 2019 – analysis of data on potential fatalities and actual fatalities has been conducted to form the basis of an action plan for 2020 Environmental risk • Major environmental incident in • Harm to people and ecosystems • Mandatory ISO 14001 (international environmental management operations or supply chain or pollution • Negative environmental impact system standard) certifications ensures a systematic approach to or other negative environmental • Damaged reputation and loss of license managing environmental risk and issues. impacts. to operate • Skanska engages with suppliers to minimize risks of supply chain • Increasing cost and decreasing profits environmental breaches • Fines, penalties, lawsuits. • Employee training in proper environmental practices • Environmental specialists at Group and business unit levels secure compliance with the Group’s environmental expectations, which go beyond compliance and include retaining ISO 14001 certification. Resource efficiency • Inefficient use of energy, materials, • Negative environmental impact • The Skanska Color Palette secures a strategic approach to futurewaste and water. • Operational inefficiency, increasing costs proofing projects as regards resource efficiency (energy, carbon, and decreasing profits materials and water) • Inability to meet project schedule. • Improved planning through building information modeling (BIM) and other digital tools to increase efficiency and productivity. IT systems and information • Cyber attacks. • Social Engineering • Cyber security awareness • Ransomware/Malware • E-mail filtering • Unauthorized access • Intrusion detection capabilities • Cyber fraud • Monitoring of security posture • Hacking. • Supply chain security. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 53 Risk and opportunity management Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures/activities Financial risks Increased competition • Increased competition, including • Below-cost pricing, decreased • Ad-hoc scenario planning low-cost actors new to market or major margins • Capital employed limits market downturn or lack of projects. • Lost business opportunities. • Procurement planning • Early involvement with customers provides important opportunities to improve competitiveness • Focus on core business with sweet spot analysis in all Construction business units. Cost increases • Booming markets, commodity price • Margin fade or losses due to • Improved project reporting and review procedures in all business units increase, labor shortages, subcontractor increased project costs • Revised project scrutiny and approval procedures failures, currency exchange rate shifts, • Higher costs for external funding. • Review of counterparty risks insurance risk. • Insurance including coverage of subcontractor defaults • Currency hedging • Selective bidding. Supply chain risks • Suppliers not following Skanska’s • Damaged reputation if suppliers • Strategic procurement and early commitment of key subcontractors Supplier Code of Conduct or and subcontractors act in ways not • Prequalification or qualification prior to award of a contract reduces performance risks associated with each consistent with Skanska’s values performance risk supplier’s financial condition and ability • Margin fade or financial loss • Subguard and similar insurance to cover subcontractor failure to procure and manage materials and • Fines, penalties, lawsuits • Risk-based diligence vetting, monitoring and auditing of all labor. • Decreased ability to deliver for contractual counterparties customers and inability to meet • Sanction screening of all suppliers with an external global database project commitments on daily basis. • Environmental or safety incidents. Macro-financial instability • Economic slowdown, lag of demand, • Project/investment effects: default or • Active management of funding yield shifts. non-payment by customers • Target of adjusted net debt of no more than SEK -9 billion. • Difficulty obtaining funding. • Free working capital in construction operations • Limits for capital at risk and capital employed in development streams • Business units monitor macroeconomic situations and trends at country and regional levels. Financial risks: Skanska is also exposed to other financial risk such as credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. Read more in Note 6, Financial instruments and financial risk management, on pages 124–132. Regulatory risks Ethical breach, anti-corruption and bribery • Breach of bribery and corruption laws • Damaged reputation and lost trust as • Skanska’s Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy, Supplier Code of (e.g., UK Bribery Act, US Foreign Corrupt a responsible company Conduct and Skanska’s values provide clear direction to employees Practices Act, money laundering, • Delisting from public procurement in for appropriate and ethical conduct. proceeds of crime), breaches of EU some markets • Code of Conduct training required of employees is conducted competition law, US antitrust law or • Fines, penalties, civil lawsuits and continuously. other public procurement law. criminal charges • Skanska Code of Conduct was revised in 2019 to ensure alignment • Decreased ability to deliver for with the new governance framework. customers and inability to meet • Clear internal reporting structure for suspected breaches project commitments. • Code of Conduct Hotline reporting system managed by a third party • Risk-based diligence vetting, monitoring and auditing of all contractual counterparties. Human rights violations • Human rights violations, such as • Damaged reputation and lost trust as • In 2019, Skanska has updated the Code of Conduct and Supplier unfair working conditions, moderna responsible company Code of Conduct considering human rights that will form the basis day slavery, harassment and • Fines, penalties, civil lawsuits and for updated policies and standards. This work will continue in 2020. discrimination at workplaces/sites and criminal charges. • Code of Conduct Hotline reporting system managed by a third party by subcontractors or suppliers. • Risk-based diligence vetting, monitoring and auditing of all contractual counterparties. Political risks • Any act, decision or ruling by a • Negative impact on projects or • Home market strategy with extensive knowledge about political government, regional or local decision business unit. landscape maker, public authority or similar. • Group Leadership Team closer to business units • Early dialogue with political stakeholders on projects with high level of governmental risk. 54 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 » Our strengthened risk a ­ pproach is setting our projects up for success before they put a shovel in the ground. « Jeff Langevin, Chief Administrative Officer, Skanska USA Civil Strengthening Skanska’s risk approach increases profitability To strenghten its risk approach, Skanska USA Civil implemented a more stringent risk manage­ment process. The approach has been key to de-risking the backlog and improving profitability. In 2017 and 2018, the performance of Operating inside the Group-level Skanska Key bids are reviewed at business Skanska USA Civil’s business unit, which Tender Approval Procedure, it includes unit level and Group level. This includes builds civil infrastructure projects primara business unit-level board to review checking Skanska’s partners regarding ily on the US East and West coasts, was significant or high-risk projects before compliance with ethics and sanctions. challenged in several different projects. bidding and a dedicated risk manager Through this iterative process with The business unit had taken on some to drive this uniform process. Also, we multiple levels of review, Skanska has projects with high risk profiles and that adopted the philosophy of ‘no team, no come to fully understand the risk profiles began to negatively impact performance. bid’ – we won’t bid for a project unless of projects and can then price those risks As part of guarding against future a team with the right competencies and appropriately and submit a strong bid. write-downs Skanska started planning experiences is available. We will not take “Since launching our new risk for a more stringent and structured risk on work that exceeds the capacity of our management procedure, the number management procedure. organization and our people,” says Jeff. of projects that have lost money has Jeff Langevin oversees risk manageAdditionally, all construction business quickly and dramatically decreased. We ment for Skanska USA Civil. He explains units undertook a ‘sweet spot analysis’ believe the single biggest factor in this how Skanska USA Civil substantially that examined the prior 15 years of improvement in Skanska USA Civil is our strengthened its risk management proprojects to determine what project types strengthened risk approach – it’s setting cess to improve financial performance. and conditions have been most successour projects up for success before they “Skanska USA Civil decided to ful. From this research, Skanska USA put a shovel in the ground,” ends Jeff implement a new risk management Civil developed a 14-factor ‘go/no go’ Langevin. process. It focuses on making sure we evaluation tool for determining whether take on projects that are right for us. the company will proceed with a bid. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 55 Sustainability Report Sustainability report Sustainability is grounded in Skanska values and way of working. This enables Skanska to deliver better solutions for customers, drive operational efficiency, attract employees, manage risks and support society in many ways. To Skanska sustainability is a business advantage, contributing to delivering profit and shareholder value. Working to prevent corruption, promoting to human rights, labor, environment and parency International and applies the a safe and healthy work environment and anti-corruption. This sustainability report ­Precautionary Principle. a climate smart society are main priorities constitutes Skanska’s Communication on to Skanska. This must be built on diversity Progress and shows how the Group has United Nations Sustainable and gender equality. Skanska is striving to continued to implement the Ten Principles ­Development Goals ­create an inclusive working environ­ment. during 2019. Skanska has an ambition and a­ bility to conSkanska supports the rights of all p­ eople tribute to the United Nations S­ ustainable Global commitments as described in the Universal Declaration Development Goals. The nature of Skanska has been a signatory of the United of Human Rights adopted by the United ­Skanska’s business guides which goals to Nations Global Compact since 2001 Nations, and in the conventions of the focus on. Skanska has identified seven and continues to support the UN Global International Labor Organization. Skanska goals that are of particular importance. ­Compact’s Ten Principles, which relate also follows the guiding policies of TransUnited Nations Sustainable D ­ evelopment Goals Goal 5 Goal 8 Goal 9 Goal 11 Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 16 Achieve gender Promote sustained Build resilient infraMake cities and Ensure sustainable Take urgent action Promote peaceful equality and ­em­inclusive and sustain­ structure, promote ­human settleconsumption and to combat climate and inclusive societies power all women able economic inclusive and ments inclusive, production ­patterns. change and its for sustainable deand girls. growth, full and ­sustainable industrisafe, ­resilient and impacts. velopment, provide ­productive employalization and foster ­­sustainable. access to justice for ment and decent innovation. all and build effective work for all. accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Awards Ratings Partnerships within sustainability Top-ranking in the Capital Goods CDP Climate A­category in the Sustainability ComMSCI AAA panies 2019 at Nasdaq Nordic by Lund University and Dagens Industri in Sweden. The award covers sevIndexes eral sustainability areas, including OMX Stockholm 30 ESG ­environmental and social aspects, Responsible Index as well as anti-corruption. FTSE4Good Fortune – Change the world 2019. Ranked #20 56 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report The areas below have been identified as being most integral to Skanska, based on the materiality assessment, and set the framework for the Group’s work within sustainability. Health and Safety Green Community ­Investment Ensuring people’s health and safety Climate change and carbon ­reduction Developing sustainable cities and Skanska is committed to creating an incluSkanska strives to drive environmental ­communities sive workplace where health and safety development and pushes toward futureBy planning and shaping the physical is top priority for all employees and subproof projects. Skanska’s e­ nvironmental environment for the people who will live, contractors. Ensuring people’s health and commitment focus on the impact of operwork and spend time there, it is possible safety is an ongoing challenge for the conations, processes and performance of to increase well-being, security and inclustruction industry and Skanska drives for buildings and infrastructure delivered by sion. In cooperation with citizens, local higher safety standards in all its markets. the Group. Skanska supports costumers to communities, authorities and other stakeachieve ambitious climate goals and helps holders, Skanska identifies how to address Read more on page 58 cities and communities to prepare and some of society’s social and environmenrespond to the changing conditions that is tal challenges and responds to needs in an effect of the climate change. the local society. Skanska aims to improve communities through holistic design Ethics Read more on page 66 solutions in the physical environment. Understanding and guarding against Read more on page 73 ethical risks Energy efficiency and circular To Skanska, ethics work is a virtuous use of resources ­circle where doing business in the right Resource efficiency, reduced and c­ ircular way, free from corruption and other ­unethical behavior, creates a climate of use of materials and minimized waste Diversity and Inclusion are important aspects of decreasing trust and cooperation where employees, ­Skanska’s environmental impact as well Fostering a diverse and inclusive subcontractors, customers and partners as ­increasing operational efficiency. culture can thrive. This is the best environment Skanska aims to mirror the diversity of for successful and long-lasting economic Read more on page 70 society, which strengthens the b­ usiness. growth. Ethics is good business for all An inclusive working environment f­ osters parties. healthy and safe work conditions. To Skanska, an inclusive culture is characRead more on page 62 terized by openness, fairness, trust and respect. It means that all employees have the same opportunity to contribute to the Responsible supply chain work and have equal career and developThe construction sector is characterized by ment opportunities. long and complex supply chains. Skanska is no exception and engages with large and Read more on page 76 small suppliers of goods and services of all types. Skanska’s Code of Conduct and due diligence process guide the Group’s relationships with s­ uppliers to ensure that global human rights are guarded as well as fair working conditions for people working on or in the Group’s projects. Read more on page 64 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 57 Sthlm New | Stockholm | Sweden Health and Safety Skanska aspires to achieve a safe working environment and good working conditions for all employees and subcontractors working on the construction sites. This commitment goes beyond safety to also include responsibility for people’s health, and to create an inclusive culture where all members of Skanska’s diverse workforce can thrive and fully contribute. 58 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Health and Safety Ensuring people’s health and safety Construction is an industry with risk of Skanska continuously strives for higher both values and procedures. The annual injuries and long-term health-hazards, industry standards by involving competemployee survey shows that 88 percent due to such as noise, dust and poor­­ergoitors and partners. It is mandatory for all think Skanska is c­ ommitted to improvnomics. Skanska addresses this through business units to be certified to the ISO ing the safety in their workplace, which high health and safety standards, an inclu45001 standard. All business units are exceeds the industry norm by nine percent. sive culture and improved follow-up and ­certified or will finalized the implemen­ A cultural change p ­ rogram, Injury-Free focused actions, corresponding to United tation during 2020. Environment, started in 2004 and has been Nations Sustainable Development Goal 8 Each business unit undertakes an annual adopted by the majority of Skanska’s busi– Decent work and economic growth. review of health and safety performance. ness units. Business unit-specific health This review includes identifying risks and and safety management system training Driving higher standards within control measures and setting a plan of has also been developed. health and safety focused activities for the coming year. In 2018, Skanska developed a new health In all the markets Skanska is driving for Each business unit also manages occuand safety program called Commitment improved safety within the construction pational health programs for its own into Action that specifically trains mansector. The Skanska Group Health and ­employees. Subcontractors are expected to agers in safety change management. This Safety Standard is more stringent than do the same for their employees. In some initiative aims to build the competence of local r­ egulations in several countries. It ­business units, there is an internal occupateams within the business units to improve applies across Skanska and is important to tional health service and in others, this is safety. The first pilots were performed further improve the safety performance contracted in. 2018, and during 2019 the program has of the Group and the subcontractors. The been rolled out in business units. Managestandard covers aspects that include trainA safe and caring culture ment teams in 11 of 13 business units have ing, incident management, risk assessA highly engaged, informed and trusting been trained during 2019. ment, personal protective equipment and workforce enhances health and safety. As instructions for the most important workpart of developing people, Skanska’s health ing procedures on the construction sites. and safety educational programs include Read more on page 80. Supporting a safer construction industry Skanska has been a part of the ­creation of a new health and safety training facility near Stockholm, ­Sweden, that opened in 2019. This center will train about 6,000 ­workers per year. It will in­corporate ten ­training stations based on high-risk construction activities, ­emphasizing the importance of preparing for and ­planning construction tasks. ­Participants will engage with ­various ­s­­cenarios and are expected to reflect on health and safety aspects and what they in their roles can do to prevent risks. Beyond construction industry employees, customers and students from engineering and construction schools are also invited to visit the center to expand their understanding of health and safety. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 59 Sustainability Report Health and Safety Improved follow-up and strategic actions on health and safety Safety performance is measured using both f­ urther actions were taken such as changes Fatalities leading and lagging indicators. The indicain the leadership and stregthening the Number tors include both Skanska employees and project organization. 10 subcontractors working on sites. One of Skanska has seen positive development the leading indicators is ESSV (­Executive in health and safety work. To be more prosafety site visits) to promote a clear and active and achieve continuous improve­visible leadership. The group target for ments, leadership in health and safety has 5 ESSV for 2019 was above 3000. The outbeen a focus for the Group Leadership come was more than 4000. Team during 2019 and continues in 2020. The lost time accident rate was 3.1, It is a priority in the Group to strive for including subcontractors working on sites, zero fatalities. 0 which is a decrease compared to 2018. In 2019 a deep analysis of the data on 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The number of fatalities ranges between potential and actual fatalities was perthree and five per year since 2012. One of formed. The results show that lifting, l­oad­Skanska’s largest projects has experienced ing and lowering are the most critical several fatalities since the project started operations for injuries. This insight will in 2015. Skanska has carried out s­ everal form the basis for an action plan for 2020. actions to prevent accidents. In 2019, Read more on page 80. 60 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Buildings for health and well-being People increasingly want workplaces that support their well-being. Skanska’s project Epic, in Malmö, Sweden, targeted to be WELL-certified, is among a new generation of offices with wellbeing in focus. Patrik Ölvebäck, Sweden manager for Spaces, a global provider of co-working and office spaces explains what matters most to his customers. Global trends such as urbanization and When it comes to office spaces, economic growth drives demand for and Skanska has adopted the offering to investments in sustainable offices. With further focus on health, well-being and flexible forms of employment, increassafety. To bring Spaces to Malmö, Patrik ing health awareness and an aging popchose Skanska’s Epic office development, ulation retiring later, the quality of the which Skanska created with a special working environment is growing increasfocus on enhancing the well-being of ingly important. This development prothose working there. vides an opportunity for Skanska to inno“We spend 90 percent of our lives vate the way the company thinks about inside different buildings, so it is essential office environments and to build for a that those buildings help us perform better society. Skanska strives to understand customers’ needs and to help them at and be our best. Greenery, fresh air and daylight are important aspects of »It is essential that be successful in their business. this. Office areas also need to include buildings help us perform Most employees do not have a choice of where they work every day – Patrik many different types of work zones, such as quiet areas and collaboration at and be our best. « Ölvebäck caters to those who do. Patrik is spaces to accommodate the different Patrik Ölvebäck the Sweden Country Manager for IWG, a activities in an office. Skanska develops Country Manager Sweden, IWG global provider of co-working and office and constructs buildings that meet spaces with brands as Spaces and Regus. these needs, aiming to help tenants in “Many people today, especially achieving healthy working environments those earlier in their careers, are very for today and for many years to come.” demanding in terms of their working Patrik ends. environment. Employers need to offer inspiring, healthy and highly functional places to win the ‘war on talent’”, says Patrik. Focused on health and well-being Skanska created the office development Epic in Malmö, Sweden, with a special focus on enhancing the well-being of those working there. Epic’s hub is a glass-roofed, light-filled atrium that splits the building and climbs its entire six-story height, linking the outside and inside. Within the atrium is a welcoming central stairway that encourages walking between floors, much greenery to soothe passersby and a bicycle station. The atrium is comprised of many upcycled and reused materials, including wooden wall panels incorporated from a nearby demolition property. Epic is targeting WELL Building Standard v1, Gold level – an international certification highlighting health and well-being to create high-performing workplaces. The criteria are based on scientific studies and include air, light, fitness, comfort and mind. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 61 Spark | Warsaw | Poland Ethics Corruption and ethical breaches make long-lasting economic growth more challenging to attain, increase inequality and hinder human rights. Ethics is a main priority to Skanska as it makes out the framework that ensures that business is conducted in an ethical safe and responsible ways. Skanska’s initiatives in this area correspond to United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions. 62 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Ethics Ethics is good business Skanska has a comprehensive Code of Anti-corruption Ethical risk is also considered as part of Conduct which defines how all employPreventing corruption is an importthe project approval process and i­ dentified ees work and interact everyday with colant part of Skanska’s Code of Conduct, transactional risk and due diligence on leagues, customers and other stakeholders. complemented by the Anti-Corruption potential key parties form part of the mateIt covers many topics from corruption and ­Policy which offers further guidance on rials for review. financial crime to bullying and inclusive ­specific situations that may be encounbehavior. It connects all parts of the Group tered. This mandatory Group Policy has Reporting ethichal breaches with Skanska’s values, strengthening the been reviewed by the Board of D ­ irectors, Fostering a speak up culture, where business. Group Leadership Team and all business employees feel empowered to address A review of the Code of Conduct is unit management teams as part of the govissues is crucial to enabling the ­e­mployees undertaken annually to ensure it remains ernance implementation program. In to live Skanska’s values. The 2019 employee up-to-date and relevant. The 2019 review 2019, anti-corruption training was made survey showed that 83 percent felt free to resulted in an increased focus on human available to all employees with additional express concerns without fear of n ­ egative rights, and work will continue in this direce-learning for more “at risk” roles. consequences. This surpasses the ­industry tion throughout 2020. benchmark by almost 20 percentage Guarding against ethical risks points. Code of Conduct training The construction and development s­ ector is Skanska encourages reporting of possible Training in Skanska’s Code of ­Conduct is known to carry high ethical risks. Skanska ethical breaches and offers protection via given a high priority. All e­ mployees are works hard to identify and mitigate these the no retaliation policy. A variety of interrequired to be trained within one month risks to prevent breaches which have the nal reporting options are offered. Where of starting employment. In 2019 this potential to damage the business. reporters wishes to remain anonymous, was achieved in 94 percent of the cases. There is a continuous two-year program they can use Skanska’s hotline, which is Refresher training is carried out on a twoof ethics risk assessment and assurance operated by a third party and is open to year rolling basis and is mandatory for all review which is carried out in all b­ usiness employees and external stakeholders. employees – a target that was achieved by units. The risk assessment takes the form Cases which are assessed as higher risk 98 percent in 2019. Training may be held in of workshops in which participants are are reported to the Group Leadership person or taken as e-learning. drawn from all levels and functions to proTeam and the Board of Directors. Formal Code of Conduct training is supvide a meaningful and balanced view of Confirmed breaches of the Code of plemented by dilemma discussions which the actual ethics risk within their ­specific ­Conduct may result in disciplinary action are held regularly in all workplaces. These area of expertise. In 2019 more than 300 including termination of employment. help to familiarize employees with the employees took part in 20 workshops. This occurred during 2019. An employee ­difficult decisions which sometimes need Practical actions are taken in each b ­ usiness who violates anti-corruption or other to be made when they are confronted with unit to address the ethics risks that are ­relevant laws may also be referred to law situations in “grey areas”. identified and the effectiveness of these will enforcement authorities for possible Targeted training is also carried out for be assessed in the ethics assurance reviews ­criminal prosecution. relevant roles in, for example, competition which will take place in 2020. The aggregated law and bribery and corruption. results of the risk assessments inform the Group Ethics work going forward. Read more on page 80. 94% Code of Conduct training Code of Conduct Hotline reporting In 2019, a total of 190 reports were received via the Code of Conduct hotline. Cases are categorized in line with the topics in Skanska’s Code of Conduct. The largest number of reports, 94 in 2019, were concerned with HR-related ­matters, relating to behavior in the workplace, such as discrimination, rather first month of employment. than the market or the community. Reports in the categories of anti-corruption, fraud and money laundering are much less common. In 2019, Skanska dealt with four cases which were classified specifically as anti-corruption. One of them was substantiated as a breach and one is still under investigation. None of them were considered very high risk after initial investigation. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 63 Sustainability Report Ethics Responsible supply chain The construction and development sector is characterized by long and complex supply chains. Skanska has a supply chain consisting of suppliers of goods and materials, along with a variety of service providers including professional consultants and sub-contractors, performing work on project sites. The construction sector is mainly regional and the contractors stretch from large corporations to one-person businesses. It is important that Skanska’s ethical standards also extend to the supply chain in­ sofar as this is within S­ kanska’s control. Skanska works with more than 300,000 suppliers across the Group, which means it is vital that business processes are robust enough to ensure that both local laws and the Code of Conduct are upheld. Supplier screening The first line of defense is to endeavor to do business with third parties who also share Skanska’s values. The Group c­ arries out a risk-based assessment followed by deeper due diligence for certain categories of supplier or if the initial assessment indicates this is necessary. Mandatory due d ­ iligence is carried out for i­ ntermediaries, joint ­venture partners and sellers or b ­ uyers of land or real estate assets. Skanska attempts c­ ontracts. It contains those sections of the impacted by the Group’s business and to to gain an understanding of the ­ethical Code of Conduct which are relevant for ensure Skanska promotes and protects culture of these third parties as well as ­suppliers and sets the standard Skanska them throughout the supply chain. obtaining specific information on previexpects during the working relationship. Workers’ rights are particularly signifi­ ous anti-corruption or competition law Deviations from these standards may have cant and Skanska aims to ensure that violations, possible conflicts related to the consequences, including termination. conditions are fair at all the workplaces. transaction and other indicators of risk. Skanska has zero tolerance towards any The Group also ensures that the u ­ ltimate Human rights form of human trafficking, forced or child beneficial owners of the parties that The Skanska Code of Conduct and the labor and is vigilant to ensure that this does Skanska does business with are known. ­Supplier Code integrate human rights not affect anyone working on the sites. Since 2018 the screening process has aspects. Skanska is working to be more included checking relevant sanctions lists. specific about the rights which are In 2019 an automated process came into operation, that uses a global database to check all active suppliers, according to the Protecting human rights and ­ensuring safety on site Group’s sanctions procedure, every 24 hours. Skanska UK is currently focusing on heightening the awareness of all p ­ roject teams to look out for the signs of modern slavery, and ensure that all sub­ Contracts and Supplier Code of Conduct contractors, and their subcontractors, are meeting the requirements. Skanska UK Once Skanska is ready to go forward with a has in place a compliance framework designed to cover its legal ­requirements supplier, it is ensured that the terms agreed under the UK’s Modern Slavery Act. In addition, Skanska UK has also been will offer the opportunity for continuous active in engaging with its direct sub-contractors and have made online t­ raining monitoring and audit if appropriate. An ­materials available to all suppliers via the Supply Chain Sustainability School. option to terminate the agreement in the During the year, Skanska UK has produced a toolkit which was cascaded to event of major breaches, such as corrupall projects and included such items as a checklist for Skanska people in site tion or inclusion on the sanctions list, is ­induction, a guidance note explaining Skanska’s approach to modern slavery in usually included. more detail, a Toolbox Talk slide deck, site posters, and an ethical dilemma for Skanska also requires its Supplier Code teams to discuss. of Conduct to be incorporated into all 64 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Speaking-up for safety Building supply chain partners’ understanding within safety is crucial to ensuring the safe delivery of projects. Ensuring safe construction projects how to help improve construction site requires contributions from every person safety provides important insight and – and every company – operating on site. builds trust. Cultivating an injury-free environment “The Injury-Free Environment program that inspires safe behavior is key to preaddresses a major construction industry vent incidents. Among Skanska’s many safety challenge: workers not believing partners in the Group’s journey toward they can really speak up if they notice minimizing injuries is L.Lynch Plant Hire something potentially unsafe. They might and Haulage, which has been supplying not think they truly have the authority equipment and operators to Skanska UK to question supervisors or stop working, projects for more than ten years. even though that is what we need them “Years ago, I was the first person in to do. The Injury-Free Environment proour business to be trained in Skanska’s gram stresses that you have to make sure Injury-Free Environment program, which employees feel trusted and empowered Rob Lynch, Director, L.Lynch reinforces every worker’s responsibility to bring up any safety concerns,” says for the safety of themselves and those Rob. around them. Now hundreds of L.Lynch In the construction sector, subcontracemployees have been through the traintors are heavily influenced by their main ing and we have made the Injury-Free customers. Therefore, it is important for Environment training an official part of Skanska to take responsibility for promotthe Lynch company culture and way of ing a safe and respectful culture. One working”, says Rob Lynch. way to speak-up and report misconduct Skanska’s goal is to change the workis through Skanska’s Code of Conduct force culture to be proactive rather than Hotline, which is accessible to both reactive. To succeed in this, collaborating employees and outside parties, including with subcontractors is essential. Asking clients, suppliers and subcontractors. for subcontractors’ input and advice on Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 65 Växjö Station och kommunhus | Växjö | Sweden Green Skanska strives to increase the demand for climate-smart solutions and seeks out partnerships for innovation within sustainability. The environmental commitment affects all the Group’s operations and processes, as well as the long-term environmental performance of buildings and infrastructure delivered by the Group. 66 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Green Climate change and carbon reduction 2045 Skanska supports the Paris Agreement and from the production of materials. Most seeks to reduce carbon emissions from of the emissions from Skanska’s projects the Group’s operations. Skanska provides come from the production of materials sustainable solutions and propositions to such as concrete, steel and asphalt. Close Targeted year for net-zero carbon help customers, communities, investors cooperation with suppliers and customers emissions for Skanska Group. and other stakeholders fulfil their climate is necessary to decrease emissions in the ambitions. value chain. Skanska has set a Group target of achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2045, Changing market demands within the whole value chain1. The value Skanska expects the market demands for chain includes suppliers, subcontractors low-carbon solutions to increase over the and those connected to the use phase of the coming years. In all Skanska’s m ­ arkets, Green concrete buildings and infrastructure that Skanska changes in policies are expected with the In the beginning of 2019, creates. aim of reducing carbon emissions. These Skanska Sweden launched The target will be guiding in Skanska’s may include carbon targets, national and Green Concrete. Green conwork on reducing the climate impact from regional regulations, carbon r­ eduction crete emits up to 50 percent less its business. Details of the Skanska Group’s requirements in public procurement and carbon than regular concrete climate target are to be found on page 81. changes to building standards. The N ­ ordic because some of the cement has countries and the UK are at the forefront been replaced with slag. It has An opportunity to make a great impact of this and the EU is aiming to be ­carbon the same durability, strength and on emissions reduction neutral by 2050, which will also affect quality as regular concrete but The construction and buildings sector ­Skanska’s markets in Central Europe. In is a more sustainable alternative. accounts for 40 percent of the global energy the USA, many of the states and c­ ities related carbon emissions2. The emissions where Skanska operates are i­ ncreasing involve extraction, manufacturing and their focus on climate change with new transport of large quantities of materials, ­climate ­policies and action plans. To be in as well as construction activities. Furtherthe forefront in offering low-­carbon solumore, buildings and civil infrastructure tions creates business opportunities for have very long life cycles and environmen­ Skanska and is a way of being prepared for tal impacts lasting for several decades the expected market conditions resulting through their final use and operation. from new regulations and taxation. A large part of the carbon e­ missions from the construction sector o ­ riginate Read more on page 81. Carbon emissions in Skanska’s value chain The carbon emissions in Skanska’s value chain originate from the supply chain, the construction operations and the operational phase. A large part of the carbon emissions originate from the production of materials. Supply chain Construction operations Operational phase 1 Carbon in this context means all greenhouse gases, i.e. carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). 2 UNEP, Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction: 2018 Global Status Report Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 67 Sustainability Report Green Reduced carbon emissions Carbon emissions in Skanska´s operations Since 2009, Skanska has publicly reported 500,000 3.0 the Group’s scope 1 and 2 carbon emisCarbon Intensity (Tonnes CO2e/MSEK revenue). sions. A limited assurance of S­ kanska’s 400,000 ­carbon reporting is undertaken by Tonnes CO2e (Thousands) ­Skanska’s external auditors. As a part of 2.5 300,000 Skanska’s governance framework that was reviewed, updated and implemented in 200,000 2018, the Group’s reporting procedures, 2.0 follow-up and the traceability of reported 100,000 data have further improved. Since 2015 carbon emissions have decreased by 28 0 1.5 percent. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Getting information about carbon emisCarbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) sions throughout the value chain is a chalCarbon Intensity (Tonnes CO2e/SEK M revenue) lenge. It is necessary to receive information from suppliers of services and materials as well as end-users or, if this is not possible, opment USA, USA Civil and USA Building c­ ircular use of ­materials – such as to make estimates. a limited assurance was performed by EY. recycling and reusing materials, and In 2018 Skanska started reporting carThis amounts to 720,468 tonnes of carbon minimizing transport. Often reducing bon emissions in the value chain (scope 3). ­dioxide equivalent (CO2e). carbon emissions goes hand in hand This was developed further in 2019, with Skanska’s integration of s­ ustainability with improving e­ fficiency and resource improved methods of data collection and information into the reporting cycle and efficiency, thus helping to lower costs. follow-up. For the reported scope 3 data the company’s adoption of sustainable Being able to safely reuse a foundation for the business units Skanska Sweden, practices correspond to United Nations rather than d­ emolishing it and building Skanska UK, Commercial Property DevelSustainable Development Goal 12 – a new one, for example, requires less Responsible consumption and production. equipment, fuel and m ­ aterials. This results in reduced emissions and reduced costs. Carbon emissions Reducing carbon emissions throughout One example is L ­ aGuardia airport, New -28% the value chain York, USA. The airport was designed to be Analysis carried out in Skanska’s business able to use less m­ aterials and the concrete units has identified important actions was reused, which decreased the need for reducing emissions from Skanska’s for transpor­tation. As a result, carbon operations. These include a transition to emissions were reduced. Reduction of carbon emissions fossil­free fuel and energy, more efficient since 2015. or electric vehicles, more efficient or Read more on page 81. Actions to reduce carbon emissions range from the planning phase through construction to demolition CO2 CO2 Innovative design Circularity New materials Renewable energy Electric vehicles Efficient transports 68 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Green Climate change increases the need to build for resilience The changing climate has already put pressure on the society due Integrating climate resiliency into p ­ roject developments to higher frequency of storms, flooding, drought, heat waves, forSkanska strives to ensure that projects developed by the Group are est fires and water scarcity. The demand for resilient buildings and resilient to the effects of climate change and secure the long-term infrastructure, such as water and power systems as well as transvalue of the buildings. For example, when exploring ­potential portation, will increase. The need for climate adaption is increassites to acquire for project development, Skanska Commercial ing as the climate change impact and the effects of urbanization Develop­ment USA is piloting a digital climate modelling tool to is becoming more tangible in cities around the world. Skanska examine potential long-term flood risks. helps cities and communities prepare for the consequences of the In Boston, USA, Skanska implemented design and adaptation climate change. Skanska’s operations in this area correspond to strategies that account for the area’s vulnerability to severe weather United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 11 – Sustainable and flooding when developing buildings located near the harbor. cities and communities, and Goal 13 – Climate action. These actions included elevating mechanical and electrical rooms Skanska has the possibility to support society with future-proof 12 meters above the 100-year floodplain and making provisions solutions. This is already part of everyday business in several of for portable flood barriers that can be easily installed around the Skanska’s markets. Skanska’s experience and knowledge in this building perimeter to protect against flood water intrusion. area are expected to be even more in demand in the future. Skanska has rebuilt the Rockaway Beach Boardwalk, in New York, USA, which was destroyed in the hurricane Sandy 2012. The new boardwalk is elevated and has a steel-reinforced concrete deck. Cooperating to reduce carbon Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures ­emissions in the value chain The financial sector is demanding more information on climate related dis­ Skanska contributed during 2019 to two closures related to business risks and opportunities. reports and participated in the launches In 2017, the organization Task Force on Climate-Related Financial during the Climate Week NYC in S­ eptember. Disclosures (TFCD), chaired by Michael Bloomberg, issued recommendations First, the World Green Building Council’s to corporations on how to disclose climate-related financial information. The “Bringing Embodied Carbon Upfront”, which reasoning behind is that increased transparency makes markets more efficient lays out key actions to decarbonize all phases and economies more stable and resilient. Through consistent, reliable discloof the construction and buildings sector by sures by companies facing risks related to climate change, market participants 2050. Second, the report “Exponential Roadof all kinds will be better prepared to evaluate and manage business risks and map – s­ caling 36 solutions to halve emissions opportunities related to climate. by 2030” is the result of collaboration between Skanska participated during 2019, together with Landlease, Saint-Gobain academia, industry and NGOs, including among others, in a Preparer Forum initiated by Bloomberg Foundation and Ericsson, S­ ­­cania and WWF, led by the StockWorld’s Business Council for Sustainable Development, to support implemenholm Resilience Centre. tation of TCFD recommendations in the construction sector. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 69 Sustainability Report Green Energy efficiency and circular use of resources Skanska aims to improve energy efficiency erated waste that goes to landfill across the ings and infrastructure. In many markets, in both construction operations and within Group has declined from close to 30 perwater is regarded as a scarce resource and the use of buildings. In addition, fossil fuels cent to about 6 percent. Several projects is therefore recognized as a priority area are increasingly substituted with renewhave gone even further, aiming to generate on the Skanska Color Palette™. In 2016, able energy. However, this is challenging zero waste, in which all waste m ­ aterials are Skanska started collecting water data on in some of Skanska’s markets, as the availput to reuse or recycling in circular loops, Group level as part of its reporting to the ability of renewable energy sources is limsuch as ESS, in Lund, Sweden, and ­Georgia global environmental disclosure systemited. Increased energy efficiency is vital Tech Kendeda Center in Atlanta, USA. CDP. for reducing carbon emissions and costs A sustainable use of materials is a focus Skanska’s operations in this area corre­ both within Skanska’s own operations area in Skanska’s Color Palette . spond to United Nations Sustainable and among customers and end-users. The On all projects, Skanska commonly Development Goal 8 – Decent work and energy usage in Skanska’s operations 2019 includes subcontractor waste in the reporteconomic growth, Goal 9 – Industry, is 1,277,940 MWh, a reduction with 5 pering. Materials containing hazardous subinnovation and infrastructure, Goal 11 – cent since 2018. stance components ending up as waste are Sustain­able cities and communities, and handled according to local regulations. Goal 12 – Responsible consumption and Circularity and resource efficiency This is tracked by measuring the amount production. Resource efficiency, reduced and c­ ircular of waste generated from projects in the use of materials as well as minimized local market. Read more on page 81–82. waste generation are connected to operational efficiency and reduced environmenWater usage tal impact. Since 2008, Skanska has a t­ arget As a construction and project developfor reduction of waste, of less than five ment company, Skanska has a considerable ­percent of self-generated waste to landimpact on water use, both during the confill. More than ten years later, the self-genstruction phase and the end use of buildEnergy reduction in new office Self-generated waste to landfill 2008–2019 buildings -37% % 20 15 Annual energy reduction in divested office buildings 10 developed by Commercial Development Nordics, Europe 5 and USA compared to average. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Pioneering a circular approach to concrete production In the Czech Republic, waste from natural aggregates, called Rebetong. lition waste sent to landfill, about 12 construction and building demolition This patented ­technology was develpercent less carbon emissions comaccounts for up to half of the counoped by the Czech company ERCpared to regular concrete, and reduced try’s waste, and the supply of natural TECH. This will be further developed cost. Furthermore, as ­Rebetong has aggregates is decreasing. To address together with Skanska. The ­circular better insulating properties than both challenges in a sustainable way, approach enables new buildings to be ­regular concrete it helps lower energy Skanska is the world’s first concrete ­constructed from other buildings at ­consumption throughout the building ­s­upplier that uses 100 percent recycled the end of their life cycle. Benefits from lifecycle. concrete or masonry to fully replace using this concrete include less demo70 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 An energy-positive building that powers itself and its surroundings Powerhouse Brattørkaia aims to take the environmental persons. The roof is sharply pitched at 19.7 degrees to provide the formance of buildings to a higher level. Brattørkaia is the first optimum angle for the almost 3,000 square meters of photonew office building produced by Powerhouse, a Norwegian voltaic panels to harvest as much solar energy as possible. The ­collaboration of companies – including Skanska – dedicated to solar panels covering Brattørkaia’s roof and facade produce ­creating energy-positive, low-carbon buildings. This office buildabout 500,000 kWh annually – more than twice as much elecing generates more energy than it uses over a 60-year life­span. tricity as the building needs daily, on average. After Brattørkaia Included in that timespan are energy and carbon emissions meets its own energy needs, excess energy flows via a microfrom material production, the construction process and buildgrid to a­ djacent buildings and to charging equipment for elecing operations. tric buses, cars and boats. Also, energy for heating and cooling The aim of the project is threefold; to maximize the amount comes from the nearby Norwegian Sea. of clean energy generated by the building, to minimize the Brattørkaia sets new standards in energy efficiency. For energy required to run it, and to serve as a pleasant space for its instance, the building’s frame of low-carbon concrete absorbs tenants and the general public. and retains heat and cold, helping to regulate office tempera­ This eight-story building provides a comfortable and ­inviting tures naturally. Also, the structure’s enormous oval ­opening work environment, and yet it is essentially an urban power pulls sunlight into interior offices, minimizing the need for plant. The building’s site has been carefully chosen to ensure ­artificial lighting. maximum exposure to the sun throughout the day and seaSkanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 71 Sustainability Report Green External sustainability certifications and the Skanska Color Palette™ Supporting and using third-party environsustainability certification system for civil vision of Green and Deep Green projects mental certification systems for building infrastructure in the USA that is now used according to four environmental priority and infrastructure projects is important in by 45 government agencies in USA. areas: energy, carbon, materials and water. order to raise the bar for the industry and Skanska has pioneered the use of the Green refers to when the construction also constantly develop Skanska. Certifiinternational CEEQUAL ­infrastructure processes or building and infrastructure cations used by Skanska include the Livsustain­ability certification system in performance are beyond compliance on ing Building Challenge, LEED, Envision, Sweden, Norway and Finland. Skanska several defined indicators. The Vanilla level BREEAM, CEEQUAL, WELL, Svanen and Commercial Development Nordics is comprises compliance with ISO 14001 and Fitwell. In 2019 Skanska divested 18 Comdeveloping a standard for net-zero buildwith local legislation. Deep Green projects mercial Properties certified with WELL, ings together with the Swedish Green have low environmental impact, ensuring LEED (Platinum or Gold) and BREAM Building Council. that the project is future-proof. In 2019, (Excellent) with a value of SEK 15.4 billion, two Deep Green projects were completed, representing 90 percent of Skanska’s total Skanska Color Palette™ Esplanaden, Sweden and Powerhouse divestments. Since 2009, the Skanska Color ­Palette™ Kjörbo, Norway. Skanska has contributed expertise and has been Skanska’s environmental support to developing Envision, a major ­management system. It defines Skanska’s The Brock Environmental Center in Virginia Beach, USA has successfully completed the Full Living Building Challenge, one of the most comprehensive programs for green certification. Skanska Color Palette™ Certified commercial buildings share of total Vanilla – Compliance Green – Beyond Compliance Deep Green – Future Proof divestments 90% Energy Net-Zero Primary Energy Carbon Near-Zero Carbon Construction Share of total value, Materials Zero Unsustainable ­corresponding to SEK Materials 15.4 billion, of divested Zero Hazardous offices in the ­Commercial Materials Property Development Zero Waste ­business stream, ­certified with WELL, LEED (Platinum Water Net-Zero Water or Gold) or BREEAM­ ­(Excellent). 72 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sollentunamässan Activity area | Sollentuna | Sweden Community ­Investment Skanska aims to improve cities and communities by developing holistic design solutions and shaping the physical environment for the people who will live, work and spend time there. In cooperation with citizens, local communities, authorities and other stakeholders, Skanska identifies how to address some of society’s social and environmental challenges and responds to needs in the local society. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 73 Sustainability Report Community Investment Developing sustainable cities and communities Skanska is committed to supporting local possible, employment. When it comes to social and economic criteria are most communities by leveraging the Group’s education, Skanska supports schools and important to public customers is vital to business to address local social challenges. other organizations by providing students identifying business opportunities. Skanska’s approach to community investwith role models and learning opportuniment strives to jointly benefit local comties to help inspire further study. Through Driving demand for s­ ustainable city munities, customers and the business. The designing for social impact, Skanska development Group’s three Community Investment strengthens communities by utilizing Skanska has the ability to contribute sigfocus areas include – employability, eduholistic design solutions for projects. This nificantly to United Nations S­ ustainable cation and design for social impact. can involve creating integrated movement Development Goal 11 – making cities patterns to reduce segregation or improve inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Community investment ­provides accessibility for people with disabilities. More than 50 percent of revenue in the shared value Construction stream comes from p ­ ublic Cities that are developed and planned Measuring social impact sector customers. Encouraging public based on people’s needs create security, There is a challenge in systematic, com­customers to increase demands regarding a sense of belonging and the feeling that parable ways to measure and report sustainable solutions and to seek added there is room for everyone. By designing economic and social impacts from comvalue in procurement provides great the physical environment for the people munity investment. However, Skanska ­business opportunities. who will live, work and spend time there, has started to explore ways to measure In cooperation with citizens, local comit is possible to increase inclusion. Skanska impacts more systematically. Measuring munities, authorities and other stakesees an opportunity to make positive business and societal impacts is the focus holders, Skanska identifies how to address progress on United Nations Sustainable of a strategic research collaboration with some of society’s most important social Development Goal 9 – Industry, innothe University of Örebro and Stockholm and environmental challenges. The develvation and infrastructure, and Goal 10 – School of Economics which began in 2018. opment towards more socially sustainable Reduce inequalities. The work from this partnership contincities is a trend that can be seen in several As part of Skanska’s work on employued in 2019. parts of the world. ability, opportunities for diverse groups Increasingly, providing value to ­society to enter the job m ­ arket are created. This is part of the public procurement p ­ rocess is done together with partners – by proin several of Skanska’s home m ­ arkets. viding skills, opportunities and, where Understanding what environmental, Enhancing the community through a better and safer passage In Bucharest, Romania, Skanska refurbished a tunnel leading from the subway station to Politehnica University and Skanska’s Campus 6 office development. Previously dark and graffiti covered, the tunnel had been perceived as unsafe and uninviting. Skanska installed bright lighting and security cameras, and lined the walls with images. Using design solutions to address social challenges is an important way to contribute to the local community and further b ­ enefit tenants of Campus 6. 74 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Integrating social sustainability into land allocation process Skanska is collaborating with the city of Malmö, Sweden, to integrate social sustainability further into the city’s land allocation process. The collaboration has resulted in two development projects, and the success of these pilot projects has already led to the city formalizing a policy to make social sustainability a regular part of city land transactions. Integrating sustainability requirements ways to develop land. This resulted in a into land allocation processes is one new city policy that will affect the city long of the most powerful ways to advance term and will steer the construction sector sustainable solutions. Focusing on towards taking a larger responsi­bility employability and education Skanska for the quality of life in the areas they engaged with officials of Malmö, develop. This collaboration also serves Sweden’s third-largest city, to explore a both parties’ aim to contribute to United new dimension of this – attaching social Nations Sustainable Development Goal sustainability requirements to the city’s 11 – Sustainable cities and communities. process of selling land. “The new land procurement policy » The new land pro­ “Over the last 20 years, Malmö has transformed from a heavy industrialized we created from working with Skanska will have a huge impact as the city still curement policy we city to a city that relies a lot on knowlowns 54 percent of the land in our ­created from working edge. Many company headquarters municipality. We believe we have created have come to Malmö, providing jobs for a policy that will assure Malmö get the with ­Skanska will have people with higher education. However, best of both worlds. We gain new office a huge impact. « many Malmö residents do not have that educational background, leading to the buildings or homes while we create jobs for those who lack education or don’t Andreas Schönström city having many unemployed people. have the right qualifications. If a comMunicipal counsellor in Malmö, Sweden That’s a gap we’re working hard to fix”, pany provides education or work for one says Andreas Schönström, the Malmö person, it’s all worth it. Not only from an municipal counsellor responsible for land economic point of view but also from a allocation. social point of view”, says Andreas. In collaborating with Skanska, the city of Malmö has been able to explore new Sustainability collaboration Skanska is collaborating with the city of Malmö on social sustainability partnerships linked to requirements in the land purchase from the city. With Sjösättningen, in developing residential buildings, including an elderly residence and a preschool. Skanska is including three aspects to enhance social sustainability: internships for job-seeking Malmö residents, a collaboration with nearby schools during construction and space for the operations of Yalla Trappan, a cooperative that helps foreign-born women integrate into Swedish society. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 75 Skanska HQ | Stockholm | Sweden Diversity and Inclusion To Skanska, an inclusive culture is characterized by openness, fairness, trust and respect. Skanska aim’s to mirror the diversity of the society, and believes that inclusive working environment fosters healthy and safe work conditions, which also strengthens the business. 76 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Diversity and Inclusion Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture Diverse and inclusive teams outperform Business units are responsible for adapthomogenous and non-inclusive teams, ing Skanska’s overall Diversity and IncluLaunching a parental leave and diverse and inclusive organizations sion Vision into appropriate action plans ­program for US employees increase their ability to attract and retain and targets. Targets for diversity and USA is one of few countries p ­ roviding great people. Diversity can be seen from inclusion have been part of all business no national paid leave for new parmany viewpoints, such as gender, ethnicunits’ business plans since 2015. ents. In 2019, Skanska launched a ity, age, education and professional backThis has also been a priority area for paid parental leave program for the ground. To Skanska, inclusion is based on the Group Leadership Team during 2019. Group’s employees in the USA. Covopenness, fairness, trust and respect and Skanska is specifically focusing on how to ering both birthing and non-­birthing means that all employees have the same attract, develop and retain people of difparents, along with adoptive and opportunity to contribute to the work and ferent genders in order to create a gender foster parents, this program provides have equal career opportunities and the diverse and gender ­inclusive workplace. parental and bonding benefits for up long term aim is that all employees feel a As an important step, in 2019 an analysis to 12 weeks. All of Skanska’s 3,300 sense of belonging, and that they can fully of diversity and inclusion was performed. full-time, salaried US employees are contribute and thrive within Skanska. The focus in 2020 will be on implementing eligible for these benefits. Skanska Skanska sees diversity and inclusion as actions based on the analysis. introduced this program to better critical factors affecting United Nations support current employees and to Sustainable Development Goal 5 – G ­ ender help attract new employees . equality and Goal 8 – Decent work and economic growth. Continued focus on diversity and inclusion Skanska’s annual employee survey A large proportion of the cases reported between countries, as well as legislations. (YVOS) shows that Skanska is m ­ aking to Code of Conduct Hotline and Ethics The construction industry is ­challenging continued progress within i­ nclusion. committee are related to lack of inclusion, from a gender perspective, being domiSkanska exceeds the global ­industry such as discrimination. nated by men. Out of Skanska’s e­ mployees, benchmark when it comes to ­having Regarding how colleagues care for each 82 percent are men and 18 percent are a workplace free from b ­ ullying and other and treat each other fairly, 84 perwomen. Hence, the gender equality is in harassment. In the survey, 86 percent cent agree that this is true for Skanska’s focus from a Group perspective. However, of e­ mployees agree that this is true for workplaces compared to the benchmark of the gender ratio differs between d ­ ifferent Skanska compared to the global industry 78 percent. The result has improved over professional groups, different b ­ usiness benchmark of 79 percent. Despite steady the last three years as well as the increased streams and different business units progress challenges remain, also in terms gap between Skanska and benchmark. within Skanska. Craft employees account of the most foundational aspects of in­The survey showed a correlation befor the most skewed gender ratio, 97 perclusion such as a workplace free from tween inclusive leadership and employees’ cent men and 3 percent women. In Com­bullying and harassment. effectiveness and intention to stay with mercial Property Development business Skanska. Thus, by the Group’s culture units, the number of men and women are and leadership becoming more inclusive, about even. this helps lessen a business risk of the lack Increasing the number of women in top or loss of key employees as well as lower positions – and throughout Skanska – is effectiveness. The survey also revealed a a long-term effort. Since 2018 the share of link between inclusive leadership and a women in senior positions (level 3–6) has culture of care, a key aspect in Skanska’s increased from 22 percent to 25 percent. safety work. Three of seven of the shareholder elected directors in Skanska’s Board are women. 43% Advancing gender equality Read more on page 83. Gender is the diversity component followed up at Group level. Other aspects of diversity, such as ethnicity or age Women in Skanska’s are tracked by business units but not Board of Directors. on Group level, since definitions differ Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 77 Helping America’s small businesses succeed In New York City, Spearhead Construction has benefited from knowledge gained through Skanska’s training program for US small businesses. In the USA, Skanska provides ­training important project information, including personnel, which has enabled our com­ to help small companies owned by payment systems, building information pany to take on greater opportunities with women and ethnic minorities compete modelling (BIM) and, of course, safety,” confidence,” says Andee. for ­business, to increase diversity among says Andee. “We are focused on building a company, subcontractors. Her company, which provides interior not chasing projects, which requires After a successful career that included construction services, is now working a more disciplined m ­ ethodology. Spearcombat service in the U.S. Army, in 2016 with Skanska on major New York projects head’s process is wholly inspired by Andee Hidalgo transferred her “mission-­ such as redeveloping LaGuardia Airport’s ­Skanska’s approach for selecting projects focused” leadership skills to a new environTerminal B. At LaGuardia, USD 684 and clients. As a result, we are adding ment by founding Spearhead Construction. million of the construction must be subsought after projects to our portfolio, we Andee reflects on Skanska’s Building Blocks contracted to minority or women-owned are adding talent to our roster and we training program and her journey of start­ing small businesses. are executing on our commitments at a and growing her company, which now has “Building Blocks prepared our comhigh level,” says Andee. about ten direct employees and approxipany to contribute to iconic projects like By providing education and support, mately 65 Union carpenters. LaGuardia. If there is a better program and by structuring work packages “Skanska’s Building Blocks training proout there, I’ve yet to find it. At LaGuardia, suitable for smaller or younger firms, gram is a great opportunity to learn more Skanska developed favorable labor proSkanska bolsters the Group’s supply about the complexities of major building visions that leveled the playing field for chain. This improves Skanska’s ability to projects. Over two months, experts from younger businesses like mine. Also, I am be competitive while strengthening the Skanska and other organizations shared grateful for the mentorship by ­Skanska industry and society. 78 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Non-financial information Sustainability governance Materiality assessment The management of sustainability follows the Group Governance Skanska’s sustainability report and sustainability focus areas are based on an Framework and internal audit procedures see page 45. The Group assessment of the importance of the Group’s impact on sustainability topics Governance Framework is decided by the Board. The business units are according to key external and internal stakeholders. An open and ongoing responsible to comply with what is stated in the Group Policies and Group dialogue with stakeholders is a key component in day-to-day operations Procedures and Standards. The framework for sustainability is set by and long-term planning. This provides important insights regarding needs, the Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, expectations and challenges. One important tool for internal stakeholder Environmental Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Health and Safety Standard, dialogue is the annual Group-wide employee survey. Health and Safety Reporting Procedure, Green Reporting Procedure, The most important stakeholder groups to Skanska are: Color Palette Standard, Restricted Substance Standard, Health and Safety • Customers Road Map Standard, Procedure of the Code of Conduct Program, and the • Suppliers and subcontractors Community Investment and Sponsorship Standard. • Shareholders and investors To strengthen Skanska’s sustainability ambitions in relevance to business • Employees the Skanska Sustainability Business Forum, which includes members from • Society and local communities Group Leadership Team, is a body for anchoring strategic decisions. Its aim • Authorities and policymakers is to strengthen Skanska’s sustainability ambition and its relevance to the business. The governance structure for green bonds is established in the To identify Skanska’s most material sustainability areas, a materiality assessSkanska Green Bond Framework prepared by the Green Bond Committee, ment is performed every two years. During 2018, Skanska performed a which is headed by the Senior Vice President Sustainability. structured stakeholder dialogue – including an online survey and interviews Sustainability performance is assessed via key performance indicators and – with external and internal stakeholders. Key questions were selected the annual Group-wide employee survey (YVOS). Employees are annually and aligned with regulations, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, UN evaluated according to their capability to drive sustainability. Sustainability Global Compact, GRI Standards, along with current industry trends and – through health and safety parameters – is part of incentive programs for benchmarks. The responses were evaluated and mapped to identify the business unit management teams. most material sustainability areas. The next materiality assessment will be performed in 2020. Materiality assessment 1 Bribery and corruption Crucial 1 2 Anti-competitive behavior 3 Impact on climate change 2 12 4 Sustainable materials 11 4 15 3 5 Waste management Importance to 10 6 6 Energy efficiency 9 5 7 Water management 7 8 Impact on biodiversity 8 Skanska’s stakeholders 9 Sustainable industry 13 10  iversity, inclusiveness and D anti-discrimination 14 11 Fair and decent employment 12 S afe and healthy work environment Important 13 Training of employees 14 Contribution to society 15 Responsible supply chain Important Skanska’s impact on sustainability topics Crucial Anti-corruption Through the materiality assessment, the sustainability topics presented in the gray shaded area Environment were identified as the most material to Skanska’s external and internal stake­holders. Miscellaneous Social conditions and personnel Human rights Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 79 Sustainability Report Health and Safety Lost time accident rate (LTAR) Number of employee and subcontractor lost-time accidents multiplied by 1,000,000 hours and divided by total labor hours. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 LTAR 3.1 3.5 3.4 2.8 3.3 3.3 3.5 3.5 4.4 4.2 Skanska employees 3.5 Subcontractors 3.0 Number of accidents 2019 2018 2017 2016 Lost time accidents 566 712 730 638 Skanska employees 252 Subcontractors 314 Fatal accidents Number of fatalities on Skanska project worksites. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Fatalities 3 5 3 3 5 3 3 2 8 9 Skanska employees 2 Subcontractors 1 Annual employee survey (YVOS) Percentage of favorable scores (“Strongly Agree” and “Agree” ratings on the 5-point SA-SD Likert scale). These percentages indicate the proportion of ­respondents agreeing with the statement being asked. Question Industry norm 2019 2018 2017 Skanska is committed to improving the safety in my workplace 79 88 88 87 ISO 45001 certification All Skanska business units are certified to the occupational health and safety management system standard ISO 45001. All business units are certified or will finalize implementation during 2020. The business units certified to OHSAS 18001 will change to ISO 45001. In 2019, no major non-conformities were identified by accredited third party auditors. Ethics Code of Conduct training % 2019 2018 Target First month of employment 94 93 100 Updated training every second year 98 100 100 Speak up culture Percentage of favorable scores (“Strongly Agree” and “Agree” ratings on the 5-point SA-SD Likert scale). These percentages indicate the proportion of ­respondents agreeing with the statement being asked. Question Industry norm 2019 2018 2017 I can freely express my concerns without fear of negative consequences (e.g. safety, discrimination, ethical matters, etc) 64 83 82 79 80 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Green Skanska Group climate target Skanska’s scope 3 reported categories1 Skanska aims to achieve net-zero carbon emissions in its own operations and its value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) by 2045. Category according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol CO2e emissions (tonnes) Purchased goods and services 693,357 2030 interim target (limited to cement, concrete, steel and For Skanska’s development units (Residential Development and Commercial bitumen) Property Development), the interim target is a 50 percent decrease in Capital goods carbon emissions by 2030 – including the value chain of these projects Fueland energy-related activities (scope 1, 2 and 3). The base year for scope 1 and 2 is 2015, while the base (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) 17,985 year for scope 3 is 2020. For construction projects with external clients the interim target is to Upstream transportation and distribution reduce carbon emissions by 50 percent by 2030. This covers emissions from Waste generated in operations Skanska’s own operations (scope 1 and 2). Business travel 9,126 To achieve the interim target to reduce the carbon emissions in scope 1 (limited to air travel) and 2, the average reduction per year has to 2.2 percentage points. Employee commuting Upstream leased assets The scopes are defined according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Downstream transportation and distribution • Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by Skanska, such as boilers, furnaces and vehicles. Processing of sold products • Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from the generation of electricity, heating Use of sold products and cooling purchased and consumed by Skanska. Scope 2 emissions occur at End-of-life treatment of sold products the facility where the electricity, heat and cooling are generated. Downstream leased assets • Scope 3 includes indirect greenhouse gas emissions from sources not owned Franchises or directly controlled by the organization. Investments See reporting principles on page 84–85. 1 The reported scope 3 data include the business units Skanska Sweden, Skanska UK, Commercial Property Development USA, USA Civil and USA Building. Scope 1 (direct) and scope 2 (indirect) emissions (CO2e) Tonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017 2016 20153 Scope 1 212,609 275,173 275,537 312,800 322,325 Location-based method 42,987 36,824 55,464 52,704 42,987 Scope 2 Market-based method 78,069 57,187 71,389 73,300 80,334 1 Greenhouse gas emission intensity 1,64 1.95 2.16 2.55 2.60 2 Outside of scope 20,078 7,002 1 Scope 1 and 2 (market-based)/MSEK revenue, according to segment reporting. 2 The direct carbon dioxide (CO2) impact of burning biomass and biofuels is not included in the scope. 3 The 2015 data has been updated following a review in 2019. Total energy usage MWh 2019 2018 2017 2016 20152 Fuel usage (non-renewable) 715,541 1,021,815 1,023,242 1,121,646 1,278,787 Fuel usage (renewable) 182,218 69,621 68,094 54,482 271 Electricity usage 331,167 241,495 272,979 263,246 259,479 Non-renewable 211,551 114,531 154 ,363 143,037 104,502 Renewable 119,617 126,964 118,616 120,209 154,977 District heating usage 12,275 10,499 11,740 3,721 573 District cooling usage 36,739 623 1,499 2,597 196 Total energy usage 1,277,940 1,344,054 1,377,555 1,445,692 1,539,306 Energy intensity1 7.23 7.88 8.57 9.55 9.94 1 Total energy MWh/MSEK revenue, according to segment reporting 2 Carbon emission data for 2015 i reviewed. The data for energy usage 2015 has not been updated accordingly Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 81 Sustainability Report Green cont. Energy reduction in new office buildnings developed by Commercial ­Property Development business units The business units Commercial Development Europe, Commercial Development Nordic and Commercial Development USA divested 14 office properties during 2019, all of them WELL, LEED-certified (Platinum or Gold). or BREEAM (Excellent). The annual enery reductions for those divested ­properties stands at 98 TJ, representing 37 percent reduction compare to average office buildings. This calculation is made according to international standards, such as ASHRAE. The annual consumption of energy is determined through two models, proposed and baseline, in order to determine the energy efficiency of current projects. ISO 14001 certification 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Major non-conformance (MNC) citations from external auditors 0 0 1 0 0 Significant environmental incidents Skanska has a reporting procedure established which covers reporting of significant environmental incidents. In 2019, three incidents were reported in line with the procedure. These relate to noise permits, grey water from a residential building into a nearby ditch and cleaning of another company intermediate bulk container with diluted cutting emulsion water into a nearby stream. The residential building grey water is under control and closed. The other two ones reported are with actions taken and will be closed by the authorities in 2020. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Significant environmental incidents 3 2 1 3 0 Self-generated waste to landfill 2008–2019 % 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Self-generated waste to landfill 6 6 5 5 6 6 6 8 10 12 17 28 82 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Diversity and Inclusion Employees by gender by year end % 2019, % 2018, % 2017, % 2016, % Category Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Skanska AB Board of Directors1 57 43 43 57 50 50 63 37 Senior executives (Group Leadership Team, level 7) 67 33 67 33 67 33 70 30 Business Unit Presidents (level 6) 92 8 92 8 93 7 93 7 Group Senior Vice Presidents (level 6) 33 67 44 56 62 38 67 33 Senior positions (level 3–6)2 75 25 78 22 78 22 80 20 All employees 82 18 83 17 83 17 83 17 1 Elected at the Annual General Meeting. 2 Level 6 means Business Unit Presidents and Group Senior Vice Presidents, level 5 means business unit management teams, level 4 means direct reports to level 5 and level 3 means direct rreports to level 4. Employees by business unit 20191 Average headcount % of total % of total Total number of n ­ umber of n ­ umber of employees Of which employees Of which employees Business unit (headcount) women (headcount) men (headcount) SWE 8,912 1,816 20 7,096 80 NOR 3,724 367 10 3,357 90 FIN 2,197 379 17 1,818 83 CS/SK/HU/RO 3,159 453 14 2,706 86 PL 2,482 660 27 1,822 73 UK 5,404 1,256 23 4,148 77 USA Civil, USA Building and Skanska Inc. 10,907 1,336 12 9.571 88 CDE 235 144 61 91 39 CDN 120 62 52 58 48 CD US 70 32 46 38 54 BoKlok 412 129 31 283 69 RDE 133 74 56 59 44 HQ 133 77 58 56 42 Total 37,888 6,785 18 31,103 82 1 The definition is described in reporting principles, page 85 and differs from Note 36. Annual employee survey (YVOS) Percentage of favorable scores (“Strongly Agree” and “Agree” ratings on the 5-point SA-SD Likert scale). These percentages indicate the proportion of respondents agreeing with the statement being asked. Question Industry norm 2019 2018 2017 My manager makes the most of the diversity in the team to achieve stronger performance together N/A 74 73 70 My workplace is free from bullying and harassment 79 86 86 85 At my workplace, people care for each other and treat each other fairly 78 84 83 82 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 83 Sustainability Report Reporting principles Skanska is reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Certified commercial buildings share of total divestments. sustainability reporting guidelines. Skanska aims to ensure that The certified projects are reported manually to Skanska headall information and data is relevant, transparent, consistent, quarters. accurate and complete and that it provides an objective picture of the Group’s operations. The reporting period is January 1, 2019 to Health and safety December 31, 2019. The lost time accident rate (LTAR) represents the number of The sustainability disclosures are reported from the business employee lost-time accidents resulting in an injury that restricts units quarterly or monthly using the sustainability reporting the employee from being able to perform their normally assigned database CR360, if not else stated. duties for a period of one or more working days, multiplied by 1,000,000 hours and divided by total labor hours. The reported Greenhouse gases and energy data includes Skanska employees and subcontractor employees Skanska calculates and reports greenhouse gas emissions in working on Skanska jobsites. accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Scope The number of fatal incidents includes Skanska employees and 2 emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol subcontractor employees working on Skanska jobsites. The data Scope 2 Guidance applying the market based and location based is based on report from the projects. The LTAR is influenced methods. by national regulations, norms and regional definitions, and is Activity data is based on invoiced data, real-time meters, modhence subject to inherent uncertainty. els, assumptions and estimates or data as reported by ­suppliers. Energy conversions use publicly available conversion factors and Compliance with ISO 45001 management system. emission factors are sourced from open databases such as the If a third-party a uditor identifies a major non-conformity at IEA (2019), DEFRA (2019), ICE 3.0 Reliable Disclosure Systems their review, it is to be reported through the CR360 reporting for Europe and RE-DISS (2018). Greenhouse gases included in database in the next quarterly report. the reported carbon inventory are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Biogenic emissions of CO2 YVOS from the combustion of biofuel and biomass are reported sepaThe annual employee web survey is conducted over the period rately from the gross direct (scope 1) GHG emissions as Outside April to June, with the same set-up and questions since 2017. All of scope. The GWPs used in the calculation of CO2e are based employees are addressed except for craft employees at Skanska on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) over a 100-year USA Civil and Skanska USA Building, due to local working conperiod, with exception for scope 2 calculations applying emission ditions. The percentage of favorable scores refers to “Strongly factors from the IEA, which are based on AR5. Skanska applies Agree” and “Agree” ratings on the 5-point SA-SD Likert scale. the financial control approach. Emissions data is subject to inherThese percentages indicate the proportion of respondents agreeent uncertainties due to incomplete scientific knowledge used to ing with the statement being asked. determine emission factors and uncertainties in measurement methods and resulting effects on measurements and estimations. Code of Conduct training Code of Conduct training statistics are collated by the ­business Waste to landfill units’ HR functions and entered into the Skanska common The indicator for waste is defined as the amount of self-­generated reporting system. The business units report as non-compliance waste to landfill. Self-generated by Skanska means materials any new employees who have not participated in Code of Conbrought into the project which were not used in the p ­ roduction duct training within one month of starting work. For Skanska of the project but instead are being treated as waste. D­ emolition USA Civil craft workers are not included due to union restricwaste or excavated materials are not included in the d ­ efinition. tions. There is a requirement for temporary staff and consultants The waste disposal method is based on the organizational defaults who will be working with Skanska for a medium to long period of the waste disposal contractor. The waste indicator is measured of time to also take the training. That time period is determined as the total weight of self-generated waste and the weight of that as three months, although it differs between business units. waste which is diverted from landfill and sent for reuse, recycling Refresher training for all employees is required every two years. or recovery. Data is based on invoiced data, assumptions and Due to the differences in reporting, the percentage of employees ­estimates or data as reported by supplier, and is subject to in­taking the refresher training within two years may in some cases herent uncertainties. cover a period of up to 27 months. Compliance with ISO 14001 management system If a third-party auditor identifies a major non-conformity at their review, it is to be reported through the CR360 reporting database in the next quarterly report. 84 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report Human resources The HR statistics are reported manually by the business units’ HR functions through the data entry portal Skanska Common Analytics. Data is broken down by gender and is reported on a quarterly basis. The headcount reflects the actual number of people directly employed by Skanska at the end of the quarter. All employees count as one, regardless of worktime percentage. The average headcount is calculated as the average over the last four quarters. Changes in the Sustainability Report between 2018 and 2019 • The reported carbon emissions for the base year 2015 are updated due to review of the data and recalculations • The reported energy emissions are updated due to review of the data and recalculations • No report of green revenue and market value from green p ­ rojects. New data disclosed • The gender ratio of business unit presidents and Group senior vice president • LTAR and fatal accidents are divided by Skanska employees and ­subcontractors. • Number of reported cases to Code of Conduct Hotline. • Cases investigated as corruption • Number of employees is presented by region (defined as ­business units) • Selected parts from the yearly employee survey (YVOS) • Certified commercial buildings share of total divestments. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 85 Financial analysis Financial analysis Revenue increased in Swedish kronor and decreased slightly Residential Development in local currencies, while operating income according to The Swedish residential market for new developments is both segment reporting and IFRS increased both in Swedish improving slightly as confidence regarding housing prices is kronor and in local currencies compared to the previous year. recovering and transaction activity is increasing. In Norway the The underlying profitability in Construction has improved market situation is stable, while the Finnish market is slower. compared to the previous year. The operating margin during The Central European market is stable. Common for all markets the year amounted to 2.4 percent and was impacted negatively is the challenge with high construction costs and long zoning by goodwill impairment losses in the UK of SEK 367 M. The processes. improved operating margin is a result of the strategic initiative In 2019, 3,853 (3,653) homes were sold, of which 417 rentals that was started in 2018 with an emphasis on a more selective and construction on 3,407 (4,480) homes was started, of which tender approval procedure, commercial focus and cost 415 rentals. BoKlok has sold 1,024 (926) homes and started 1,035 effectiveness. The more selective tender approval procedure (1,158) homes. At the end of the year there were 7,130 (7,539) resulted in order bookings declining during the year and homes under construction and 70 percent (68) of these were sold. amounting to SEK 145.8 billion, while ­Skanska’s operations in Sweden and in the USA saw strong order bookings. By being Commercial Property Development selective it is possible to add projects to the order backlog that are Vacancy rates for office space in most of the Nordic and Central attractive from a risk and return perspective. European cities where Skanska has operations are stable. In The order backlog for Construction at the end of the year Sweden vacancy rates are low and rents are high. Demand for amounted to SEK 185.4 billion, which is equivalent to 14 months office space is strong in Poland and in other parts of Central of production. The Residential Development business stream Europe as well. In USA, demand from tenants is good in showed strong profitability. The Swedish new-build market Boston and Seattle, while somewhat weaker in Washington, is improving gradually and there has been an increase the D.C. and Houston’s Energy Corridor. Modern properties with number of transactions. The current market conditions are high quality tenants are in demand from property investors, resulting in customers making their buying decisions closer to resulting in attractive valuations for these properties. Investor the completion of projects. Goodwill impairment losses in the appetite remains strong in USA, Central Europe and the Nordics, Norwegian operations during the year amounted to SEK 101 M. especially Sweden, but the number of shortlisted investors in However, the underlying profitability is still 10 percent thanks to transactions are fewer and more selective regarding investment strong implementation and a well-diversified portfolio in various properties. Yield levels in Sweden and in USA have likely segments and markets. Commercial Property Development bottomed out. Common for all markets is the challenge with high had a very active and profitable year in all three markets. In construction costs and long zoning processes. 2019, the Nordics, Central Europe and USA divested property At the end of the year, Commercial Property Development for SEK 17.1 billion with divestment gains of SEK 4.3 billion had 42 ongoing projects, representing leasable space of 941,000 reported according to segment reporting. At the end of the year, square meters. Commercial Property Development had 42 ongoing projects. Skanska leased out 421,000 square meters during the year. Skanska is experiencing strong leasing activity and is creating value for the future by leasing modern, green properties to stable and long-term tenants. Market outlook Construction In Sweden, the civil market and the non-residential market is strong, although the market is competitive. The Swedish residential building market is slow. In Norway, the outlook for the civil market remains positive, but with significant competition in new bids. The non-residential market also benefits from increased public investments, while investments in the residential building market are slightly lower. The overall market situation in ­Finland is stable except for a slowdown in the residential building market. In the UK, Brexit is still limiting investments in the non-residential building market and civil market to a certain degree. In Central Europe there is a high activity level in general and construction related inflation is high, causing postponement of new projects coming to the market in especially Poland. In USA the overall market is strong. The civil construction market remains good, although competition is intense, and the building construction market is strong in sectors such as offices, aviation, education, data centers and healthcare. 86 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial analysis Order bookings, order backlog and revenue in Construction Revenue SEK bn SEK M 2019 2018 250 Revenue by business stream according to segment reporting 200 Construction 159,579 157,894 Residential Development 12,483 10,739 150 Commercial Property Development 17,850 16,271 Central and eliminations –13,130 –14 410 100 Total revenue according to segment reporting 176,782 170,494 50 Difference in accounting principles –3,936 1,236 Total revenue according to IFRS 172,846 171,730 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Revenue according to IFRS increased by 1 percent (decreased 4 percent in local currency) to SEK 172.8 billion (171.7). Revenue, rolling 12 months Order bookings, rolling 12 months Revenue according to segment reporting increased by 4 per• Order backlog Order bookings per quarter cent (decreased 1 percent in local currency) to SEK 176.8 billion (170.5). In the Construction business stream, revenue rose in SEK Order bookings by 1 percent. SEK 13.0 billion (13.7) of revenue in Construction, Order bookings amounted to SEK 145.8 billion (151.7) (decreased equivalent to 8 percent (9), was generated by the Group’s P­ roject 8 percent in local currency). Order bookings in SEK were 9 Development operations. Of the SEK 12,483 M (10,739) in percent lower than revenue in 2019, compared to the previous Residential Development revenue, SEK 532 M (160) is from joint year when order bookings were 4 percent lower than revenue. ventures and this has been included line by line according to the The reduction in order bookings is mainly a result of the strategic proportional method in segment reporting. initiative in certain markets to streamline operations and reduce the risk profile in Construction. Operating income SEK M 2019 2018 Order bookings and order backlog Revenue by business stream according to segment reporting Order bookings Order backlog Construction 3,772 1,099 SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Residential Development 1,195 1,505 Nordic countries 59,437 65,239 62,244 61,639 Commercial Property Development 3,287 3,069 of which Sweden 37,596 35,922 37,771 35,388 Central –388 –780 Europe 18,953 30,557 24,699 34,941 Eliminations –38 –66 USA 67,428 55,923 98,427 95,462 Operating income according to segment Total 145,818 151,719 185,370 192,042 reporting 7,828 4,827 Difference in accounting principles –400 820 Order backlog Operating income according to IFRS 7,428 5,647 The order backlog decreased by 3 percent compared to the previous year and amounted to SEK 185.4 M (192.0) at the end Operating income according to IFRS increased by 32 percent of the year. The order backlog is equivalent to 14 (14) months of (increased 28 percent in local currency) to SEK 7,428 M (5,647). production. The US, Nordic and European operations accounted Operating income according to segment reporting amountfor 53, 34 and 13 percent respectively of the order backlog. ed to SEK 7,828 M (4,827). Impairment losses on current and non-current assets were charged to operating income in the Segment and IFRS Reporting amount of SEK –719 M (–677), mainly attributable to goodwill The Group reports its Residential Development and Commercial impairment losses Property Development business streams according to a method described in Note 1. The differences between the two methods of Construction reporting revenue and operating income are summarized in the In the Construction business stream, operating income following tables. increased amounting to SEK 3,772 M (1,099). The operating margin was also higher than in the previous year and amounted to 2.4 percent (0.7). A goodwill impairment charge of SEK –367 M in a part of the UK operations impacted negatively. Compared to the previous year the operating income was negatively affected in Sweden by fewer completed high-profitability projects and weak profitability in the residential building construction operations in Stockholm, and in asphalt operations. The comparative p ­ eriod was negatively affected by restructuring charges and project Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 87 Financial analysis write-downs in Poland and the USA, as well as goodwill impairFinancial items amounted to SEK –88 M (39) net, including ment losses in the USA, while resolved disputes in the USA and interest expense from lease liabilities according to IFRS 16, which termination of defined-benefit pension plans in the UK had a applies from January 1, 2019, of SEK 272 M. Tax expense for the positive effect. The total net effect amounted to SEK –2.3 billion. year amounted to SEK –1,286 M (–1,092), representing a tax rate of 18 percent (19). Residential Development Operating income in Residential Development amounted to SEK Investments/divestments 1,195 M (1,505) and was negatively affected by goodwill impairSEK M 2019 2018 ment losses of SEK 101 M in Norway due to lower volumes. The Operations – investments operating margin in the business stream declined by 9.6 percent (14.0), with the comparative period including a larger positive Intangible assets –116 –225 effect of gains on land divestments and the release of provisions Property, plant and equipment –2,566 –2,351 relating to completion of project in the Nordics. Impairment lossShares 108 –99 es on current assets in Residential Development were charged to Current-asset properties –22,173 –21,849 earnings in the amount of SEK –170 M (–72). of which Residential Development –9,308 –10,449 of which Commercial Property Development –12,865 -11,400 Commercial Property Development Operations – investments –24,963 –24,524 Operating income in the Commercial Property Development business stream amounted to SEK 3,287 M (3,069). Properties Strategic investments were sold during the year for a value of SEK 17,133 M (15,720), Acquisition of businesses –6 –16 generating divestment gains of SEK 4,275 M (4,005) and income Strategic investments –6 –16 from joint ventures of 146 (61) M. Impairment losses on currentasset properties in Commercial Property Development were Total investments –24,969 –24,540 charged to earnings in the amount of SEK –19 M (–107). Operations – divestments Central Central expenses amounted to SEK –388 M (–780), of which Intangible assets 25 6 SEK 24 M (31) relates to the PPP portfolio. The release of a proviProperty, plant and equipment 1,028 428 sion totaling SEK 212 M for legal proceedings relating to the R4 Shares 284 84 project in the Czech Republic had a positive effect on earnings. Current-asset properties 25,258 27,322 The comparative period includes restructuring charges totalof which Residential Development 11,740 12,068 ing SEK –220 M, of which SEK –120 M relates to restructuring of which Commercial Property Development 13,518 15,254 charges in connection with the close down of the Infrastructure Operations – divestments 26,595 27,840 Development business stream. Total net divestments (+) / investments (–) 1,626 3,300 Elimination of intra-Group profits Eliminations of intra-Group profits amounted to SEK –38 M Depreciation/amortization, non-current assets –3,043 –1,780 (–66). At the Group level, this included elimination of profits relating to property projects in the Construction business stream. The Groups investments amounted to a total of SEK –24,969 M Eliminations are reversed when the projects are divested. (–24,540). Divestments amounted to SEK 26,595 M (27,840), and the Group’s net divestment amounted to SEK 1,626 M (3,300). Return on equity and capital employed according Net divestments in current-asset properties amounted to SEK to segment reporting 3,085 M (5,473). In Residential Development investments in Return on equity according to segment reporting amounted current-asset properties amounted to SEK –9,308 M (–10,449), to 21.4 percent (14.1) and return on capital employed in Project of which SEK –1,744 M (–1,599) was for land, equivalent to 4,197 Development operations amounted to 10.3 percent (12.0) (3,333) in building rights. Homes were handed over for a volume ­according to segment reporting. of SEK 11,740 M (12,068). Net divestment of current-asset properties in Residential Development amounted to SEK 2,432 M Income according to IFRS (1,619). SEK M 2019 2018 In Commercial Property Development investments in Operating income 7,428 5,647 current-asset properties amounted to SEK 12,865 M (–11,400), of which SEK –2,498 M (–994) was for land. Divestments of Financial income 188 192 current-asset properties amounted to SEK 13,518 M (15,254). Financial expense –276 –153 Net divestment of current-asset properties in Commercial Financial items –88 39 Property Development amounted to SEK 653 M (3,854). Income after financial items 7,340 5,686 Taxes –1,286 –1,092 Proﬁt for the year 6,054 4,594 88 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial analysis Consolidated operating cash flow % 30 SEK M 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities 4,704 394 25 Change in working capital –651 4,040 20 Net investments (–) / divestments (+) 1,632 3,316 15 Accrual adjustments 209 –39 Cash flow from business operations before 10 taxes paid 5,894 7,711 5 Taxes paid in business operations –1,371 –443 0 Cash flow from operating activities 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 including taxes paid 4,523 7,268 • Return on equity • Return on capital employed Net interest items and other financial items –983 156 Taxes paid in financing operations 295 –47 Return on equity and capital employed Cash flow from financing activities –688 109 At the end of the year, equity attributable to equity holders Cash flow from operations 3,835 7,377 amounted to SEK 32,924 M (29,250). Apart from comprehensive income for the year of SEK 5,958 M, the change in equity is Strategic net divestments (+) / investments (–) –6 –16 mainly explained by dividends of SEK –2,462 M and share-based Dividend etc.1 –2,488 –3,472 payments in connection with long-term employee ownership programs (Seop) totaling SEK 245 M. Return on equity increased Cash flow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities 1,341 3,889 to 20.3 percent (16.4). Change in interest-bearing receivables and Capital employed at year-end amounted to SEK 55,938 M liabilities –3,415 –311 (46,187). Return on capital employed amounted to 14.3 percent Cash flow for the year –2,074 3,578 (13.0). Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 10,722 6,998 Equity/assets ratio and debt/equity ratio Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 97 146 The net debt/equity ratio amounted to 0.1 (–0.1) and the equity/ Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 8,745 10,722 assets ratio amounted to 26.2 percent (25.2). For additional financial information see Note 6 and Note 14. 1 Of which repurchases of shares 0 –72 Parent Company Cash flow for the year amounted to SEK –2,074 M (3,578). The Parent Company carries out administrative tasks and Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 3,835 M includes the Group Leadership Team and group functions. (7,377), where the change in working capital in Construction as Profit for the year amounted to SEK 3,038 M (3,970) and mainly well as net investments in Commercial Property Development consisted of dividends from subsidiaries. The average number of are the main reasons for the change in cash flow. Taxes paid in employees was 97 (118). business operations amounted to SEK –1,371 M (–443). Cash flow for the year of SEK –2,074 M (3,578) combined with Senior executive remuneration translation differences of SEK 97 M (146) increased cash and cash For information about the most recently approved guidelines for equivalents, which amounted to SEK 8,745 M (10,722). determining salaries and other remuneration for the President Commercial Property Development assets sold but not yet and CEO and other senior executives, see Note 37. transferred as of December 31, 2019 will have a positive effect on cash flow of SEK 9.2 billion (SEK 6.6 billion, net, after remaining The Board of Directors’ (the ”Board”) of Skanska AB (publ) (the investments), of which SEK 7.6 billion will be received in 2020. ”Company”) proposal to the 2020 Annual General Meeting for The remainder will impact cash flow in 2021–2022. resolution on guidelines for salary and other remuneration to senior executives Financing and liquidity The Board proposes that the 2020 Annual General Meeting At the end of 2019 the Group had interest-bearing net liabilities resolves on the following guidelines for salary and other remuamounting to SEK –4.9 billion (3.2), including SEK 8.9 billion in neration to senior executives of the Company. Senior executives lease liabilities according to IFRS 16, which applies as of January include the President and CEO and the other members of the 1, 2019. Group Leadership Team. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents and unutilized they are applicable to remuneration agreed, and amendments to confirmed credit facilities amounted to SEK 17.6 billion, of which remuneration already agreed, after adoption of the guidelines by SEK 11.8 billion is available within one week. the 2020 Annual General Meeting. These guidelines do not apply The Group’s total assets increased by SEK 9.7 billion and to any remuneration decided by the Annual General Meeting amounted to SEK 126.0 billion (116.3). (the “General Meeting”), including any long-term share related For financial position, see also Note 6 and Note 14. incentive plans. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 89 Financial analysis The guidelines’ promotion of the Company’s business strategy, The financial targets for the variable cash remuneration may be long-term interests and sustainability related to the Group’s earnings before taxes, to relevant business A prerequisite for the successful implementation of the unit’s earnings before interest and taxes, etc. ­Company’s business strategy and safeguarding of its long-term The non-financial targets shall be set to support the business interests, including its sustainability, is that the Company is able strategy and long-term interests, including sustainability, to recruit and retain qualified personnel. To this end, it is necesby for example, being clearly linked to the business strategy sary that the Company offers competitive remuneration. These or sustainability. The non-financial targets should together guidelines enable the Company to offer the senior executives a represent 50 percent of the total bonus which means that the total competitive total remuneration. bonus outcome may be reduced with up to 50 percent if the nonVariable cash remuneration covered by these guidelines shall financial targets are not met. aim at promoting the Company’s business strategy and longTo which extent the criteria for awarding variable cash remuterm interests, including its sustainability. This is accomplished neration has been satisfied shall be evaluated/determined when through the financial and non-financial targets that determines the measurement period has ended. The Board is responsible for the outcome of the variable cash remuneration and are clearly the evaluation so far as it concerns variable remuneration to the linked to the business strategy and the Company’s sustainability CEO. For variable cash remuneration to other senior executives, agenda. The variable cash remuneration is further described in the Compensation Committee is responsible for the evaluation. the section “Variable cash remuneration” below. For financial objectives, the evaluation shall be based on the The Company’s objectives for having a variable cash remunerlatest financial information made public by the Company. ation program and a long-term share related incentive plan are The terms for variable cash remuneration shall be structured so to (i) drive behaviors that will support the Company’s long and that the Board, if exceptional economic conditions prevail, has the short term business success and create shareholder value, (ii) possibility to limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration, make the Company attractive as an employer for top talents, (iii) if such a payment is considered unreasonable and incompatible retain key individuals within the Company, and (iv) increase with the Company’s responsibility in general to the shareholders, employees’ interest and involvement in the Company’s business employees and other stakeholders. There shall also be a possibility and development. to limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration if the Board For information regarding the Company’s business strategy, see considers that this is appropriate for other reasons. Further, the Company’s website: group.skanska.com/about-us/strategy/. the Board shall have the possibility to reclaim paid out variable cash remuneration if it is discovered after the payment that the Total remuneration senior executive has violated Skanska’s Code of Conduct or other The combined remuneration for each senior executive shall be Skanska values, policies, standards or procedures. market-related and competitive in the labor market in which the Further variable cash remuneration may be awarded in senior executive is placed, and distinguished performance should extraordinary circumstances, provided that such extraordinary be reflected in the total remuneration. The remuneration may arrangements are limited in time and only made on an individual consist of the following components: fixed cash salary, variable basis, either for the purpose of recruiting or retaining senior cash remuneration, pension and insurance benefits and other executives, or as remuneration for extraordinary performance benefits. Additionally, the General Meeting may – irrespective of beyond the individual’s ordinary tasks. Such remuneration may these guidelines – resolve on, among other things, share-related not exceed an amount corresponding to 100 percent of the fixed or share price-related remuneration. Fixed salary and variable annual cash salary and may not be paid more than once each remuneration shall be related to the senior executive’s responsiyear per individual. Any resolution on such remuneration for bility and authority. the President and CEO shall be made by the Board based on a proposal from the Compensation Committee. Any resolution Variable cash remuneration on such remuneration for other senior executives shall be made The satisfaction of criteria for awarding variable cash remuneraby the Compensation Committee based on a proposal from the tion shall be measured over a period of one or several years. The President and CEO. variable cash remuneration shall be capped and related to the fixed salary, and may amount to not more than 100 percent of the Pension and insurance fixed annual cash salary. For the President and CEO, pension benefits, including health The variable cash remuneration shall take into account both insurance (Sw: sjukförsäkring), shall be defined-contribution financial and non-financial performance. The outcome in schemes. Variable cash remuneration shall not qualify for penrelation to predetermined and measurable financial targets sion benefits. The pension premiums to defined-contribution shall determine the total (financial) bonus potential, i.e. the schemes shall amount to not more than 35 percent of the fixed financial targets shall be the basis of the total bonus potential. annual cash salary. For other senior executives, pension beneThis outcome may be reduced depending on the outcomes of the fits, including health insurance, shall be defined-contribution non-financial targets. The variable cash remuneration must be schemes. Variable cash remuneration shall not qualify for penbased on results in relation to established targets and be designed sion benefits, except when it follows from rules under a general to increase the alignment between the shareholders and senior pension plan (like the Swedish ITP plan). The pension premiums executives of the Company. for defined-contribution pension shall amount to not more than 30 percent of the fixed annual cash salary. If the variable cash 90 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Financial analysis remuneration qualifies for pension benefits, the pension premiTermination of employment ums for defined-contribution pension on the variable cash remuIn the event of employment termination by the Company, the neration shall amount to not more than 30 percent of the fixed normal period of notice is six months, combined with severance annual cash salary. pay corresponding to a maximum of 18 months fixed cash salary or, alternatively, a period of notice of maximum 12 months, Other benefits combined with severance pay corresponding to a maximum of Other benefits may include, for example, medical insurance 12 months fixed cash salary. Fixed cash salary during the notice (Sw: sjukvårdsförsäkring), housing, home travel, tax compenperiod and severance pay may not together exceed an amount sation, parking and company cars. Such benefits may amount to corresponding to the fixed cash salary for two years. When not more than 15 percent of the fixed annual cash salary. termination is made by the senior executive, the notice period For employments governed by rules other than Swedish rules, may not exceed 12 months, without any right to severance pay. pension benefits and other benefits may be duly adjusted for compliance with mandatory rules or established local practice, Remuneration to board members in addition to board fees taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of To the extent that a non-employed board member elected by the these guidelines. General Meeting performs work for the Company, besides the Senior executives who are expatriates, i.e. based in another board membership, consultant fee and other remuneration may country than their home country, may receive additional be granted for such work. Decisions on consultant fees and other remuneration and other benefits to the extent reasonable in remuneration to non-employed board members elected by the light of the special circumstances associated with the expat General Meeting are made by the Compensation Committee. arrangement, taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these guidelines. Such benefits may not in total Salary and employment conditions for employees exceed 50 per cent of the fixed annual cash salary. In the preparation of the Board’s proposal for these remuneration guidelines, salary and employment conditions for employees of Long-term share saving programs the Company have been taken into account by including inforLong-term share saving programs, Skanska Employee Ownership mation on the employees’ total income, the components of the Programs (”Seop 4” and ”Seop 5”) have been implemented in the remuneration and increase and growth rate over time, in the Company. Such plans have been resolved by the General MeetCompensation Committee’s and the Board’s basis of decision ing and are therefore excluded from these guidelines. New plans when evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitations set may also be resolved by the General Meeting. Seop 4 and Seop 5 out herein are reasonable. The development of the gap between give present and future employees the opportunity of becoming the remuneration to senior executive and remuneration to other shareholders of Skanska and include permanent employees in employees will be disclosed in the remuneration report. the Skanska Group. The performance criteria used to assess the outcome of the plans are clearly linked to the business strategy The decision-making process to determine, review and and thereby to the Company’s long-term value creation, including implement the guidelines its sustainability. The performance criteria consist of financial The Board has established a Compensation Committee. The targets at Group, business unit and/or business unit cluster level. Compensation Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s At present, the financial target applicable at Group level is growth decision to propose guidelines for senior executive remunerain earning per share (EPS). The financial targets applicable at tion. The Board shall prepare a proposal for new guidelines at business unit and/or business unit cluster level vary depending on least every fourth year and submit it to the General Meeting. The which business stream the relevant business unit or business unit guidelines shall be in force until new guidelines are adopted by cluster belongs to, as set out in the table below. the General Meeting. The Compensation Committee shall also monitor and evaluate programs for variable remuneration for Construction Residential Commercial Property the senior executives, the application of the guidelines for senior Development Development executive remuneration as well as the current structures and EBIT1 EBIT EBIT compensation levels in the Company. The members of the Compensation Committee are independent of the Company – ROCE2 Leased SQM3 and its senior executives. The President and CEO and other members of the senior executives do not participate in the Seop 4 och Seop 5 are further conditional upon the participant’s Board’s processing of and resolutions regarding remunerationown investment and three-year holding and employment period. related matters in so far as they are affected by such matters. For more information on Seop 4 and Seop 5, including the criteria which the outcome depends on, see the Company’s website: group.skanska.com/4922a2/siteassets/corporate-governance/ annual-general-meeting/2019/item-17-the-board-of-directorsproposal-on-a-long-term-employee-ownership-programseop-5-.pdf 1 Earnings Before Interest and Taxes. 2 Return on capital employed. 3 Leasing Square Meters. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 91 Derogation from the guidelines The Board may temporarily resolve to derogate from the guidelines, in whole or in part, if in a specific case there is special cause for the derogation and a derogation is necessary to serve the Company’s long-term interests, including its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s financial viability. As set out above, the Compensation Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s resolutions in remuneration-related matters. This includes any resolutions to derogate from the guidelines. Skanska employee ownership program (Seop) Smart Built Environment is focused on increasing digitalization The purpose of the Seop is to strengthen the Group’s ability to and industrialization within construction to create buildings retain and recruit qualified employees and to align those more faster, at less cost and through more sustainable means. Skanska closely to the company and its shareholders. is represented on Smart Built Environment’s governing board. The program provides employees with the opportunity to With InfraSweden2030, the focus is enhancing innovation and invest in Skanska shares while receiving incentives in the form collaboration in the Swedish transport infrastructure sector. of possible allotment of additional shares. This allotment is InfraSweden2030 includes the research project Construction predominantly performance-based. Factory, in which Skanska, Volvo Construction Equipment and Shares are only allotted after a three-year vesting period. other partners are investigating how to improve construction To be able to earn matching shares and performance shares, a industry productivity, for example by implementing such Indusperson must be employed during the entire lock-up period and try 4.0 solutions as artificial intelligence. Skanska is represented have retained the shares purchased within the framework of the on the InfraSweden2030 board of directors. program. Other national research partnerships involving Skanska are: In 2019, costs related to the Seop program amounted to SEK • K lima 2050, a consortium financed by the Research Council 245 M. See also Note 26 and Note 37. of Norway that aims to reduce society’s climate change risk by The accounting principles applied for the employee ownership developing better means to adapt buildings and infrastructure. programs can be found in Note 1 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. Skanska is represented on the Klima 2050 governing board. Research and innovation • Building 2030, a consortium organized by Aalto University that is developing a vision for the Finnish construction sector Research and development (R&D) strengthens Skanska’s in 2030 and working toward its implementation. ability to provide the innovative, sustainable solutions needed • Zero-Emission Neighborhoods in Smart Cities, a group of by customers and society. Through R&D, Skanska identifies, public and private organizations hosted by the Norwegian develops and applies new and enhanced products, services and ­University of Science and Technology that is developing soluprocesses, increasingly working with external partners. R&D tions to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from buildings enables improved operational efficiency performance, supporting and neighborhoods. ­Skanska’s ability to create shareholder value over the long term. Skanska’s business units lead R&D efforts and activities. This Additional research and development arrangement provides a flexible and agile means of leveraging Further examples of current research and development initiatives R&D to meet business needs. With this, various internal netacross the Group include: works and communications platforms facilitate R&D knowledge • Using machine learning and artificial intelligence to optimize sharing across the Group, driving efficiencies. Digitalization the use of heavy construction equipment on project sites. and sustainability are Skanska priorities integrated into many This is expected to lower carbon emissions, reduce operating research activities. costs and accelerate productivity. Skanska’s partners on this research project are Volvo Construction Equipment; SINTEF, Research partnerships a Norway-based research organization; and Ditio, a construcSkanska’s research priorities frequently intersect with those of tion software company of which Skanska is a part owner. government and industry, enabling joint development. This project is partially financed by a research grant from the At the European Union (EU) level, Skanska is part of the ­Norwegian state. EU-funded GrowSmarter project that is researching “smart city • Setting up Sustainovation, a structured platform for S­ kanska’s solutions” in energy, infrastructure and transport to help achieve a R&D activities in Sweden to support the achievement of the sustainable Europe. Also, Skanska is contributing to C ­ RAVEzero, UN Sustainable Development Goals. To include external an EU-funded program focused on reducing the costs and accelerperspectives in guiding this work, Sustainovation includes an ating the market for viable nearly zero-energy buildings. Innovation Council comprised of leaders from the Swedish Skanska is involved in two large research programs funded by Film Institute, the Third AP Fund and Ericsson. the Swedish state, Smart Built Environment and InfraSweden 2030. 92 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • Creating more environmentally responsible concrete mixes, Information on shares including with reduced carbon emissions and fewer natuIn order to ensure allotment of shares to the participants in ral resources. In 2019, Skanska in Sweden launched Green Skanska’s employee ownership programs, the 2019 Annual ­Concrete, a collection of concrete mixes with up to 50 per­General Meeting authorized the Board to repurchase shares in cent less carbon emissions than traditional mixes. Also, in own custody. According to this decision the company may buy the Czech Republic where supplies of natural aggregates are a maximum of 1,000,000 Series B shares to ensure allotment of decreasing, Skanska is bringing to market a circular concrete shares to participants in Seop 5. approach that uses 100 percent recycled concrete and/or No shares were repurchased during the year, but the average masonry. price for all shares repurchased in previous years is SEK 137.54. • Developing a new definition of Powerhouse energy-positive During the year 1,830,155 shares were allotted to the employees buildings, one that aligns with the Paris climate agreement. participating in the employee ownership program. The quota This work included conceiving a budget for total greenhouse value of these shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 5.5 M, gas emissions over a 60-year building lifecycle per square meter and the shares represent 0.4 percent of the total share capital. The of building space, providing a guideline for new Powerhouse number of shares in own custody held as of December 31, 2019 office developments. Powerhouse is a Norwegian consortium amounted to 8,394,479. The quota value of these shares is SEK that includes Skanska, real estate company Entra and Snøhetta 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 25.2 M, and the shares represent 2.0 architects. percent of the total share capital. The cost of acquiring the shares • Testing “smart” home solutions with technology company amounted to SEK 1.2 billion. ABB at a test laboratory at Metropolia University of Applied ­Sciences in Helsinki. The connected, digital solutions are being Proposed dividend analyzed from both user experience and technical perspectives. The Board proposes a regular dividend of SEK 6.25 (6.00) per • Creating an online system that enables people to preview and share. The proposal is equivalent to a regular dividend totaling then purchase Skanska-developed apartments in Finland SEK 2,572 M (2,462). The Board proposes March 30, 2020 as the through a fully digital process. This system – among the first record date for the dividend. of its kind globally – is based on a blockchain-powered digital No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series transaction process developed by Finnish technology company B treasury shares. The total dividend amount may change by Tomorrow Tech. Homebuyers gain greater convenience and the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transparency while both customers and Skanska save administransfer of shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership trative time and effort. programs. • Developing cloud-based software systems that enable rapid and simple comparisons of designed energy consumption, The Board’s justification for its proposed dividend power requirements and indoor climate with measured data The nature and scale of Skanska’s operations are described in the from the operational phase of completed buildings. Through Articles of Association and this Annual Report. The operations these systems, called SmartTune, the results will be graphically carried out within the Group do not pose any risks beyond those displayed to aid building operations and to provide feedback to that occur or can be assumed to occur in the industry, or the risks improve the design of future buildings. SmartTune is financed that are otherwise associated with conducting business activities. by the Norwegian Research Council. The Group’s dependence on the general economic situation does • Creating and analyzing “digital twins”, which are digital not deviate from what is otherwise the case in the industry. replicas of buildings that facilitate proactive operations and The Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 26.2 percent (25.2). maintenance and can provide important feedback for the The proposed dividend does not jeopardize the investments that design phase. Digital twins are based on building information are considered necessary or investments to support the Group’s models (BIM) that have been enriched with data from Intercontinued development. The Group’s financial position does net of Things (IoT)-enabled devices and building automation not give rise to any conclusion other than that the Group can systems. continue to develop its operations and that the company can be • Conceiving of and co-creating the Embodied Carbon in expected to meet its short-term and long-term obligations. Construction Calculator (EC3), a free, open-source tool for With reference to the above and what has otherwise come to calculating and evaluating the carbon emissions embodied the Board’s attention, the Board has concluded that the dividend within building materials. EC3, which was developed with is justified based on what is required in terms of the size of the industry partners and publicly launched at the Greenbuild company’s and the Group’s equity and the Group’s consolidation International Conference and Expo in November 2019, requirements, liquidity and position in general, based on the empowers the construction industry to reduce its carbon nature and scale of the Group’s operations. Future profits are footprint and create a more sustainable future. expected to cover both the growth of business operations and the growth of the regular dividend. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 93 Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Revenue 8, 9 172,846 171,730 Cost of sales 9 –156,540 –157,465 Gross income 16,306 14,265 Selling and administrative expenses 11 –9,469 –9,473 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 20 591 855 Operating income 10, 12, 13, 22, 36, 38, 40 7,428 5,647 Financial income 188 192 Financial expense –276 –153 Financial items 14 –88 39 Income after financial items 15 7,340 5,686 Taxes 16 –1,286 –1,092 Profit for the year 6,054 4,594 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 6,031 4,571 Non-controlling interests 23 23 Earnings per share, SEK 26, 43 14.68 11.17 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 26, 43 14.62 11.11 Proposed regular dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.00 94 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M 2019 2018 Profit for the year 6,054 4,594 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the period’s profit or loss Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans1 –895 –478 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 166 59 –729 –419 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders 672 1,299 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 3 3 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 4 –183 Effect of cash flow hedges 31 –30 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies –41 272 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt for the period –10 7 659 1,368 Other comprehensive income after tax –70 949 Comprehensive income for the year 5,984 5,543 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 5,958 5,517 Non-controlling interests 26 26 1 Effects of social insurance contributions including special employer’s contribution are included –144 –207 See also Note 26. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 95 Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of financial position SEK M Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 17 7,742 7,645 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets 40 4,616 – Goodwill 18 4,057 4,324 Other intangible assets 19 865 975 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 20 3,442 3,288 Non-current financial assets 21 2,528 2,345 Deferred tax assets 16 1,862 1,933 Total non-current assets 25,112 20,510 Current assets Current-asset properties 22 46,373 42,391 Current-asset properties, right-of-use assets 40 3,980 – Inventories 23 1,128 1,256 Current financial assets 21 6,899 7,117 Tax assets 16 670 396 Contract assets 9 5,898 6,661 Other operating receivables 24 27,213 27,243 Cash and bank balances 25 8,745 10,722 Total current assets 100,906 95,786 ASSETS 32 126,018 116,296 of which interest-bearing non-current financial assets 31 2,483 2,302 of which interest-bearing current assets 31 15,517 17,769 18,000 20,071 96 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of financial position SEK M Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 EQUITY 26 Share capital 1,260 1,260 Paid-in capital 3,027 2,782 Reserves 3,165 2,509 Retained earnings 25,472 22,699 Equity attributable to equity holders 32,924 29,250 Non-controlling interests 97 97 TOTAL EQUITY 33,021 29,347 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 27 2,565 3,912 Lease liabilities 40 7,843 – Pensions 28 6,866 5,669 Deferred tax liabilities 16 1,045 711 Total non-current liabilities 18,319 10,292 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 27 4,617 7,310 Lease liabilities 40 1,078 – Tax liabilities 16 564 615 Current provisions 29 10,021 9,922 Contract liabilities 9 20,419 20,738 Other operating liabilities 30 37,979 38,072 Total current liabilities 74,678 76,657 TOTAL LIABILITIES 92,997 86,949 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 32 126,018 116,296 of which interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 16,051 11,171 of which interest-bearing pensions and provisions 31 6,866 5,669 22,917 16,840 Information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities can be found in Note 33. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 97 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to equity holders Cash flow NonTotal Share Paid-in Translation reserve Retained controlling equity SEK M capital capital reserve hedge earnings Total interests capital Equity, December 31, 2017 1,260 2,528 1,759 –615 22,132 27,064 121 27,185 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –140 –140 –140 Adjusted equity, January 1, 2018 1,260 2,528 1,759 –615 21,992 26,924 121 27,045 Profit for the year 4,571 4,571 23 4,594 Other comprehensive income for the year 1,116 249 –419 946 3 949 Dividend paid –3,373 –3,373 –27 –3,400 Change in Group composition –23 –23 Repurchase of 435,000 Series B shares –72 –72 –72 Change in sharebased payments 254 254 254 Equity, December 31, 2018 1,260 2,782 2,875 –366 22,699 29,250 97 29,347 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –67 –67 –67 Adjusted equity, January 1, 2019 1,260 2,782 2,875 –366 22,632 29,183 97 29,280 Profit for the year 6,031 6,031 23 6,054 Other comprehensive income for the year 676 –20 –729 –73 3 –70 Dividend paid –2,462 –2,462 –26 –2,488 Change in sharebased payments 245 245 245 Equity, December 31, 2019 1,260 3,027 3,551 –386 25,472 32,924 97 33,021 See also Note 26. 98 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M 2019 2018 Change in interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities Operating activities SEK M 2019 2018 Operating income 7,428 5,647 Interest-bearing net receivables/ Adjustments for items not included net liabilities, January 1 3,231 –1,126 in cash flow –2,724 –5,253 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –7,469 –30 Income tax paid –1,309 –414 Adjusted opening balance –4,238 –1,156 Cash flow from operating activities 3,395 –20 Cash flow from operating activities 6,038 9,454 before change in working capital Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in interest-bearing receivables –1,521 –2,202 Cash flow from change in working capital Cash flow from financing activities excluding Investments in current-asset properties –22,036 –21,647 change in interest-bearing liabilities –3,176 –3,363 Divestments of current-asset properties 25,330 27,081 Remeasurement of pension liabilities –751 –271 Change in inventories and operating Net receivable/net liability acquired/divested –505 –7 receivables 2,009 2,434 Translation differences 129 282 Change in operating liabilities –2,660 1,606 Other –893 494 Cash flow from change in working capital 2,643 9,474 Interest-bearing net receivables/ Cash flow from operating activities 6,038 9,454 net liabilities, December 31 –4,917 3,231 Investing activities See also Note 35. Acquisition of businesses –6 –16 Investments in intangible assets –116 –225 Investments in property, plant and equipment –2,566 –2,351 Investments in PPP-portfolio –62 Investments in shares –108 –37 Increase in interest-bearing receivables –1,300 –1,394 Divestments of intangible assets 6 Divestments of property, plant and equipment 25 420 Divestment assets in the PPP portfolio 1,028 80 Divestments of shares 284 12 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables 1,607 1,229 Income tax paid –62 –29 Cash flow from investing activities –1,214 –2,367 Financing activities Net interest items 224 134 Other financial income and expense 79 22 Borrowings 2,497 1,419 Repayment of debt excluding lease liabilities –6,219 –1,565 Total cash outflow from leases –1,286 – Dividend paid –2,462 –3,373 Shares repurchased –72 Dividend to non-controlling interests –26 –27 Income tax paid 295 –47 Cash flow from financing activities –6,898 –3,509 Cash flow for the year –2,074 3,578 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 10,722 6,998 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 97 146 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 8,745 10,722 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 99 Consolidated cash flow statement, specification Consolidated cash flow statement, specification Consolidated operating cash-flow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities SEK M 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Construction Taxes paid in business operations –1,371 –443 Cash flow from operating activities 6,614 2,755 Cash flow from operating activities Change in working capital –262 2,600 including taxes paid 4,523 7,264 Net divestments(+)/investments(–) –1,503 –2,080 Net interest items, other financial items and Total Construction 4,849 3,275 repayment of lease liabilities –983 156 Taxes paid in financing operations 295 –47 Residential Development Cash flow from financing activities –688 109 Cash flow from operating activities –707 –476 Cash flow from operations 3,835 7,373 Change in working capital 1,055 26 Net divestments(+)/investments(–) 2,354 1,604 Strategic net divestments(+)/investments(–) –6 –16 Accrual adjustments1 Dividend etc.2 –2,488 –3,472 Total Residential Development 2,702 1,158 Cash flow before change in interestbearing receivables and liabilities 1,341 3,885 Commercial Property Development Change in interest-bearing receivables Cash flow from operating activities –917 –1,193 and liabilities excluding lease liabilities –3,415 ,–311 Change in working capital –1,130 1,393 Cash flow for the period –2,074 3,574 Net divestments(+)/investments(–) 775 3,823 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 10,722 6,998 Accrual adjustments1 209 –39 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 97 146 Total Commercial Property Development –1,063 3,984 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 8,745 10,718 Central and eliminations 1 Refers to payments made during the reporting year related to divestments/investments in Cash flow from operating activities –286 –692 prior years, and unpaid divestments/investments related to the reporting year. Change in working capital –314 17 2 Of which shares repurchased 0 –72 Net divestments(+)/investments(–) 6 –31 Total central and eliminations –594 –706 See also Note 35. Total cash flow from operating activities 4,704 394 Total change in working capital –651 4,036 Total net divestments(+)/investments(–) 1,632 3,316 Total accrual adjustments1 209 –39 Total cash flow from operating activities before taxes paid 5,894 7,707 100 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Parent company income statement Parent company income statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Revenue 45 729 739 Gross income 729 739 Selling and administrative expenses –533 –697 Operating income 48, 49, 61 196 42 Income from holdings in Group companies 46 2,896 3,982 Interest expense and similar items 46 –33 –51 Income after financial items 3,059 3,973 Tax on profit for the year 47 –21 –3 Profit for the year1 3,038 3,970 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 101 Parent company balance sheet Parent company balance sheet Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, SEK M Note 2019 2018 SEK M Note 2019 2018 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible non-current assets 48 11 13 Equity 54 Property, plant and equipment 49 Share capital 1,260 1,260 Plant and equipment 0 1 Statutory reserve 598 598 Total property, plant and 0 1 Restricted equity 1,858 1,858 equipment Retained earnings 3,892 2,168 Non-current financial assets 50 Profit for the year 3,038 3,970 Holdings in Group companies 51 11,318 11,283 Unrestricted equity 6,930 6,138 Holdings in joint arrangements 52 3 3 Receivables in Group companies 62 318 301 Total equity 8,788 7,996 Deferred tax assets 47 64 74 Provisions 55 Other non-current receivables 50 107 107 Provisions for pensions and similar Total non-current financial assets 11,810 11,768 obligations 56 173 176 Total non-current assets 11,821 11,782 Other provisions 81 139 Total provisions 254 315 Current receivables Non-current interest-bearing 57 Current receivables in Group liabilities companies 62 28 12 Liabilities to Group companies 62 2,816 3,500 Tax assets 8 14 Total non-current interest-bearing 2,816 3,500 Other current receivables 107 116 liabilities Prepaid expenses and accrued income 53 14 7 Current liabilities 57 Total current receivables 157 149 Trade accounts payable 21 18 Liabilities to Group companies 62 21 26 Total current assets 157 149 Other liabilities 5 6 Accrued expenses and prepaid ASSETS 58 11,978 11,931 income 73 70 Total current liabilities 120 120 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 58 11,978 11,931 102 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Parent company statement of changes in equity Parent company statement of changes in equity SEK M Share capital Statutory reserve Unrestricted equity Total equity Equity, January 1, 2018 1,260 598 5,355 7,213 Repurchase of 435,000 Series B shares –72 –72 Compensation from subsidiaries for shares issued under employee ownership programs 4 4 Dividend paid –3,373 –3,373 Share-based payments 254 254 Profit for 20181 3,970 3,970 Equity, December 31, 2018/ Equity, January 1, 2019 1,260 598 6,138 7,996 Compensation to subsidiaries for shares issued under employee ownership programs –29 –29 Dividend paid –2,462 –2,462 Share-based payments 245 245 Profit for 20191 3,038 3,038 Equity, December 31, 2019 1,260 598 6,930 8,788 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. See also Note 54. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 103 Parent company cash flow statement Parent company cash flow statement SEK M 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating income 196 42 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 15 20 Income tax paid –12 –17 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 199 45 Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables –14 20 Change in operating liabilities –61 5 Cash flow from change in working capital –75 25 Cash flow from operating activities 124 70 Investing activities Increase in interest-bearing receivables –17 –54 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables Cash flow from investing activities –17 –54 Financing activities Net interest items –33 –51 Dividends received 2,896 3,982 Repayment of debt –684 –677 Dividend paid –2,462 –3,373 Repurchase of shares –72 Income tax paid 7 11 Payments from subsidiaries for employee ownership programs 169 164 Cash flow from financing activities –107 –16 Cash flow for the year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 0 0 See also Note 60. 104 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Notes including accounting and valuation principles Amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise speciﬁed. Income is reported in positive ﬁgures and expense in negative ﬁgures. Both assets and liabilities are reported in positive ﬁgures. Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities are reported in positive figures if they are receivables and negative figures if they are liabilities. Accumulated depreciation/amortization and accumulated impairment losses are reported in negative ﬁgures. Table of contents, notes Group Page Group Page Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles 106 Note 35 Cash flow statement 164 Note 2 Key estimates and judgments 118 Note 36 Personnel 166 Note 3 Effects of changes in accounting principles 119 Note 37 Senior executive remuneration and Board fees 167 Note 4 Operating segments 120 Note 38 Fees and other remuneration to auditors 171 Note 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 123 Note 39 Related party disclosures 171 operations Note 40 Leases 171 Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk management 124 Note 41 Events after the reporting period 173 Note 7 Business combinations 133 Note 42 Five-year Group financial summary 174 Note 8 Revenue 134 Note 43 Definitions 179 Note 9 Contract assets and contract liabilities 134 Note 10 Operating expenses by category of expense 135 Note 11 Selling and administrative expenses 135 Note 12 Depreciation/amortization 135 Parent Company Page Note 13 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses 136 Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles 106 Note 14 Financial items 137 Note 44 Financial instruments 183 Note 15 Borrowing costs 137 Note 45 Revenue 183 Note 16 Income taxes 137 Note 46 Financial items 183 Note 17 Property, plant and equipment 140 Note 47 Income taxes 184 Note 18 Goodwill 142 Note 48 Intangible assets 184 Note 19 Intangible assets 143 Note 49 Property, plant and equipment 184 Note 20 A Subsidiaries 144 Note 50 Non-current financial assets 185 Note 20 B Investments in joint ventures and associated 145 Note 51 Holdings in Group companies 185 companies Note 52 Holdings in joint arrangements 186 Note 20 C Joint operations 148 Note 53 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 186 Note 21 Financial assets 149 Note 54 Equity 186 Note 22 Current-asset properties/Project development 150 Note 55 Provisions 187 Note 23 Inventories 151 Note 56 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 187 Note 24 Other operating receivables 151 Note 57 Liabilities 187 Note 25 Cash and bank balances 151 Note 58 Expected recovery periods for assets, provisions 188 Note 26 Equity/earnings per share 152 and liabilities Note 27 Financial liabilities 154 Note 59 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 189 Note 28 Pensions 154 Note 60 Cash flow statement 189 Note 29 Provisions 158 Note 61 Personnel 190 Note 30 Other operating liabilities 158 Note 62 Related party disclosures 190 Note 31 Specification of interest-bearing net receivables/net 159 Note 63 Disclosures in compliance with the Annual 191 liabilities per asset and liability Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section 2 a Note 32 Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities 160 Note 64 Supplementary information 191 Note 33 Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent 161 Note 65 Events after the reporting period 191 assets Note 66 Allocation of earnings 192 Note 34 Foreign exchange rates and effect of changes in 162 foreign exchange rates Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 105 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Consolidated accounting and valuation principles Conformity with laws and standards Early adoption of new or revised IFRS and interpretations In compliance with the ordinance approved by the European Union (EU) There has been no early adoption of new or revised IFRS or interpretations. on the application of international accounting standards, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to the International IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Income statement Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Items recognized as revenue are: project revenue, compensation for other (IASB), as well as the interpretations by the IFRS Interpretations Committee services performed, divestment of current-asset properties, deliveries of and its predecessor, the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), to the materials and merchandise, rental income and other operating revenue. extent these standards and interpretations have been approved by the EU. Revenue from the sale of machinery, equipment, non-current-asset In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s Recommendation properties and intangible assets is not included, but is instead recognized on RFR 1 “Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups” has been applied, as a net basis among operating expenses against the carrying amounts of the have the Statements of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. assets. See Note 10. The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Items reported as cost of sales include: direct and indirect manufacturing Group, except in the cases indicated below in the section “Parent Company expenses, loss risk provisions, the carrying amounts of divested currentaccounting and valuation principles.” asset properties, bad debt losses and warranty expenses. Also included is The Parent Company’s annual accounts and the consolidated annual depreciation on property, plant and equipment used in construction and accounts were approved for issuance by the Board of Directors on February property management. Changes in the fair value of derivatives related to 6, 2020. The Parent Company income statement and balance sheet and the operations are recognized in operating income. consolidated income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position will be Selling and administrative expenses include customary administrative subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on March 26, 2020. expenses, technical expenses and selling expenses, as well as depreciation of machinery and equipment that have been used in selling and administraConditions when preparing the Group’s financial reports tive processes. Goodwill impairment losses are also reported as selling and The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish crowns or kronor administrative expenses. (SEK), which is also the reporting currency of the Parent Company and of the Profit/loss from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax, is Group. The ﬁnancial reports are therefore presented in Swedish kronor. All recognized separately in the income statement and is included in operating amounts are rounded off to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. income. Preparing the ﬁnancial reports in accordance with IFRS requires Financial income and expenses are recognized divided into two items: management to make judgments and estimates, and to make assumptions “Financial income” and “Financial expense.” Among items recognized that affect the application of the accounting principles and the recognized under ﬁnancial income are interest income, dividends and other ﬁnancial amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Actual outcomes may items. Financial expense includes interest expense and other ﬁnancial items. deviate from these estimates and judgments. Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments, primarily derivatives Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates linked to ﬁnancing activities, are recognized as a separate sub-item are recognized in the period the change is made if the change only affects allocated between ﬁnancial income and ﬁnancial expenses. The net amount this period, or in the period the change is made and future periods if the of exchange-rate differences and gains/losses on divestments of shares are change affects both the period in question and future periods. recognized either as financial income or financial expense. Financial income Judgments made by management when applying IFRS with a substantial and expenses are described in more detail in Note 6 and in Note 14. impact on the ﬁnancial reports and estimates that may lead to signiﬁcant adjustments in the ﬁnancial reports of subsequent years are described in Comprehensive income more detail in Note 2. Aside from proﬁt for the year, the consolidated statement of comprehensive The accounting principles for the Group described below have been income includes the items that are included under “Other comprehensive applied consistently for all periods that are presented in the Group’s ﬁnanincome.” These include translation differences, hedging of exchange rate cial reports, unless otherwise indicated below. The accounting principles risks in foreign operations, remeasurement related to pension-linked assets for the Group have been applied consistently in reporting and consolidation and liabilities, effects of cash ﬂow hedges and tax on these items. of the Parent Company, subsidiaries, associated companies and joint arrangements. Statement of ﬁnancial position Assets New standards and interpretations Assets are allocated between current assets and non-current assets. An A new standard IFRS 16 is effective from January 1, 2019. Under IFRS asset is regarded as a current asset if it is expected to be realized within 16 Leases, as the lessee in operating leases as well, Skanska recognizes 12 months from the closing day or within the company’s operating cycle. operating leases in the statement of financial position, except for low-value The operating cycle is the period from the signing of a contract until the or short-term leases. Skanska has chosen to implement the standard company receives cash payment following a ﬁnal inspection or delivery of retrospectively with cumulative effect, i.e. without restating the compargoods (including properties). Since the Group executes large contracting ison periods and to apply the standard to contracts that were previously projects and project development, the operating cycle criterion means that identified as leases under IAS 17. Lines have been added to the balance many more assets are designated as current assets than if the only criterion sheet for property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets, current-asset were within 12 months. right-of-use assets as well as interest-bearing lease liabilities. Right-of-use Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available assets are depreciated over the term of the lease, except for current-asset deposits at banks and equivalent institutions, plus short-term liquid properties right-of-use assets, which are recognized in the same way as investments with a maturity from the acquisition date of less than three current-asset properties. The lease payments are divided up into an interest months that are subject to only an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. portion and an amortization portion. The application of IFRS 16 results in Checks that have been issued reduce cash and cash equivalents only when an increase in operating profit and a decrease in financial items. There is an cashed. Cash and cash equivalents that cannot be used freely are reported increase in cash flow from operating activities and a decrease in cash flow as current assets (current receivables) if the restriction will cease within 12 from financing activities. months from the closing day. In other cases, cash and cash equivalents are See the more detailed description of IFRS 16 later in this note, and a reported as non-current assets. Cash and cash equivalents belonging to description of its effects in Note 3 and Note 42. 106 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued joint operations are cash and cash equivalents with restrictions if they are Acquired companies are consolidated from the quarter within which the only permitted to be used to settle the joint operations’ debts. acquisition takes place. In a corresponding manner, divested companies are Assets that meet the requirements in IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held consolidated up to and including the ﬁnal quarter before the divestment for Sale and Discontinued Operations are accounted for as a separate item date. among current assets. Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated Note 31 shows the allocation between interest-bearing and non-interestin their entirety when the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared. bearing assets. Gains that arise from intra-Group transactions and that are unrealized In Note 32, assets are allocated between amounts for assets that are from the standpoint of the Group on the closing day are eliminated in their expected to be recovered within 12 months of the closing day and assets entirety. Unrealized losses on intra-Group transactions are also eliminated that are expected to be recovered later than 12 months from the closing in the same way as unrealized gains, to the extent that the loss does not day. The allocation between non-current non-ﬁnancial assets is based on correspond to an impairment loss. expected annual depreciation. The division for current-asset properties is Goodwill attributable to foreign operations is expressed in local currency. mainly based on outcomes during the past three years. This division is even Translation to SEK is in accordance with IAS 21. Information on goodwill is more uncertain than for other assets, since the outcome during the coming provided in Note 18. year is strongly influenced by the dates when large individual properties are handed over. IFRS 3 Business Combinations This accounting standard deals with business combinations, which are Equity mergers of separate entities or operations. If the acquisition does not relate The Group’s equity is allocated between “Share capital,” “Paid-in capital,” to business operations, as is normally the case when acquiring properties, “Reserves,” “Retained earnings” and “Non-controlling interests.” IFRS 3 is not applied. In such cases, the acquisition cost is instead allocated Acquisitions of treasury shares are recognized as a deduction from equity. among the individual identifiable assets and liabilities based on their fair Proceeds from the divestment of shares are recognized as an increase in values on the acquisition date, without recognizing goodwill and any equity. Any transaction costs are recognized directly in equity. deferred tax assets/tax liability resulting from the acquisition. Dividends are recognized as a liability once the Annual General Meeting Acquisitions of businesses, regardless of whether the acquisitions are of has approved the dividend. holdings in another company or a direct acquisition of assets and liabilities, A description of equity, the year’s changes and disclosures concerning are recognized according to the purchase method of accounting. If the capital management are provided in Note 26. acquisition is of holdings in a company, the method involves regarding the acquisition as a transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the Liabilities assets of the subsidiary and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. Liabilities are allocated between current liabilities and non-current The cost of the acquisition recognized in the consolidated accounts is liabilities. Recognized as current liabilities are liabilities that are either determined by means of an acquisition analysis in conjunction with the supposed to be paid within 12 months of the closing day or – in the case of business combination transaction. The analysis establishes both the cost business-related liabilities only – are expected to be paid within the operof the holdings or the business and the fair value of acquired identiﬁable ating cycle. Since the operating cycle is taken into account, no non-interassets plus the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. The difference est-bearing liabilities, such as trade accounts payable and accrued employee between the cost of acquiring holdings in a subsidiary and the net fair value expenses, are recognized as non-current. Liabilities that are recognized as of acquired assets and of the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed interest-bearing due to discounting are included among current liabilities, is goodwill on consolidation. If non-controlling interests remain after the since they are paid within the operating cycle. Interest-bearing liabilities acquisition, goodwill is normally calculated based only on the Group’s stake can be recognized as non-current even if they fall due for payment within in the acquired business. 12 months of the closing day if the original maturity was longer than 12 Transaction costs relating to business combinations are expensed immemonths and the company reaches an agreement on long-term reﬁnancing diately. In the case of step acquisitions, previous holdings are remeasured of the obligation before the end of the reporting period. Information on at fair value and recognized in proﬁt or loss when a controlling interest is liabilities is provided in Note 27 and Note 30. achieved. Contingent consideration is recognized on the acquisition date In Note 32, liabilities are allocated between amounts for liabilities to be at fair value. If the amount of the contingent consideration changes in paid within 12 months of the closing day and liabilities to be paid later than subsequent ﬁnancial statements, the change is recognized in proﬁt or loss. 12 months from the closing day. Note 31 also provides information about Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill the allocation between interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing liabilities. is allocated among cash-generating units and subject to annual impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements In the case of business combinations where the cost of acquisition is The consolidated ﬁnancial statements cover the accounts of the Parent below the net value of acquired assets and the liabilities and contingent Company and the companies in which the Parent Company has a direct liabilities assumed, the difference is recognized directly in proﬁt or loss. or indirect controlling interest. Under IFRS 10, a controlling interest exists when the investor has power over the business, or when it has rights to or IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is exposed to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and Foreign currency transactions has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Foreign currency transactions are translated into an entity’s functional If, on the acquisition date, a subsidiary meets the conditions to be classified currency at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Monetary as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, it is reported according to that assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional accounting standard. currency at the exchange rate in effect on the closing day. Exchange rate The sale of a portion of a subsidiary is recognized as a separate equity differences that arise in remeasurement are recognized in proﬁt or loss. transaction when the transaction does not result in a loss of controlling Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognized at historic cost are translated interest. If control of an operating Group company ceases, any remaining at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. holding is to be recognized at fair value. Non-controlling interests may be Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment recognized as a negative amount if a partly-owned subsidiary is operating where the companies in the Group conduct their business. at a loss. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 107 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued Financial statements of foreign operations fair value of the associated company’s or joint venture’s identiﬁable assets, Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other liabilities and assumed contingent liabilities is recognized in accordance with consolidated surpluses and deﬁcits, are translated to Swedish kronor at the IFRS 3. Under the equity method, the recognized carrying amount of the exchange rate in effect on the closing day. Revenue and expenses in foreign Group’s interest in associated companies and joint ventures is equivalent operations are translated to Swedish kronor at the average exchange rate. to the Group’s share of the associated company’s share capital, as well as goodwill on consolidation and any other remaining consolidated surpluses Net investment in foreign operations and deductions of internal proﬁts. The Group’s share of the associated Translation differences that arise in connection with translation of a foreign company’s or joint venture’s income after tax is recognized as “Income from net investment are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” joint ventures and associated companies” in the income statement. Any Foreign currency loans and currency derivatives for hedging of translation depreciation, amortization and impairment losses on acquired surpluses exposure are carried at the exchange rate on the closing day. Exchange rate have been taken into account. Dividends received from an associated differences are recognized, taking into account the tax effect, under “Other company or joint venture reduce the carrying amount of the investment. comprehensive income.” When the Group’s share of recognized losses in an associated company Hedging of translation exposure reduces the exchange rate effect when or joint venture exceeds the carrying amount of the holdings in the translating the ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations to SEK. Any consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the value of the holding is reduced to forward contract premium is accrued until maturity and is recognized as zero. Settlement of losses also occurs against long-term unsecured ﬁnancial interest income or interest expense. assets (subordinated loans), which, in substance, form part of Skanska’s When divesting a foreign operation, the related accumulated translation net investment in the associated company or joint venture and are thus differences and accumulated exchange rate differences from any currency recognized as shares. Continued losses are only recognized if the Group has hedges are transferred to the Group’s proﬁt or loss. provided guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company or joint venture, and then as a provision. IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Elimination of intra-Group proﬁts Discontinued operations constitute a portion of an entity’s operations that When proﬁts arise from transactions between the Group and an associated represent a separate line of business or major operations in a geographical company or a joint venture, the portion equivalent to the Group’s share of area and which are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate ownership is eliminated. If the carrying amount of the Group’s holding in line of business or major operations in a geographical area, or constitute a the associated company is less than the elimination of internal proﬁt, the subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. excess portion of the elimination is recognized as prepaid income. If a loss Classiﬁcation as discontinued operations occurs upon divestment, or arises from a transaction between the Group and an associated company at an earlier date when the operations meet the criteria to be classiﬁed as or a joint venture, the loss is eliminated only if it does not correspond to an held for sale. A disposal group that is to be shut down can also qualify as impairment loss on the asset. discontinued operations if it meets the above criteria. If a proﬁt or loss has arisen in the associated company or in a joint If a non-current asset or disposal group is to be classiﬁed as held for sale, venture, the elimination affects the income for the transaction year the asset (disposal group) must be available for sale in its present condition. recognized under “Income from joint ventures and associated companies.” It must also be highly probable that the sale will occur. In order for a sale to The elimination of the internal proﬁt is reversed in later ﬁnancial statements be highly probable, a decision must have been made at management level, based on how the asset is used or when it is divested. and active efforts to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been The equity method is applied until the date when the signiﬁcant inﬂuence initiated. The asset or disposal group must also be actively marketed at a in an associated company or the joint controlling interest in a joint venture price that is reasonable in relation to its fair value, and it must be probable ceases. The sale of an interest in an associated company or in a joint venture that the sale will occur within one year. Skanska also applies the principle is recognized on the date that the Group no longer has control over the that with regard to a single non-current asset, its value must exceed EUR holding. 100 M. Note 20 B provides information about associated companies and joint No depreciation or amortization of a non-current asset takes place as ventures. long as it is classiﬁed as held for sale. Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale as well as disposal groups IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and liabilities attributable to them, and discontinued operations are A joint arrangement exists when the co-owners are bound by a contractual recognized separately in the statement of ﬁnancial position. arrangement, and the contractual arrangement gives those parties joint control of the arrangement. The joint arrangement may be either a joint IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures s operation or a joint venture. A joint operation exists where the co-owners Companies in which the Skanska Group exercises a signiﬁcant but not a have rights to the assets of the arrangement and obligations for the liabilicontrolling inﬂuence, which is presumed to be the case when the Group’s ties of the arrangement. A joint arrangement that is not structured through holding is between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power, are reported the formation of a separate company is a joint operation. Contracting as associated companies. In addition, it is presumed that this ownership is projects executed in cooperation with outside contracting companies, with one element of a long-term connection and that the holding will not be joint and several liability, are reported by Skanska as joint operations. If reported as a joint arrangement. the joint arrangement is a separate company but the vast majority of the Associated companies are recognized according to the equity method, company’s production is acquired by the co-owners and there is no obstacle as are joint ventures. See IFRS 11 on joint ventures. to its sale to an external party, the joint arrangement is often considered to be a joint operation. In other cases the arrangement is a joint venture. If The equity method the co-owners of the joint arrangement only have rights to the net assets of From the date when Skanska gains a signiﬁcant inﬂuence in an associated the arrangement, it is a joint venture. Classiﬁcation of a joint arrangement company, or a joint controlling interest in a joint venture, holdings in requires a determination of its legal form, the terms of the contractual associated companies and joint ventures are recognized in the consolidated arrangement between the co-owners and other circumstances. ﬁnancial statements according to the equity method. Any difference upon For joint operations the revenue, costs, assets and liabilities of the joint acquisition between the cost of the holding and Skanska’s share of the net operation are included line by line in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 108 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued according to Skanska’s interest in the joint operation. Joint operations are If the contract includes a signiﬁcant ﬁnancing component, the transaction described in Note 20 C. price is to be adjusted for the effect of the time value of the money. Changes The equity method is used for joint ventures when preparing the to and supplementary orders in contracts that have not yet been approved consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This method is described under the by the customer do not require an increase in the transaction price in the heading IAS 28. project’s estimated income upon completion. In connection with PPP projects, the Group’s investment may include Where there is a non-cash consideration, this is measured at fair value. If either holdings in or subordinated loans to a joint venture. Both are treated a customer defers goods or services, an assessment is made as to whether in the accounts as shares in joint ventures. it has gained control of these; if this is the case, they are recognized as nonNote 20 B provides information about joint ventures and a speciﬁcation cash revenue received from the customer. of signiﬁcant holdings in joint operations is given in Note 20 C. The revenue/transaction price is allocated in step four over the separate performance obligations in the contract if more than one obligation exists. IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The allocated transaction price for each individual obligation is to reﬂect the IFRIC 12, which affects Skanska’s joint ventures within the PPP portfolio, consideration that the company is expecting to have the right to in exchange deals with the question of how the operator of a service concession should for the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer, based on account for the infrastructure, as well as the rights it receives and the a relative, stand-alone selling price. obligations it undertakes under the agreement. The operator constructs or Revenue is recognized in step ﬁve when the performance obligation upgrades infrastructure (construction or upgrade services) used to provide is satisﬁed, either over time or at a point in time, and when the customer a public service and maintains the infrastructure (operation services) for a obtains control of the asset. Revenue is recognized over time when the speciﬁed period of time. Construction or upgrade services and operation customer simultaneously receives and consumes the beneﬁts provided services are reported in accordance with IFRS 15. The consideration may through the entity’s performance, when the entity’s performance creates or be rights to a ﬁnancial asset or an intangible asset. If the operator has an enhances an asset that the customer controls, or when the entity’s perforunconditional right in speciﬁed or determinable amounts (the consideration mance does not create an asset with an alternative use for the entity and the model is based on availability through the provision of, for example, a entity also has the right to payment for its performance completed to date. hospital or an airport), a ﬁnancial asset is recognized. IFRS 9 requires interest If a performance obligation is not satisfied over time as stated above, the to be calculated on this financial receivable. The customer does not pay entity fulfills the obligation at a certain point in time. This takes place at the until the facility is put into operation, and the payment received is then point when the customer gains control of the promised asset. Indicators for reported as a reduction in the financial receivable. If the operator is instead determining control can be that the entity has the right to receive payment entitled to charge the user of the public service (the consideration model is for the asset, the customer has the legal right of ownership of the asset, the based on market risk through, for example, road tolls) an intangible asset is entity has transferred the physical possession of the asset, the customer has recognized, which is amortized over the life cycle of the project. The road the material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset or the tolls received in payment are recognized as revenue. customer has accepted the asset. Costs relating to obtaining a contract, i.e., costs the entity would have IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers had if it had not won the contract, are recognized as an asset only if the Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognized based on a ﬁve-step model. Step one entity is expecting to have those expenses covered. Expenses to complete involves identifying the contract with a customer. If two or more contracts a contract that does not fall under a standard other than IFRS 15 are are entered into with a customer at the same time and the price of one recognized as an asset if the expenses have a direct link to a contract or contract is dependent on the other contract, the contracts are combined. to an expected contract, if the expenses create or enhance resources that A contract modiﬁcation involves a change to the scope or price (or both) of will be used to fulﬁll the performance obligation in the future and that a contract that has been approved by the contracting parties. A contract are also expected to be recovered. These “Assets arising from expenses to modiﬁcation exists when the parties approve a change that either creates obtain or complete a contract with a customer” are included in the line item new or changes existing rights and responsibilities for the contracting “Contract assets” and are reported in Note 9. parties. A contract modiﬁcation is treated as a separate contract when the Contract assets and contract liabilities are recognized net of revenue scope of the contract increases due to the addition of promised goods or recognized and invoiced amounts per project. Construction contracts often services which are distinct and where the price of the contract is raised by an allow for invoicing in advance. Once an amount has been invoiced, a trade amount reﬂecting the company’s stand-alone selling price for the additional account receivable is recognized. goods or services promised. If the parties have not approved a contract Loss contracts are expensed immediately and provisions for losses modiﬁcation the entity is to continue applying the standard for the existing are made for the remaining work to be done and recognized according to contract until such time as the contract modiﬁcation is approved. IAS 37. Step two involves identifying the separate performance obligations in the As stated under the heading “Segment reporting compared with contract. A performance obligation is a promise to the customer to transfer IFRS reporting”, a different principle is used to establish when revenue goods or services that are distinct, or a series of distinct goods or services is recognized in segment reporting for the Residential Development and that are essentially the same and follow the same model for transfer to the Commercial Property Development business streams. customer. Goods or services are distinct if the customer can benefit from the The Construction business stream builds and renovates buildings, goods or services either on their own or in combination with other resources industrial facilities and infrastructure. It also executes service-related that are readily available to the customer and if the entity’s promise to transassignments, in areas such as construction services and facility operations fer the goods or services to the customer is separately identifiable from the and maintenance. This business serves both public and private customers. other promises in the contract. Skanska’s customer contracts are usually of A combination of contracts happens rarely, but contract modifications, the type that do not require categorization into two or more performance such as those related to additional orders, are common. In most cases the obligations. added goods or services are not distinct and therefore form part of a single In step three the transaction price is determined. This determination performance obligation that is partially met at the time of the contract involves establishing a ﬁxed agreed price, variable consideration, any conmodification and is reported as being a part of the existing contract. tingent considerations, bonuses and penalties. If there is variable considerMost often the contracts, within this business stream, contain only one ation, an estimate is made of the highest amount of revenue that will likely performance obligation. Performance obligations in the Construction not require a reversal of accumulated revenue in later reporting periods. business stream are the construction contract or the service that is to be Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 109 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued delivered, for example the construction of a building on the customer’s assumes this right only when fulfilling a contract obligation. Prior to the land or the maintenance of existing facilities, such as roads. If an agreement completion of a project, Skanska normally only has the right to an indemnity involves operations in different geographical locations, delivered during not equal to work performed to date. Revenue is therefore recognized at a different time periods or with different risk exposures, the breakdown of point in time when the property is handed over to the customer. several performance obligations may be relevant. It is considered appropriate to recognize the sale of properties through If there is a right to variable remuneration, such as incentive agreements, divestment of companies according to IFRS 15 and not as divested compathis is taken into account to the extent that it is highly unlikely it will be nies under IFRS 10 as it is an asset that is being divested, not a company with reversed at a later date. a business. Revenue is recognized over time in the Construction business stream, The PPP portfolio includes development of hospitals, airports, roads and when the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits other necessary social structures. The accounting of these projects complies provided through the entity’s performance or when Skanska creates or with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, which in turn accounts for enhances an asset that the customer controls. revenue according to IFRS 15. Revenue is recognized over time, determined each quarter, on the basis of accumulated project expenses in relation to estimated accumulated project IFRS 16 Leases – Applies to the financial year beginning on expenses upon completion. January 1, 2019 The Residential Development business stream develops and sells new Leases, with the exception of leases with a term of less than 12 months residential and rental units. Its customers consist mainly of private persons. and leases where the underlying asset is of low value, are recognized The reason for recognizing revenue is usually an agreement to sell a specific in the statement of ﬁnancial position as property, plant and equipment unit, such as a residential apartment. Contract modifications are rare, but right-of-use assets, current-asset properties right-of-use assets as well as are included in the original contract if they do occur. interest-bearing lease liabilities. The performance obligation in the Residential Development business A contract is a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an idenstream is the handing over of an apartment that is ready for occupation. The tified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Non-lease transaction price is a fixed price according to the terms of the sales agreement. components in a contract, such as servicing costs, are separated out and not Revenue is recognized at the point in time when the keys to the home are included in the calculation of the value of the right-of-use asset where it is handed over to the individual buyer. In other words, it is recognized when possible to separate such costs. Contracts with subcontractors are generally the buyer has taken possession of the apartment and has full control over considered to be service agreements since Skanska is requesting a service it as the owner. This is based on Skanska being deemed not to be entitled and the contract does not give Skanska control over a specific asset. Hire to full payment until fulfillment of its contract obligation. Even if a certain of tower cranes and scaffolding, which in large construction projects are advance payment is made by the buyer, Skanska is not entitled to full generally hired for a long period, is reported as leases. payment for the work completed to date. This is due to the fact that sales When assessing whether an asset is of low value, the asset is grouped contracts contain clauses that allow the buyer in certain situations to withwith assets on which it is heavily dependent or with which it is linked. Where draw from the contract during construction without reimbursing Skanska in the asset can be substituted by the supplier and it is practically possible to do the manner required for the recognition of revenue over time. so, a lease is not considered to exist since Skanska does not have control over Skanska initiates and enters into agreements with newly formed Swedish the specific asset. cooperative housing associations or Finnish housing corporations for the The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, taking into construction of homes. Under the terms in these agreements Skanska consideration any extension or termination option for the contract and has a controlling influence and thus consolidates the cooperative housing whether it is reasonably certain that this option will be exercised. Currentassociations and housing corporations during the construction period and asset properties right-of-use assets which are in practice always extended until the end-customer takes possession, at which point Skanska no longer are considered to be perpetual rights of use and the lease term is then set at has a controlling influence. Homes not yet transferred are recognized as 100 years. current-asset properties. Rights of use of property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the In the Commercial Property Development stream Skanska initiates, lease term except in the case of perpetual rights of use of land, which are invests in, develops and leases commercial properties that it sells to real not depreciated at all since the remaining lease term is always a constant estate investors. 100 years. Rights of use for current-asset properties – both those considered Within this business stream the performance obligation to the customer to be perpetual and those with a fixed lease term – are not depreciated at all (the property investor) is to deliver an investment holding in the form of since they are reported in accordance with IAS 2. a commercial property, usually with tenants. If land is sold prior to the When making payments on a lease, the payment is divided between commencement of construction work, the sale of land is a performance interest expense and reduction of the outstanding liability. Payments obligation on its own, which means that the construction work becomes a relating to rights of use that are not depreciated are recognized entirely as separate performance obligation within the Construction business stream. interest expense, since – as mentioned earlier – the liability is unchanged. The development of commercial projects is a continuous process with The interest expense is capitalized during the construction period in the case a number of clearly defined phases. The average development cycle from of rights of use for current-asset properties. the initial project idea to its completion is five to seven years. Divestment In the case of sale and leaseback transactions, the seller only recognizes normally occurs at the end of the cycle, when a project is completed. The the gain that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer, while a right of performance obligation is to hand over a fully developed property that use is recognized for the rights retained. usually becomes an investment holding of the customer. The combination of contracts rarely occurs. In some cases, Skanska also IAS 17 Leases – Applies to financial years ending on assists the investor with renting the property, an undertaking that may be December 31, 2018 a separate performance obligation. The transaction price is usually a fixed The accounting standard distinguishes between ﬁnance and operating price according to the terms of the contract. leases. A ﬁnance lease is characterized by the fact that the economic risks When the contract with the customer is signed, there is no alternative use and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset have substantially been for the property. If Skanska is entitled to payment for any work performed transferred to the lessee. If this is not the case, the agreement is regarded as to date, this would depend on the contractual terms and conditions and on an operating lease. the applicable legislation. Skanska’s assessment is, however, that it usually 110 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued Finance leases and asphalt plants as well as concrete mixing plants are depreciated over 10 Assets that are leased under a finance lease, as a lessee, are recognized as to 25 years depending on their condition when acquired and without being assets. The obligation to make future lease payments is recognized as a divided into different parts. For other buildings and equipment, division non-current or current liability. The leased assets are depreciated during into different components occurs only if major components with different their respective useful lives. When making payments on a ﬁnance lease, useful lives can be identiﬁed. For other machinery and equipment, the the minimum lease payment is divided between interest expense and depreciation period is normally between ﬁve and 10 years. Minor equipment reduction of the outstanding liability. Interest expense is allocated over the is recognized as an expense immediately. Gravel pits and stone quarries are lease period in such a way that each reporting period is charged an amount depreciated as materials are removed. Land is not depreciated. Assessments equivalent to a ﬁxed interest rate for the liability recognized during each of an asset’s residual value and period of service are performed annually. respective period. Variable payments are recognized among expenses in the The carrying amount of a property, plant and equipment item is removed periods when they arise. from the statement of ﬁnancial position when it is disposed of or divested, Assets leased under ﬁnance leases, as a lessor, are not recognized as or when no further economic beneﬁts are expected from the use or property, plant and equipment, since the risks incidental to ownership have divestment of the asset. been transferred to the lessee. Instead a ﬁnancial receivable is recognized for the future minimum lease payments. IAS 38 Intangible Assets This accounting standard deals with intangible assets. Goodwill that arises Operating leases upon acquisition of companies is recognized in accordance with the rules in As for operating leases, the lease payment is recognized as an expense/ IFRS 3. as revenue over the lease term on the basis of utilization, and taking into An intangible asset is an identiﬁable non-monetary asset without account the beneﬁts that have been provided or received when signing the physical substance that is used for producing or supplying goods or lease. services or for leasing and administration. To be recognized as an asset, The Commercial Property Development business stream carries out operit is necessary both that it be probable that future economic beneﬁts ating lease transactions. Information on future minimum lease payments attributable to the asset will ﬂow to the entity and that the cost can be (rents) is provided in Note 40, which also contains other information about reliably calculated. It is especially worth noting that expenditures recognized leases. directly in prior annual or interim reporting periods may not subsequently be recognized as an asset. IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Research expenses are recognized in the income statement as they arise. Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets if it is probable that Development expenses, which are expenses for designing new or improved future economic beneﬁts from them will flow to the Group and the cost materials, structures, products, processes, systems and services by applying of the assets can be reliably calculated. Property, plant and equipment are research ﬁndings or other knowledge, are recognized as assets if it is recognized at cost minus accumulated depreciation and any impairment probable that the asset will generate future revenue. Other development losses. Cost includes the purchase price plus expenses directly attributable expenses are expensed directly. Expenses for regular maintenance and to the asset in order to bring it to the location and condition to be used modiﬁcations of existing products, processes and systems are not in the intended manner. Examples of directly attributable expenses are recognized as development expenses. Nor is work performed on behalf delivery and handling costs, installation, ownership documents, consultant of a customer recognized as development expenses. fees and legal services. Borrowing costs are included in the cost of property, Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized at cost minus plant and equipment produced by the Group. Impairment losses are applied accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Impairment losses are in accordance with IAS 36. applied in accordance with IAS 36. The cost of property, plant and equipment produced by the Group Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a straight-line includes expenditures for materials and remuneration to employees, plus basis, or based on the degree of use, over the useful life of intangible assets, other applicable manufacturing costs that are considered attributable to the to the extent such a period can be determined. Consideration is given to asset. any residual value at the end of the period. Acquired customer contracts Further expenditures are added to cost only if it is probable that the are amortized at the pace of completion and patents are amortized over Group will derive future economic beneﬁts from the asset and the cost 10 years. Investments in major computer systems are amortized over a can be reliably calculated. All other further expenditures are recognized as maximum of seven years. expenses in the period when they arise. Further expenditures for capitalized intangible assets are recognized The decisive factor in determining when a further expenditure is added to as an asset only when they increase the future economic beneﬁts of the cost is whether the expenditure is related to replacement of identiﬁed comspeciﬁc asset to which they are attributable. ponents, or parts thereof, at which time such expenditures are capitalized. In cases where a new component is created, this expenditure is also added IAS 36 Impairment of Assets to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amounts for replaced components, or Assets covered by IAS 36 are tested on every closing day for indications of parts thereof, are disposed of and recognized as an expense at the time of impairment. Exempted assets, for example inventories (including currentreplacement. If the cost of the removed component cannot be determined asset properties), assets arising when construction contracts are carried directly, its cost may be estimated as the cost of the new component out and ﬁnancial assets included within the scope of IFRS 9, are measured adjusted by a suitable price index to take into account inﬂation. Repairs are according to the respective accounting standard. recognized as expenses on a continuous basis. Impairment losses are determined on the basis of the recoverable Property, plant and equipment that consist of parts with different useful amount of assets, which is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value lives are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. in use. In calculating value in use, future cash ﬂows are discounted using Depreciation occurs on a straight-line basis during the estimated useful life, a discounting factor that takes into account risk-free interest and the risk or based on degree of use, taking into account any residual value at the end associated with the asset. Estimated residual value at the end of the asset’s of the period. Ofﬁce buildings are divided into foundation and frame, with useful life is included as part of value in use. For assets that do not generate a depreciation period of 50 years, installations of 35 years, and non-weightcash ﬂows that are essentially independent of other assets, the recovery bearing parts of 15 years. In general, industrial buildings are depreciated value is calculated for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. over a 20-year period without allocation into different parts. Stone crushing A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that generates Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 111 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued cash inﬂows that are independent of other assets or groups of assets. Deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and loss For goodwill, the cash-generating unit is mainly the same as the Group’s carryforwards are recognized only to the extent it is likely that they can be business unit or other unit reporting to the Parent Company. If the business utilized. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer unit operates in more than one business stream, the cash-generating unit considered probable that they can be utilized. is no larger than the identified business stream to which goodwill has been allocated. Operations that are not integrated into the business unit’s other IAS 2 Inventories operations are exempted from the main rule. Aside from customary inventories of goods, the Group’s current-asset In Construction and Residential Development, the recoverable amount properties are also encompassed by this accounting standard. Both of goodwill is based on value in use, which is calculated by discounting current-asset properties and inventories of goods are measured item by item expected future cash ﬂows. The discounting factor is the weighted average in accordance with the lowest cost principle, which means that a property cost of capital (WACC) applicable to the operation. See Note 18. or item is measured either by its acquisition cost or net realizable value, Impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is allocated whichever is lower. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the mainly to goodwill. After that, a proportionate impairment loss is applied ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion and the to other assets included in the unit. estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Goodwill impairment is not reversed. A goodwill-related impairment loss When item-by-item measurement cannot be applied, the cost of invenrecognized in a previous interim report is not reversed in a later full-year tories is assigned by using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) formula and includes report or interim report. expenditures that have arisen from acquisition of inventory assets and from Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been a change bringing them to their present location and condition. For manufactured in the assumptions on which the estimate of the recoverable amount was goods, cost includes a reasonable share of indirect costs based on normal based. capacity utilization. Materials not yet installed at construction sites are not An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the carrying recognized as inventories, but are included among project expenses. amount of the asset after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount Except for properties that are used in Skanska’s own business, the Group’s that the asset would have had if no impairment loss had occurred, taking property holdings are reported as current assets, since these holdings are into account the amortization that would then have occurred. included in the Group’s operating cycle. The operating cycle for currentasset properties is around three to ﬁve years. IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Acquisitions of properties are recognized in their entirety only upon the Borrowing costs are capitalized provided that it is probable that they will transfer of legal ownership, which normally occurs on completion of the result in future economic beneﬁts and the costs can be measured reliably. purchase. Property acquisitions through purchases of property-owning comGenerally speaking, capitalization of borrowing costs is limited to assets panies are recognized when the shares have been taken over by Skanska. that take a substantial period of time for completion, which in the Group’s Current-asset properties are divided up between Commercial Property case mainly means the construction of current-asset properties and properDevelopment and Residential Development. They are also categorized as ties for the Group’s own use (non-current-asset properties). Capitalization “Development properties,” “Properties under construction” or “Completed occurs when expenditures included in acquisition cost have arisen and properties.” Note 22 provides information about these properties. activities to complete the building have begun. Capitalization ceases when Before impairment losses, properties both completed and under conthe building is completed. Borrowing costs during an extended period when struction are valued based on costs paid directly, a reasonable proportion work to complete the building is interrupted are not capitalized. If separate of indirect costs and interest expense during the construction period. borrowing has occurred for the project, the actual borrowing cost is used. Information on market appraisal of properties is provided at the end of In other cases, the cost of the loan is calculated on the basis of the Group’s this note. borrowing cost. Information on customary inventories of goods is found in Note 23. IAS 12 Income Taxes IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are Provisions recognized in the income statement except when the underlying transaction A provision is recognized when the Group has a legal or informal obligation is recognized directly under “Other comprehensive income,” in which case as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic the accompanying tax effect is also recognized there. Current tax is tax to be resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of paid or received that is related to the year in question, applying the tax rates the amount can be made. that have been decided or have effectively been decided as of the closing Skanska makes provision for future expenses relating to warranty day; this also includes adjustment of current tax attributable to earlier obligations according to construction contracts that involve a liability for periods. the contractor to remedy errors and omissions that are discovered within Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based a certain period after the contractor has handed over the property to the on temporary differences arising between reported and ﬁscal values of customer. Such obligations may also be required by law. assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated based on how the tempoLoss contracts are recognized in the form of a provision for the remaining rary differences are expected to be settled and by applying the tax rates and work to be done. tax rules that have been decided or announced as of the closing day. The A provision is made for disputes related to completed projects if it is probfollowing temporary differences are not taken into account: for a temporary able that a dispute will result in an outﬂow of resources from the Group. difference that has arisen upon initial recognition of goodwill, the initial Provisions for restructuring charges are recognized when a detailed recognition of assets and liabilities that are not business combinations and restructuring plan has been adopted and the restructuring has either begun which, on the transaction date, affect neither recognized proﬁt nor taxable or been publicly announced. proﬁt. Also not taken into account are temporary differences attributable to When accounting for interests in joint ventures and associated compashares in subsidiaries and associated companies that are not expected to be nies, a provision is made when a loss exceeds the carrying amount of the reversed in the foreseeable future. Offsetting of deferred tax assets against holding and the Group has a payment obligation. deferred tax liabilities occurs when there is a right to settle current taxes between companies. 112 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued Contingent liabilities expenses over the employee’s period of employment. Actuarial assumpContingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events and tions about the discount rate, wage or salary increases, inﬂation and life whose existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurexpectancy are taken into account in the calculation. Pension obligations for rence of one or more future events not wholly within the control of the post-employment beneﬁts are discounted to present value. Discounts are company. Also reported as contingent liabilities are obligations arising from calculated for all three countries where Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension past events that have not been recognized as a liability because it is not plans using an interest rate based on the market return on high quality likely that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, corporate bonds including mortgage bonds, with maturities matching the or the size of the obligation cannot be estimated with sufﬁcient reliability. pension obligations. Pension plan assets are recognized at fair value on The amounts of contract fulﬁllment guarantees are included until the the closing day. In the statement of ﬁnancial position, the present value of contracted work has been transferred to the customer, which normally pension obligations is recognized after subtracting the fair value of plan occurs upon its approval in a ﬁnal inspection. If the guarantee covers all or assets. The pension expense and the return on plan assets recognized in most of the contract sum, the amount of the contingent liability is calcuthe income statement refer to the pension expense and return estimated lated as the contract sum minus the value of the portion performed. In cases on January 1. The return on plan assets is calculated using the same where the guarantee only covers a small portion of the contract sum, the interest rate as is used to discount the pension obligations. Any differences guarantee amount remains unchanged until the contracted work is handed compared to actual pension expense and actual return, as well as effects of over to the customer. The guarantee amount is not reduced by being offset changed assumptions, together constitute remeasurement and are reported against payments not yet received from the customer. Guarantees that have in “Other comprehensive income.” been received from subcontractors and suppliers of materials are not taken If the terms of a deﬁned-beneﬁt plan are signiﬁcantly amended, or the into account, either. If the Group receives reciprocal guarantees related to number of employees covered by a plan is signiﬁcantly reduced, a curtailexternal consortium members’ share of joint and several liability, these are ment occurs. Obligations are recalculated according to the new conditions. not taken into account. Tax cases, court proceedings and arbitration are not The effect of the curtailment is recognized in proﬁt or loss. included in contingent liability amounts. Instead, a separate description is When there is a difference between how pension expense is determined provided. in a legal entity and the Group, a provision or receivable is recognized for In connection with contracting assignments, security is often provided the difference for taxes and social insurance contributions based on the in the form of a completion guarantee from a bank or insurance institution. company’s pension expenses. The provision or receivable is not calculated The issuer of the guarantee, in turn, normally receives an indemnity from at present value, since it is based on present-value ﬁgures. Deferred taxes the contracting company or other Group company. Such indemnities related and social insurance contributions on remeasurements are recognized under to the Group’s own contracting assignments are not reported as contingent “Other comprehensive income.” liabilities, since they do not involve any increased liability compared to the Obligations related to contributions to deﬁned-contribution plans are contracting assignment. recognized as expenses in the income statement as they arise. Note 33 presents information about contingent liabilities. The Group’s net obligation related to other long-term employee beneﬁts, aside from pensions, amounts to the value of future beneﬁts that employees Contingent assets have earned as compensation for the services they have performed during Contingent assets are possible assets arising from past events and whose the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of projected unit credit method and is discounted to present value, and the fair one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the value of any plan assets is subtracted. The discount rate is again based on company. the yield on high quality corporate bonds including mortgage bonds, or govIn the Group’s construction operations, claims for additional compenernment bonds, with a maturity matching the maturity of the obligations. sation from the customer are not uncommon. If the right to additional A provision is recognized in connection with termination of employees’ compensation is conﬁrmed, this affects the valuation of the project employment only if the company is obligated through its own detailed when reporting according to IFRS 15. As for claims that have not yet been formal termination plan – and there is no realistic possibility of annulling conﬁrmed, it is not practicable to provide information about these, unless the plan – to end employment before the normal date, or when benefits there is an individual claim of substantial importance to the Group. are offered in order to encourage voluntary resignation. In cases where the company terminates employees’ employment, the provision is calculated on Assets pledged the basis of a detailed plan that includes at least the location, function and Shares in joint ventures within the PPP-portfolio are reported as assets approximate number of employees affected, as well as the beneﬁts for each pledged when the shares in the project company, which may be directly job category or position and the time at which the plan will be implemented. owned by Skanska or owned via an intermediate holding company, are Only an insigniﬁcant percentage of the Group’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension pledged as collateral for loans from banks or lenders other than the obligations were ﬁnanced by premiums to the retirement insurance co-owners. company Alecta. Since the required figures cannot be obtained from Alecta, Note 33 provides information about assets pledged. these pension obligations are reported as a defined-contribution plan. Since the same conditions apply to the AFP plan in Norway, this is also reported as IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts a deﬁned-contribution plan. This accounting standard makes a distinction between deﬁned-contribution and deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans. Deﬁned-contribution pension plans IFRS 2 Share-based Payment are deﬁned as plans in which the company pays ﬁxed contributions into a The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as separate legal entity and has no obligation to pay further contributions, share-based payment settled with equity instruments, in accordance with even if the legal entity does not have sufﬁcient assets to pay all employee IFRS 2. This means that the fair value is calculated on the basis of market beneﬁts relating to their service until the closing day. Other pension plans value at the time of investment and expected fulﬁllment of targets. This are deﬁned-beneﬁt plans. Calculation of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans value is allocated over the respective vesting period. After the fair value according to IAS 19 is carried out in a way that often deviates from local is established, there is no reappraisal during the remainder of the vesting rules in each country. Obligations and costs are to be calculated according period, except in the case of changes in the number of shares because to the projected unit credit method. The purpose is to recognize expected the condition of continued employment during the vesting period is no future pension disbursements as expenses in a way that yields more uniform longer met. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 113 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued Social insurance contributions IFRS on two points. In segment reporting a divestment gain is recognized Social insurance contributions that are payable in connection with shareon the date a sales contract is signed. In segment reporting joint ventures based payments are reported in accordance with statement UFR 7 from the are recognized within Residential Development line by line according to the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The cost of social insurance contributions proportional method of accounting. This means that Construction’s revenue is allocated over the period when the services are performed. The provision from joint ventures within Residential Development operations is eliminated that arises is reappraised on each ﬁnancial reporting date to correspond to the in segment reporting. Note 4 presents a reconciliation between segment estimated contributions that are due at the end of the vesting period. reporting and the income statement in accordance with IFRS. Note 4 provides information about operating segments. Financial IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows reporting to the Group Leadership Team focuses on the areas for which In preparing its cash ﬂow statement, Skanska applies the indirect method each respective operating segment is operationally responsible: operating in accordance with the accounting standard. Aside from cash and bank balincome in the income statement and capital employed. For each respective ance ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents are to include short-term investments operating segment, the note thus reports external and internal revenue, whose conversion into bank balances may occur in an amount most of cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses and capital employed. which is known in advance. Short-term investments with maturities of less Capital employed refers to total assets minus tax assets and receivables than three months are regarded as cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash invested in Skanska’s treasury unit (internal bank) less non-interest-bearing equivalents that are subject to restrictions are reported either as current liabilities excluding tax liabilities. In the calculation of capital employed, a receivables or as non-current receivables. capitalized interest expense is removed from total assets for the Residential In addition to the cash ﬂow statement prepared in accordance with the Development and Commercial Property Development segments. Acquisition standard, the Report of the Directors presents an operating cash ﬂow stategoodwill has been reported in the operating segment to which it relates. ment that does not conform to the structure speciﬁed in the standard. The In transactions between operating segments, pricing occurs on market operating cash ﬂow statement was prepared on the basis of the operations terms. that the different business streams carry out. Certain parts of the Group do not belong to any operating segment. These are reported in Note 4 under the heading “Central and eliminations.” IAS 33 Earnings per Share Operating segment income includes intra-Group proﬁts and, consequently, Earnings per share are reported directly below the consolidated income these are eliminated during reconciliation with the consolidated income statement and are calculated by dividing the portion of proﬁt for the year statement and the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position. that is attributable to the Parent Company’s equity holders (shareholders) In addition to information about operating segments, Note 4 provides by the average number of shares outstanding during the period. disclosures on external revenue for the entire Group and disclosures on the For Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs, the dilution effect allocation of certain assets divided by countries with more than ten percent is calculated by adding potential ordinary shares to the number of ordinary of the Group’s total items. shares before dilution. The calculation of potential ordinary shares occurs in two stages. First there is an assessment of the number of shares that IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period may be issued when established targets are reached. The number of shares Events after the end of the reporting period may, in certain cases, conﬁrm a for the respective program year is then determined the following year, situation that existed on the closing day. Such events are taken into account provided that the condition of continued employment is met. In the next when the ﬁnancial reports are prepared. Information is provided about step, the number of potential ordinary shares is reduced by the value of the other events that occur after the closing day and before the ﬁnancial report consideration that Skanska is expected to receive, divided by the average is signed if the omission of such information would affect the ability of a market price of a share during the period. reader to make an accurate assessment and a sound investment decision. Such information is provided in Note 41. IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures According to this accounting standard, information must be provided about IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation transactions and agreements with related companies and physical persons. Offsetting of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities occurs when an entity In the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, intra-Group transactions fall has a legal right to offset items against each other and intends to either outside this reporting requirement. Notes 36, 37 and 39 provide disclosures settle these items on a net basis or simultaneously divest the asset and settle in accordance with the accounting standard. With respect to the Parent the liability. Company, this information is provided in Notes 61 and 62. Prepaid income and expenses are not ﬁnancial instruments. Accrued income and expenses that are related to the business are not recognized IAS 40 Investment Property as ﬁnancial instruments. Thus, contract assets and contract liabilities are Skanska is not reporting any investment properties. Properties that are used not included under financial instruments. Obligations for employee beneﬁt in the Group’s own operations are reported in accordance with IAS 16. The plans in accordance with IAS 19, such as pension plans, are exempt from Group’s holdings of current-asset properties are covered by IAS 2 and thus IAS 32 and are thus not recognized as ﬁnancial instruments. Assets and fall outside the application of IAS 40. liabilities that are not based on contracts, such as income taxes, are not considered ﬁnancial instruments. IFRS 8 Operating Segments Information in accordance with the accounting standard is provided According to this standard, an operating segment is a component of the mainly in Notes 6, 21 and 27. Group carrying out business operations whose operating income is evaluated regularly by the Group’s highest executive decision-maker and about IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which separate ﬁnancial information is available. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the recognition of ﬁnancial assets Skanska’s operating segments consist of its business streams: Construction, and liabilities. Categories exempt from application according to IFRS 9 Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. include holdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, The Group Leadership Team is the Group’s highest executive decisionleases, rights under employment contracts, treasury shares, financial maker. instruments as described in IFRS 2, and rights and responsibilities within The principle for segment reporting of Residential Development and IFRS 15 except for the rights in IFRS 15 where an impairment requirement Commercial Property Development in the income statement deviates from according to IFRS 9 applies. All ﬁnancial instruments, including derivatives, 114 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued are recognized as a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability in the statement ty-weighted amount, the time value of money, reasonable and supportable of ﬁnancial position when the entity becomes a party to the contractual information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future provisions of the instrument. A regular way purchase or sale of a ﬁnancial economic conditions. asset is recognized in and derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial The purpose of hedge accounting is so that, in its ﬁnancial statements, position using trade date accounting. A ﬁnancial asset is derecognized from an entity can report the effect of its risk management where ﬁnancial the statement of ﬁnancial position when the contractual rights to cash ﬂows instruments are used to manage exposure from speciﬁc risks that would from the ﬁnancial asset expire or when the entity transfers the contractual impact results. A derivative that is measured at fair value through profit or rights to receive cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset or retains the contracloss can be identified as a hedging instrument. A financial asset or liability tual rights to receive cash ﬂows, but assumes a contractual obligation to that is not a derivative measured at fair value through profit or loss can be pay cash ﬂows to one or more recipients. A ﬁnancial liability is derecognized identified as a hedging instrument unless it is a financial liability identified from the statement of ﬁnancial position only when the contractual obligaas measured at fair value through profit or loss for which the amount of tion is fulﬁlled, canceled or expires. the change in fair value arising from changes in credit risk for the liability Presentation of ﬁnancial assets is based on the entity’s business model is recognized in other comprehensive income. In hedge accounting, only and the contractual cash ﬂows of the asset. contracts with an external party outside the Group can be identiﬁed as A ﬁnancial asset is measured at amortized cost if the asset is held within hedging instruments. A hedged item may be a recognized asset or liability, the framework of a business model the objective of which is to hold ﬁnanan unrecognized binding commitment, a highly likely forecast transaction or cial assets in order to collect contractual cash ﬂows, and the cash ﬂows on a net investment in foreign operations. A hedging relationship only qualifies speciﬁed dates are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal for hedge accounting when the following criteria have been met: the hedgamount outstanding. ing relationship consists only of eligible hedging instruments and eligible A ﬁnancial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive hedged items, where there is a formal designation and documentation for income if the asset is held according to a business model the objective of the hedging relationship and the entity’s risk management objective and which can be achieved both by collecting contractual cash ﬂows and selling strategy for undertaking the hedge, and where the effectiveness requireﬁnancial assets, and the cash ﬂows are solely payments of principal and ment for the hedges has been met. The effectiveness requirement is met interest on the principal amount outstanding. A ﬁnancial asset is measured when there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the at fair value though proﬁt or loss if it is not measured at amortized cost or at hedging instrument, the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value fair value through other comprehensive income. changes that result from the economic relationship, and the hedge ratio of All ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortized cost with the exception the hedging relationship is the same as the ratio between the quantity of of: the hedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantity that the a) financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (such entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged items. liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, are thereafter to be Skanska uses hedge accounting for cash ﬂow hedging and hedging of measured at fair value); net investment in foreign operations. Hedge accounting is used for cash b) ﬁnancial liabilities arising when a transfer of a ﬁnancial asset does not ﬂow hedges when a future cash ﬂow is attributable to a recognized asset meet the criteria for derecognition from the statement of ﬁnancial or liability or a highly probable future transaction. Hedge accounting for position or where a continued commitment is appropriate; hedging of net investments in foreign operations is applied when the net c) ﬁnancial guarantee contracts; investment is in line with IAS 21. d) a loan commitment with interest that is below the market interest rate; A cash ﬂow hedge is recognized as follows: and a) t he separate component in equity, cash flow hedge reserve, which is e) a contingent consideration acknowledged by an acquiring party in linked to the hedged item is to be adjusted to the lower of the following: connection with a business combination covered by IFRS 3 (such conthe cumulative gains or losses from the hedging instrument from the date tingent consideration is thereafter measured at fair value with changes the hedge was entered into or the cumulative change in fair value for the recognized through proﬁt or loss). hedged item from the date the hedge was entered into; An entity is only entitled to reclassify all relevant ﬁnancial assets when b) the portion of the gain or loss for a hedging instrument that has been the entity changes its business model for managing ﬁnancial assets. determined to be an effective hedge is recognized in other comprehensive Reclassiﬁcation of ﬁnancial liabilities is not permitted. income; Financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus or c) t he remaining gain or loss for the hedging instrument is hedging ineffecminus transaction costs upon acquisition of a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial tiveness that is to be recognized through proﬁt or loss; liability, for a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability that is not measured at fair d) t he amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve derived from the value through proﬁt or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a signifcash ﬂow hedged in accordance with a) is to be recognized as follows: icant financing component are measured upon initial recognition at their i) if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently leads to recognition of transaction price (as defined in IFRS 15). After initial recognition, ﬁnancial a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, or a hedged forecast transaction for a assets are measured at amortized cost, fair value through other comprehennon-ﬁnancial asset or liability becomes a binding commitment for which sive income or fair value through proﬁt or loss. Subsequent measurement of hedge accounting of fair value is used, the entity is to deduct this from ﬁnancial liabilities is at amortized cost or fair value through proﬁt or loss. the reserve originating from the cash ﬂow hedge and include it directly An entity is to apply the impairment requirement to expected credit in the initial cost or other recognized value for the asset or liability; losses on ﬁnancial assets and a loss provision for these is to be recognized ii) for all cash ﬂow hedges except those covered by i) this amount is to as a deduction from the asset. On every closing day the loss provision is to be reclassiﬁed from the reserve originating from the cash ﬂow hedge be equivalent to an amount reﬂecting the expected credit losses for the to proﬁt or loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment in the same period or remaining time until maturity if the credit risk has increased signiﬁcantly periods during which the hedged expected future cash ﬂows affect since it was initially recognized. If the credit risk has not increased signiﬁproﬁt or loss; cantly since it was ﬁrst recognized, the loss provision is to be equivalent iii)if this amount is a loss and an entity is expecting all or part of the loss to 12 months of expected credit losses. For trade receivables, contractual not to be recovered during one or more future periods, the amount not assets and lease receivables, the loss provision is always to be at an amount expected to be recovered is to be immediately reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or equivalent to the remaining time to maturity. An entity is to measure loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment. expected credit losses taking into account an objective and probabiliHedging of net investments in foreign operations, including a hedge Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 115 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Continued of a monetary item that is recognized as part of a net investment, is to be pensions and similar beneﬁts. Furthermore, the same disclosures must be ­recognized in a similar way to cash ﬂow hedges: the portion of the gain or provided individually for each of the Board members and for the President loss for the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge and CEO, as well as individuals previously holding these positions. Employee is to be recognized through other comprehensive income, and the remainrepresentatives are exempted. der is to be recognized through profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss for Note 36 provides information about loans, assets pledged and contingent the hedging instrument that is attributable to the effective portion of the liabilities on behalf of Board members and of Presidents and CEOs within hedge and that has accumulated in the currency translation reserve is to be the Group. reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss upon disposal or partial disposal of Information must also be provided on fees to auditors and the accounting the foreign operations. ﬁrms where the auditors work. See Note 38. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Order bookings and order backlog The company provides disclosures that enable the evaluation of the In contracting assignments, an order booking refers to a written order signiﬁcance of ﬁnancial instruments for the entity’s ﬁnancial position and conﬁrmation or signed contract, provided that ﬁnancing has been arranged performance. The disclosures also enable an evaluation of the nature of and construction is expected to commence within 12 months. If a previously ﬁnancial instruments and risks associated with them to which the company received order is canceled in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is has been exposed during the period and is exposed to at the end of the recognized as a negative item when reporting order bookings for the quarter reporting period. These disclosures also provide a basis for assessing how when the cancellation occurs. Reported order bookings also include orders these risks are managed by the company. This standard supplements the from Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, which principles for recognizing, measuring and classifying ﬁnancial assets and presupposes that building permits are in place and construction is expected liabilities in IAS 32 and IFRS 9. to begin within three months. For services related to ﬁxed-price work, the The standard applies to all types of ﬁnancial instruments, with the primary order booking is recorded when the contract is signed, and for services related exception of holdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, to cost-plus work, the order booking corresponds to revenue. For service as well as obligations for employee beneﬁt plans in accordance with IAS 19, agreements, a maximum of 24 months of future revenue is included. such as pension plans. The disclosures that are provided thus include accrued No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and interest income, deposits and accrued interest expense. Accrued income Commercial Property Development. relating to contracting assignments is not a ﬁnancial instrument. Order backlog refers to the difference between order bookings for a The disclosures provided are supplemented by reconciliation with other period and accrued revenue (accrued project expenses plus accrued project items in the income statement and in the statement of ﬁnancial position. revenue adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of Disclosures in accordance with this accounting standard are presented the period. in Note 6. The order backlog in the accounts of acquired subsidiaries on the date of acquisition is not reported as order bookings, but is included in order IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of backlog amounts. Government Assistance “Government assistance” refers to action by the government designed Market appraisal to provide an economic beneﬁt speciﬁc to one company or a category of Commercial Property Development companies that qualify based on certain criteria. Government grants are Note 22 provides the estimated market value of Skanska’s current-asset assistance from the government in the form of transfers of resources to a properties. For completed commercial properties and for development company in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions properties, the market value for the majority of properties has been relating to its operations. calculated in cooperation with external appraisers. The value of ongoing Government grants are recognized as prepaid income or a reduction of projects is measured internally. The calculated market value of ongoing an investment when there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be projects refers to each property once it is completed and fully occupied. received and that the Group will meet the criteria for receiving the grant. Residential Development The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 In appraising properties in Residential Development, market value is calcuSupplementary Accounting Rules for Groups lated taking into account the value that can be obtained within the usual The recommendation speciﬁes what further disclosures must be provided economic cycle and refers to properties once they are completed. in order for the annual accounts to comply with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. The additional information mainly relates to disclosures on employees. PPP portfolio Disclosures on the number of employees, gender distribution and Skanska obtains an estimated value for the PPP portfolio by discounting distribution among countries are provided in Note 36. The number of estimated future cash ﬂows in the form of dividends and repayments of employees during the year was calculated as an average of the average loans and equity by a discount rate based on country, risk model and project number of employees during the quarters in the year. In this calculation, phase for the various projects. The discount rate chosen is applied to all part-time employment is equivalent to 60 percent of full-time employment. future cash ﬂows starting on the appraisal date. This is based on the most Employees belonging to operations divested during the year are included up recently updated ﬁnancial model. This ﬁnancial model describes all cash until the date of divestment. Employees of acquired companies are included ﬂows in the project and serves as the ultimate basis for ﬁnancing, which is from the date of acquisition. carried out with full project risk and without guarantees from Skanska. Information on the gender distribution among senior executives refers An estimated value is stated solely for projects that have reached contracto the situation on the closing day. “Senior executives” in the various subtual and ﬁnancial close. All ﬂows are appraised: investments in the project sidiaries refers to the members of the management teams of the respective (equity and subordinated debenture loans), interest on repayments of suborbusiness units. This information is provided in Notes 36 and 37. dinated loans, as well as dividends to and from the project company. Today In addition to Board members and the President and CEO, all other all investments except New Karolinska Solna are denominated in currencies persons in the Group Leadership Team must be included in the group for other than Swedish kronor, and there is thus also an exchange rate risk. which a separate account is to be provided of the total amounts of salaries Estimated values have in part been calculated in cooperation with and other remuneration, as well as expenses and obligations related to external appraisers and are stated in Note 20 B. 116 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 1. Parent Company accounting and valuation principles The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in compliance with Group contributions are recognized in accordance with the general rule the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s in RFR 2. Recommendation RFR 2, “Accounting for Legal Entities.” According to RFR The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as 2, the annual accounts of the legal entity must apply the International share-based payment settled with equity instruments, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting IFRS 2. The portion of the Group’s expense for these employee ownership Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board programs that relates to employees of subsidiaries is recognized in the (IASB), to the extent these have been approved by the EU, as well as the Parent Company as an increase in the carrying amount of holdings in subsidinterpretations by the IFRS Interpretations Committee and its predecessor iaries and an increase in equity. When the amount to be debited to the subthe Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), as far as this is possible within sidiary is established, a transfer is made to “Receivables from subsidiaries.” the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the Where compensation from subsidiaries for shares that have been allocated connection between accounting and taxation. A presentation of the various deviates from the previously reported increase in the carrying amount of accounting standards can be found in the Group Note 1. The statements of holdings in subsidiaries, the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries is the Swedish Financial Reporting Board must also be applied. reduced to the portion of the amount that does not exceed the previously reported increase. Any remaining portion of the compensation is recognized Important differences compared to consolidated accounting directly in equity. principles The income statement and balance sheet conform to the presentation In accordance with RFR 2, IFRS 9 is not applied to ﬁnancial guarantee agreeformats in the Annual Accounts Act. ments beneﬁting subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures. Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans are reported according to the regulations Instead, IAS 37 is applied, which normally means that provisions for these in the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Pension obligations secured by measures are not recognized since it is unlikely that an outﬂow of resources assets in pension funds are not recognized in the balance sheet. will be required to settle the obligation. In compliance with RFR 2, IFRS 16 is not applied to leases. Instead the lease payments are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, unless a different systematic approach better reflects the economic benefit over time. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 117 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 2. Key estimates and judgments Key estimates and judgments Disputes The Group Leadership Team has discussed with the Board and the Audit Although management’s best judgment is used in reporting disputed Committee the developments and disclosures relating to the Group’s amounts, the actual future outcomes may deviate from the judgment made. important accounting principles and estimates, as well as the application See Note 33 and Note 29. of these principles and estimates. Some important accounting-related estimates that were made when Investments in the PPP portfolio applying the Group’s accounting principles are described below. The estimated investment amounts are provided in Note 20 B. Estimated market value is based on discounting anticipated cash ﬂows for each Goodwill impairment testing respective investment. Estimated yield requirements on investments of this When calculating the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to type have been used as discount rates. Changes in anticipated cash ﬂows, determine if there is any goodwill impairment, several assumptions about which in a number of cases extend 20 to 30 years into the future, and/or future conditions and estimates of parameters have been made. These changes in yield requirements, may materially affect both estimated values are presented in Note 18. As understood from the description in this note, and carrying amounts for each investment. important changes in the basis for these assumptions and estimates might have a substantial effect on the value of goodwill. Current-asset properties The stated combined market value in Note 22 is calculated on the basis of Pension assumptions prevailing price levels in the respective location of the individual properties. Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in a number of countries. Changes in the supply of similar properties, as well as changes in demand The plans are recognized according to IAS 19, which means that pension due to changed yield requirements, may materially affect both estimated commitments are calculated using actuarial assumptions and that plan market values and carrying amounts for each property. assets are measured at market value on the closing day. The effects of In Commercial Property Development, the estimated market value for changed actuarial assumptions and changes in the market value of plan ongoing projects is assessed for each property once it is completed and fully assets are recognized as remeasurements in other comprehensive income. occupied. The remeasurements impact interest-bearing pension liabilities and equity. In Residential Development the supply of capital and the price of capital The assumptions and prerequisites that provide the basis for recognition for ﬁnancing home buyers’ investments are critical factors. The market value of pension liability, including a sensitivity analysis, are presented in Note 28. assessed here too is the value of the properties once they are completed and taking into account the value that may be added in a normal economic cycle. Revenue recognition over time The accounting principle applied to the sale of properties via the divestment Skanska applies revenue recognition over time in the Construction business of companies is stated in Note 1. stream. This means that, based on projected ﬁnal project results, income is recognized successively during the course of the project according to degree Prices of goods and services of completion. In order to do this, project revenue and project expenses In the Skanska Group’s operations, there are many different forms of conmust be able to be reliably determined. This in turn requires that the Group tractual mechanisms. The degree of risk associated with the price of goods has efﬁcient, coordinated systems for calculation, forecasting and revenue/ and services varies greatly depending on the contract type. expense reporting. The method also requires consistent assessment (foreSharp increases in material prices may pose a risk, particularly to casts) of the ﬁnal outcome of the project, including analysis of deviations long-term projects with ﬁxed-price commitments. A shortage of human from earlier assessments. This critical assessment is performed at least once resources and certain inputs may also adversely impact operations. Delays every quarter. However, actual future project outcomes may deviate, either in the design phase or changes in design are other circumstances that may positively or negatively, from this assessment. adversely affect projects. 118 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 3. Effects of changes in accounting principles As of January 1, 2019 the IFRS accounting rules have changed for lease The transition from operating leases according to IAS 17 to lease liabilities recognition (IFRS 16 replaces the previous IAS 17). As of January 1, 2018 the according to IFRS 16 is shown below. The large difference between accounting rules have changed for revenue recognition (IFRS 15 replaces the under­t akings for operating leases of SEK 22.0 billion and future discounted previous IAS 11, IAS 18 and IFRIC 15) and recognition of financial assets and minimum lease payments of SEK 8.6 billion is primarily due to real property liabilities (IFRS 9 replaces the previous IAS 39). right-of-use assets. These types of right-of-use assets often have a longer The accounting principles were changed in accordance with the transition term which means there is a significant difference between the nominal rules. amount and the discounted present value. IFRS 16 Transition from operating leases according to IAS 17 to lease liabilities For Skanska, IFRS 16 involves expanding the balance sheet to include according to IFRS 16, SEK billion lines for property, plant and equipment right of-use assets, current-asset 2018 properties right of-use assets and lease liabilities. Undertakings for operating leases as of December 31, 2018 21,981 The effects of IFRS 16 were reported upon its implementation on January 1, 2019 and are presented in the following table. Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases, discounted at the rates set out in the Leases ending within twelve months were treated in the same way as table below. 8,626 short-term leases, see Note 1. Minus short-term leases –549 Initial direct expenses prior to the implementation date were eliminated in the measurement of the right-of-use assets on the date of first applicaMinus leases where the underlying asset has a low value –458 tion. Minus leases reclassified as service agreements –344 Plus finance leases reclassified 282 Effect on the Group, January 1, 2019 Plus leases with a purchase option that is certain to be exercised 1 Before the After the SEK M change Change change Plus leases with variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate 219 Property, plant and equipment 7,645 –282 7,363 Minus amounts not expected to be payable under residual Non-current right-of-use assets – 4,762 4,762 value guarantees –8 Current right-of-use assets – 2,865 2,865 Lease liabilities according to IFRS 16 7,769 Current financial receivables 7,117 18 7,135 Deferred tax asset 1,933 15 1,948 Other operating receivables 27,243 –49 27,194 Total assets 43,938 7,329 51,267 Equity 29,347 –67 29,280 Non-current financial liabilities 3,912 –280 3,632 Lease liabilities – 7,769 7,769 Current financial liabilities 7,310 –2 7,308 Other operating liabilities 38,072 –91 37,981 Total equity and liabilities 78,641 7,329 85,970 Skanska’s expected marginal interest rates on loans used upon transition to IFRS 16, broken down by currency and lease, are as follows: Country (currency) Discount rate, % Lease term 1 year 2 years 3 years 5 years 10 years 15 years 30 years Czech Republic (CZK) 3.4 3.6 3.6 3.7 4.0 4.4 4.9 – Czech Republic (EUR)1 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.5 2.4 3.0 3.7 Denmark (DKK) 0.8 0.9 1.1 1.4 2.3 2.9 3.7 Finland (EUR) 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.4 2.3 2.9 3.6 Hungary (HUF) 2.3 2.8 3.1 3.6 4.8 5.6 6.3 – Hungary (EUR)1 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.6 2.5 3.1 3.8 Norway (NOK) 2.4 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.6 3.9 4.6 Poland (PLN) 3.0 3.1 3.4 3.7 4.4 4.9 5.5 – Poland (EUR)1 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.5 2.4 3.0 3.7 Romania (RON) 4.6 4.9 5.1 5.4 6.1 6.8 7.5 – Romania (EUR)1 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.6 2.5 3.1 3.8 Sweden (SEK) 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.7 2.6 3.2 3.9 UK (GBP) 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.6 3.1 3.4 4.0 USA (USD) 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.3 4.7 5.0 5.4 1 If the functional currency is EUR. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 119 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 3. Continued Note 4. Operating segments IFRS 15 Skanska’s business streams – Construction, Residential Development and For Skanska, IFRS 15 involved a reclassification from contract liabilities and Commercial Property Development are recognized as operating segments. from other operating liabilities to provisions for losses, on the line “Current As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a separate provisions.” This standard will not require any change in segment reporting business stream but is reported under Central. These business streams coinfor Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. cide with Skanska’s operational organization used by the Group Leadership IFRS 15 was implemented with full retrospective effect, i.e. the consoliTeam to monitor operations. The Group Leadership Team is also Skanska’s dated financial statements were restated for 2017 due to the implementa“chief operating decision maker.” tion of IFRS 15. Each business stream carries out distinct types of operations associated The effects on the opening balance for 2017 are presented in the with different risks. Construction includes both building construction and following table. civil construction. Residential Development develops residential projects for immediate Effect on the Group, January 1, 2017 sale. Homes are adapted for selected customer categories. The units in this segment are responsible for planning and selling projects. The construction Before the After the SEK M change Change change assignments are performed by construction units in the Construction business stream in each respective market. Commercial Property Development Contract liabilities (Gross amount due to customers for contract initiates, develops, leases and divests commercial property projects. Project work) 18,473 –151 18,322 development focuses on office buildings, retail and logistics properties. Other operating liabilities 36,080 –236 35,844 Construction assignments are performed in most markets by Skanska’s Construction segment. Current provisions 7,227 387 7,614 Construction assignments are performed by the construction units where Skanska has construction operations. Intra-Group pricing between operating segments occurs on market terms. The segment “Central” IFRS 9 includes the cost of Group headquarters, earnings of central companies and IFRS 9 requires a new impairment model for anticipated credit losses due to operations that are being discontinued. Eliminations consist mainly of profits the possible future inability of customers to pay. in Construction operations related to property projects. See also Note 1. The effects of IFRS 9 were reported upon its implementation on January 1, 2018 and are presented in the following table. Revenue and expenses by operating segment Each business stream has operating responsibility for its income statement Effect on the Group, January 1, 2018 down through “operating income.” Before the After the SEK M change Change change Assets and liabilities by operating segment Deferred tax assets 1,757 40 1,797 Each business stream has operating responsibility for its capital employed. Current financial assets 6,671 –30 6,641 The capital employed by each business stream consists of its total assets Other operating receivables 27,778 –150 27,628 minus tax assets and intra-Group receivables invested in Skanska’s treasury unit (internal bank) less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabiliEquity 27,185 –140 27,045 ties. In the calculation of capital employed, a capitalized interest expense is removed from total assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments. Acquisition goodwill has been reported in the business stream to which it belongs. Cash flow by segment is presented as a separate statement: Consolidated operating cash flow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables. 120 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 4. Continued Commercial Residential Property Total Difference in ConDevelopDevelopoperating Total accounting Total 2019 struction ment ment segments Central Eliminations segments principles IFRS External revenue 146,000 12,431 17,773 176,204 578 176,782 –3,936 172,846 Revenue from internal customers 13,579 52 77 13,708 362 –14,070 0 0 Total revenue 159,579 12,483 17,850 189,912 940 –14,070 176,782 –3,936 172,846 Cost of sales –149,142 –10,497 –13,749 –173,388 –350 14,005 –159,733 3,193 –156,540 Gross income 10,437 1,986 4,101 16,524 590 –65 17,049 –743 16,306 Selling and administrative expenses –6,702 –791 –960 –8,453 –1,028 12 –9,469 –9,469 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 37 146 183 50 15 248 343 591 Operating income 3,772 1,195 3,287 8,254 –388 –38 7,828 –400 7,428 of which depreciation/ amortization –2,846 –25 –86 –2,957 –86 –3,043 –3,043 of which impairment losses/ reversals of impairment losses Goodwill –367 –110 –70 –547 –547 –547 Other assets 35 –188 –19 –172 –172 –172 of which gains from sale of commercial properties 4,275 4,275 240 4,515 –677 3,838 of which gains from sale of PPP portfolio 72 72 72 Employees 33,225 551 427 34,203 553 34,756 Gross margin, % 6,5 15,9 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,2 –6,3 Operating margin, % 2,4 9,6 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 11,730 90 423 12,243 127 –12 12,358 12,358 Intangible assets 4,319 334 14 4,667 255 4,922 4,922 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 284 743 245 1,272 2,177 –7 3,442 3,442 Current-asset properties 11 17,041 33,977 51,029 –676 50,353 50,353 Capital employed –2,640 12,954 34,495 44,809 11,129 55,938 55,938 Investments –2,542 –9,437 –12,946 –24,925 –47 3 –24,969 –24,969 Divestments 1,039 11,793 13,713 26,545 105 –55 26,595 26,595 Net investments –1,503 2,356 767 1,620 58 –52 1,626 1,626 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 159,579 12,483 17,850 189,912 940 –14,070 176,782 Plus properties sold before the period 13,247 5,708 18,955 79 19,034 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –13,520 –9,285 –22,805 –49 –22,854 Plus revenue of joint ventures in Residential Development –532 –532 232 –300 Exchange-rate differences 191 –7 184 184 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 159,579 11,869 14,266 185,714 940 –13,808 172,846 Operating income according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 3,772 1,195 3,287 8,254 –388 –38 7,828 Plus properties sold before the period 2,012 888 2,900 43 2,943 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,001 –1,492 –3,493 –35 –3,528 Plus operating income of joint ventures in Residential Development 200 200 200 New intra-Group proﬁts –37 –37 Exchange-rate differences 29 –6 23 –1 22 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 3,772 1,435 2,677 7,884 –388 –68 7,428 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 121 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 4. Continued Commercial Residential Property Total Difference in ConDevelopDevelopoperating Total accounting Total 2018 struction ment ment segments Central Eliminations segments principles IFRS External revenue 143,264 10,739 16,248 170,251 243 170,494 1,236 171,730 Revenue from internal customers 14,630 23 14,653 412 –15,065 0 0 Total revenue 157,894 10,739 16,271 184,904 655 –15,065 170,494 1,236 171,730 Cost of sales –149,849 –8,558 –12,335 -170,742 -744 14,994 –156,492 –973 –157,465 Gross income 8,045 2,181 3,936 14,162 -89 –71 14,002 263 14,265 Selling and administrative expenses –6,998 –676 –928 -8,602 -872 –9,474 1 –9,473 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 52 61 113 181 5 299 556 855 Operating income 1,099 1,505 3,069 5,673 -780 –66 4,827 820 5,647 of which depreciation/ amortization –1,700 –1 –6 -1,707 -73 –1,780 –1,780 of which impairment losses/ reversals of impairment losses Goodwill –393 -393 –393 –393 Other assets –102 –72 –107 -281 -9 6 –284 –284 of which gains from sale of commercial properties 4,005 4,005 321 4,326 150 4,476 of which gains from sale of PPP portfolio 0 58 58 58 Employees 37,006 542 414 37,962 688 38,650 Gross margin, % 5,1 20,3 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,4 –6,3 Operating margin, % 0,7 14,0 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 7,570 7 20 7,597 61 –13 7,645 7,645 Intangible assets 4,598 421 9 5,028 271 5,299 5,299 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 244 470 337 1,051 2,252 –15 3,288 3,288 Current-asset properties 11 16,712 26,301 43,024 –633 42,391 42,391 Capital employed –6,148 13,636 26,672 34,160 12,027 46,187 46,187 Investments –2,526 –10,542 –11,452 -24,520 -111 91 –24,540 –24,540 Divestments 430 12,146 15,275 27,851 168 –179 27,840 27,840 Net investments –2,096 1,604 3,823 3,331 57 –88 3,300 0 3,300 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 157,894 10,739 16,271 184,904 655 –15,065 170,494 Plus properties sold before the period 14,646 5,116 19,762 19,762 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –13,247 –5,708 -18,955 –79 –19,034 Plus revenue of joint ventures in Residential Development –160 -160 303 143 Exchange-rate differences 228 137 365 365 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 157,894 12,206 15,816 185,916 655 –14,841 171,730 Operating income according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 1,099 1,505 3,069 5,673 -780 –66 4,827 Plus properties sold before the period 2,315 1,274 3,589 30 3,619 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,012 –888 -2,900 –43 –2,943 Plus operating income of joint ventures in Residential Development 36 36 36 New intra-Group proﬁts 27 27 Exchange-rate differences 33 48 81 81 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 1,099 1,877 3,503 6,479 -780 –52 5,647 122 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 4. Continued External revenue according to IFRS by geographical area Sweden UK USA Norway Other1 Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Construction 29,210 29,932 20,458 22,161 66,951 61,936 15,910 14,232 13,703 15,306 146,232 143,567 Residential Development 5,725 6,684 1,942 2,064 4,149 3,379 11,816 12,127 Commercial Property Development 3,178 3,845 746 5,245 4,301 1,481 437 3,570 7,211 14,220 15,794 Central and eliminations 252 17 22 44 38 64 282 101 578 242 Total operating segments 38,365 40,478 21,204 22,183 72,240 66,275 19,333 16,797 21,704 25,997 172,846 171,730 1 No geographical area with revenue accounting for 10 percent or more of the Group’s total revenue is included. The Group has no customers that account for 10 percent or more of its revenue. Non-current assets and current-asset properties by geographical area Investments in Property, plant joint ventures and Current-asset and equipment Intangible assets associated companies properties 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Norway 2,683 1,496 1,338 1,379 86 156 3,706 4,034 Poland 329 327 6 13 1,407 5,884 Sweden 3,146 2,326 545 668 1,402 1,392 14,231 12,609 UK 1,420 205 1,252 1,503 116 65 52 418 USA 2,948 2,362 655 653 1,751 1,588 12,277 9,543 Other1 1,832 929 1,126 1,083 87 87 18,680 9,903 12,358 7,645 4,922 5,299 3,442 3,288 50,353 42,391 1 No geographical area with revenue accounting for 10 percent or more of the Group’s total items is included. Note 5. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations are recognized in accordance with IFRS 5, see Note 1. No operations were recognized as discontinued in 2019 or 2018. At the end of 2019, there were no non-current assets that were recognized in accordance with IFRS 5 as current assets and specified as assets held for sale. Nor were there any such non-current assets in 2018. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 123 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Financial instruments and financial risk management Financial instruments are reported in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial credit risk associated with derivative instruments, the Group has also signed Instruments, IFRS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7 standardized netting agreements (ISDA agreements) with all ﬁnancial Financial Instruments: Disclosures. counterparties with whom Skanska has entered into derivative contracts. Skanska’s contract assets and contract liabilities are not recognized as When investing in surplus funds the objective is to always achieve good a financial instrument and the risk associated with these receivables and risk diversiﬁcation. As of the end of the year surplus funds were primarily liabilities is thus not reported in this note either. invested with larger banks with a global presence, mainly from the Nordic Risks in partly-owned joint venture companies in the PPP portfolio are region, Europe, USA and Japan. Skanska currently uses around 10 banks for managed within each respective joint venture company. Skanska’s aim is to derivative transactions. ensure that financial risk management within these companies is equivalent Maximum exposure is equivalent to the fair value of the assets and to that which applies to the Group’s wholly owned companies. As the conamounts to SEK 16,618 M (19,272).The average maturity of interest-bearing tract period in many cases amount to decades, management of the interest assets amounted to 0.3 (0.3) years as of December 31, 2019. rate risk in financing is essential in each joint venture company. This risk is The Group’s financial interest-bearing assets as of December 31, 2019, managed with the help of long-term interest rate swaps. These holdings primarily consisting of bank balances and investments in short-term debt are reported according to the equity method of accounting. As a result, the instruments, were still considered to have a low credit risk as of the closing financial instruments in each joint venture company are included under the day as the assets have a high credit rating and thus the lost provision for the item “Income from joint ventures and associated companies.” Disclosures assets is based on 12 months of expected credit losses. on financial instruments in joint ventures and and associated companies are not included in the following disclosures. Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Maximum exposure in outstanding Financial risk management receivables 16,618 19,272 Through its operations, aside from business risk, Skanska is exposed to of which derivatives 128 72 various financial risks such as credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. These risks are associated with the Group’s reported financial instruments such Less adjustment from fair value –14 –8 as cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing receivables, trade accounts Loss provision for expected credit losses receivable, trade accounts payable, borrowings and derivatives. according to IFRS 9 –21 –25 Carrying amount 16,583 19,239 Objectives and policy The Group endeavors to achieve a systematic assessment of both financial Change in impairment losses on and business risks. To do this a common risk management model is used. interest-bearing assets and derivatives 2019 2018 The risk management model does not involve avoidance of risk but is instead January 1 25 0 aimed at identifying and managing the risks. Changed accounting principle, Note 3 30 Through the Group’s Financial Policy, each year the Board of Directors establishes guidelines, objectives and limits for financial management Adjusted amount at beginning of year 25 30 and administration of financial risk within the Group. The Financial Policy Adjustment loss provision according to IFRS 9 –4 –5 regulates the distribution of responsibility among Skanska’s Board, the December 31 21 25 Group Leadership Team, Skanska Financial Services (Skanska’s Group Function for financial services) and the business units. Customer credit risk – risk in trade accounts receivable Within the Group, Skanska Financial Services has operational Customer credit risk is managed through Skanska Group’s common proceresponsibility for securing Group financing and for managing liquidity, dures for identifying and managing risk: Skanska Tender Approval Procedure financial assets and financial liabilities. A centralized financial unit enables (STAP) and Project Scrutiny and Approval Procedure (PSAP). Skanska to take advantage of economies of scale and synergies. Skanska’s credit risk with regard to trade accounts receivable has a high The objectives and policy for each type of risk are described in the degree of risk diversification due to the large number of projects of varying respective sections below. sizes and types with numerous different customer categories – many of which are in the public sector – in a large number of geographical markets. Credit risk The portion of Skanska’s operations related to construction projects Credit risk describes the Group’s risk from financial assets and arises if a extends only limited credit, since projects are invoiced in advance as much as counterparty does not fulfill its contractual payment obligations to Skanska. possible. In other operations, the extension of credit is limited to customary Credit risk is divided into financial credit risk, which is risk associated with invoicing periods. interest-bearing assets and derivatives, and customer credit risk, which is The impairment loss on trade accounts receivable amounts to SEK 379 M risk relating to trade accounts receivable. (447), of which SEK 150 M (150) is for the loss provision for expected credit losses according to IFRS 9. Financial credit risk – risk in interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to in its relationships with financial counterparties when investing surplus funds and with respect to bank account balances and investments in financial assets. Credit risk in the form of counterparty risk also arises when using derivatives and is the risk that a potential gain will not be realized if the counterparty does not fulfill its part of the contract. According to the policy, Skanska must limit its exposure to financial counter­parties by using banks and financial institutions assigned a high credit rating by rating agencies Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch. The permitted exposure volume per counterparty is dependent on the counterparty’s credit rating and the maturity of the exposure. To reduce the 124 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Trade accounts receivable Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Liquidity and refinancing risk Liquidity and financing risk is defined as the risk of Skanska not being able to Outstanding receivables 20,592 20,726 meet its payment obligations due to lack of liquidity or due to difficulties in Impairment losses –379 –447 obtaining or rolling over external loans. Carrying amount 20,213 20,279 The Group uses liquidity forecasting as a means of identifying and managing the ﬂuctuations in short-term liquidity. Change in impairment losses, Surplus liquidity is, if possible, to be used primarily to repay the principal trade accounts receivable 2019 2018 on loan liabilities. January 1 447 435 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 150 Financing Skanska has several borrowing programs, both committed bank credit Adjusted amount at beginning of year 447 585 facilities and market funding programs, which provide good preparedness Impairment losses for the year 44 40 for temporary fluctuations in the Group’s short-term liquidity requirements Reversals of impairment losses –3 and ensure long-term funding. Impairment losses settled –121 –189 In 2019 Skanska’s first green bond, which was issued in 2014, matured. Exchange-rate differences 9 14 Due to the strong liquidity situation, the maturing bond was not refinanced. To cover the temporary borrowing need in the second half of the year, December 31 379 447 EUR 50 M of Skanska’s green Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) totaling EUR 200 M was used for seven months. Other short-term liquidity needs due Risk in other operating receivables including shares to seasonal variations in cash flow were covered during the year through Other financial operating receivables consist of receivables for properties short-term bank loans in SEK. divested, accrued interest income, deposits etc. The final extension option was exercised for Skanska’s syndicated credit On the closing day no operating receivables were past due and there facility totaling EUR 600 M and the new final maturity date is May 23, 2024. were no impairment losses. At the end of the year the central debt portfolio amounted to SEK 3.5 Holdings with less than 20 percent of voting power in a company are (4.3) billion. The unutilized credit facilities of just over SEK 8.8 billion (8.6) in reported as shares. Their carrying amount is SEK 44 M (41). combination with interest-bearing net receivables excluding cash and cash Other ﬁnancial operating receivables are reported by time interval with equivalents with restrictions, lease liabilities and net pension liabilities if respect to when the amounts fall due in the future. SEK 3.2 M (2.1) ensure that the Group has sufficient financial capacity. 2019 2018 Due within 30 days 14 57 Due in over 30 days but within one year 116 147 Due after one year 25 151 Total 155 355 2019 2018 Limit in Maturity Currency currency Limit in SEK Utilized Limit in SEK Utilized Market funding programs Commercial paper (CP) program, maturities 0–1 years SEK/EUR SEK 6,000 M 6,000 6,000 Medium-term note (MTN) program, maturities 1–10 years SEK/EUR SEK 8,000 M 8,000 1,001 8,000 1,852 14,000 1,001 14,000 1,852 Committed credit facilities Green syndicated bank loan 2020 SEK/EUR/USD EUR 200 M 2,089 2,051 Syndicated bank loan 2024 SEK/EUR/USD EUR 600 M 6,268 6,152 Bilateral loan agreement 2020 EUR EUR 60 M 627 627 615 615 Bilateral loan agreements 2023/2024 USD USD 200 M 1,864 1,864 1,786 1,786 Other credit facilities 455 5 428 17 11,303 2,496 11,031 2,418 At year-end 2019, the Group’s unutilized confirmed credit facilities amounted to SEK 8,807 M (8,613). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 125 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Liquidity reserve and maturity structure The objective is to have a liquidity reserve of at least SEK 4 billion available authorization to deviate within a two to four year interval. On December 31, within one week in the form of cash liquidity or unutilized confirmed credit 2019 the average maturity of the borrowing portfolio was 3.4 (3.6) years, if facilities. At year-end, cash and bank balances and unutilized confirmed unutilized credit facilities are taken into account. credit facilities amounted to SEK 18 (19) billion, of which SEK 12 (14) billion Including interest payments, the maturity structure of the Group’s finanis, or is expected to be, available within one week. cial interest-bearing liabilities, derivatives and lease liabilities are distributed The Group’s policy is for the central borrowing portfolio’s maturity strucover the next few years according to the following table. For lease liabilities ture to be distributed over time and to have a weighted average residual the future payments are in undiscounted amounts. term of three years, including unutilized committed credit facilities, with 2019 Maturity Carrying Future payment Within After 3 months After 1 year Maturity period amount amount 3 months within 1 year within 5 years After 5 years Interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities 7,721 8,085 37 4,693 3,193 162 Derivatives: Currency forward contracts Inﬂow –7,254 –7,208 –46 Outflow 50 7,292 7,245 47 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps Inﬂow –2 –2 Outflow 2 5 1 1 3 Lease liabilities 8,921 30,575 234 597 2,235 27,509 Trade accounts payable 15,854 15,825 15,825 Other operating liabilities 399 399 287 48 64 Total 32,947 54,925 16,421 5,340 5,493 27,671 2018 Maturity Carrying Future payment Within After 3 months After 1 year Maturity period amount amount 3 months within 1 year within 5 years After 5 years Interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities 11,744 12,238 70 7,381 3,152 1,635 Derivatives: Currency forward contracts Inﬂow –8,661 –8,661 Outflow 39 8,698 8,698 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps Inﬂow –4 –4 Outflow 12 16 2 10 4 Lease liabilities – – – – – – Trade accounts payable 16,262 16,262 16,262 Other operating liabilities 322 322 311 9 2 Total 28,379 28,873 16,684 7,400 3,154 1,635 The average maturity for interest-bearing liabilities excluding lease liabilities and unutilized committed credit facilities was 1.9 years (1.7). Market risk Fair value sensitivity is measured using three different scenarios: a base Market risk is the Group’s risk that the fair value of financial instruments or scenario with an interest rate increase of one percentage point across all future cash flows from financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes maturities, or an increase or decrease in the base scenario rate of one half of in market prices. The main market risks in the consolidated accounts are a percentage point over all maturities. According to this policy, the change interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. in fair value may not exceed SEK 150 M for any of these interest scenarios. As of December 31, 2019 the change in fair value estimated using the Interest rate risk scenarios above would impact net financial items in the range of SEK 45–88 Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will adversely affect M (35–56) and other comprehensive income in the range of SEK 1–2 M the Group’s financial items and cash flow (cash flow risk) or the fair value of (5–7) where hedge accounting is applied. All amounts are stated before financial assets and liabilities (fair value interest rate risk). tax. Equity would thus be affected by SEK 36–70 M (28–45) taking tax into To limit the risk, the interest-rate maturities for financial assets and account. liabilities are to match to the greatest extent possible in the respective The Group’s cash flow risk must not exceed SEK 150 M over a 12-month borrowing currencies. period in the event of an increase of one percentage point in market interest When calculating the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates, rates. Assuming the volume and fixed interest period are the same at yearall interest-bearing assets, liabilities and derivatives are included, with the end, an average increase in the market interest rate of one percentage point exception of pensions and taxes. For interest rate risk related to pensions, from the level at the end of the year would result in an estimated positive see Note 28. The analysis is based on the assumption that the position as effect on the Group’s financial items of around SEK 39 M (38) for 2019. of December 31, 2019 will remain the same in terms of the size of net debt, Both the deviation of cash flow risk and fair value interest rate risk are the ratio of fixed and variable interest rates, and the percentage of financial within the authorized limits for the Group as of December 31, 2019. instruments in foreign currencies. 126 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued The average ﬁxed interest period for all of the Group’s interest-bearing The fair value of interest rate swaps for which hedge accounting is not assets was 0.1 (0.1) years, taking derivatives into account. The interest applied totaled SEK –2 M (–4) on December 31, 2019. For these interest rate rate for these was 0.84 (0.83) percent at year-end. Of the Group’s total swaps, changes in fair value are recognized through proﬁt or loss. interest-bearing financial assets, 61 (43) percent carry fixed interest rates There were also interest rate swap contracts in partly owned joint and 39 (57) percent variable interest rates. venture companies and hedge accounting is applied for all of these. The average ﬁxed interest period for all interest-bearing liabilities, taking into account derivatives but excluding lease liabilities and pension liabilities, Foreign exchange rate risk was 0.2 (0.3) years. The interest rate for interest-bearing liabilities amounted Foreign exchange rate risk is defined as the risk of a negative impact on the to 1.89 (1.52) percent at year-end. Taking into account derivatives, the Group’s income statement and statement of financial position due to fluctuinterest rate was –0.01 (1.59) percent. Large volumes of currency swaps ations in exchange rates. This risk can be divided into transaction exposure, over the turn of the year, mainly EUR/USD, have generated a positive net i.e., net operating and financial (interest/principal payment) flows, and interest effect which has reduced the interest rate temporarily to –0.01 translation exposure related to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. percent. Of total interest-bearing financial liabilities, after taking into account derivatives, 14 (17) percent carry fixed interest rates and 86 (83) Transaction exposure percent variable interest rates. Transaction exposure arises in a local unit when the unit’s inflows and As of December 31, 2019 there were outstanding interest rate swap outflows of foreign currencies are not matched. contracts amounting to a nominal SEK 918 M (1,610). All of the contracts Although the Group has a large international presence, its operations were entered into in order to swap the Group’s borrowing from variable to are mainly of a local nature in terms of foreign exchange rate risks, because project revenue and costs are mainly denominated in the same currency. If ﬁxed interest. this is not the case, the objective is for each respective business unit to hedge Hedge accounting is applied for interest rate swaps with terms that match its exposure in contracted cash flows against its functional currency in order the hedged loan with respect to nominal amounts, reference interest rate, to minimize the effect on earnings caused by shifts in exchange rates. The date of maturity, and the payment and interest rate adjustment date. The main tool for this purpose is currency forward contracts. efficiency is evaluated when the hedging relationship is entered into and The foreign exchange rate risk for the Group may amount to a total of on an ongoing basis. Inefficiency may arise if the creditworthiness of the SEK 50 M, with risk calculated as the effect on earnings of a 5 percentage point contracting party affects fair value changes to the hedge and the hedged shift in exchange rates. As of December 31, 2019 foreign exchange rate risk loan differently. accounted for SEK 15 M (29) of transaction exposure before tax, which would As of December 31, 2019 Skanska is applying hedge accounting for three affect other comprehensive income in the amount of SEK 12 M (23) after tax. interest rate swaps in a nominal amount of SEK 418 M. These meet the Contracted net flows in currencies – as well as hedges for these – that are efficiency criteria. The fair value of these hedges amounts to SEK –0,4 M foreign to the respective Group company break down into currencies and (–8), and this is recognized in other comprehensive income. maturities as follows. On Dec 31, 2019 The Group’s contracted net foreign currency ﬂows Hedging of foreign currency flows 2022 2022 SEK M1 2020 2021 and later SEK M 2020 2021 and later PLN –2,510 PLN 1,883 414 EUR –1,318 –330 –5 EUR 1,305 280 28 CZK –178 –36 –6 CZK 185 36 6 HUF –148 HUF 140 SEK –43 SEK 46 RON –20 RON NOK –1 NOK 1 USD 69 –5 USD –59 5 GBP 196 GBP –196 Total equivalent Total equivalent value –3,953 –371 –11 value 3,305 735 34 On Dec 31, 2018 The Group’s contracted net foreign currency ﬂows Hedging of foreign currency flows 2021 2021 SEK M1 2019 2020 and later SEK M 2019 2020 and later PLN –3,768 –165 PLN 3,202 281 0 EUR –992 –102 1 EUR 1,008 84 1 CZK –331 –109 CZK 370 53 HUF –193 –44 HUF 197 51 RON –17 –1 RON GBP –2 GBP 2 USD 37 USD –26 Other currencies 3 1 Other currencies Total equivalent Total equivalent value –5,262 –421 1 value 4,753 469 1 1 Flows in PLN, CZK, HUF and RON are mainly related to property development project expenses. Flows in EUR are mainly attributable to construction operations in Sweden and Norway. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 127 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Skanska hedges foreign currency flows by matching critical terms such as Translation exposure nominal amount, currency and maturity date. A qualitative evaluation of Skanska’s policy stipulates that net investments in Commercial Property the relationship’s efficiency is made in this way. The efficiency of a hedge Development and the PPP portfolio are to be currency-hedged since the is evaluated when the hedging relationship is entered into and on an intention is to sell these assets over time. These hedges consist of forward ongoing basis. A currency hedge may become inefficient if the timing of the currency contracts and/or foreign currency loans. The positive fair value of trans­action differs from what was initially estimated and if the credit risk the forward currency contracts amounted to SEK 2 M (6) and their negative associated with the derivative counterparty is changed. fair value amounted to SEK 0 M (0). In 2019 no foreign currency loans were Skanska mainly uses hedge accounting to hedge expenses in currencies used for hedging. The fair value of foreign currency loans amounted to other than EUR in its European property development operations. The fair SEK 626 M as of December 31, 2018. value of these hedges totaled SEK 59 M (15) on December 31, 2019. The Net investments in other foreign subsidiaries are not normally hedged, hedges fulﬁll efficiency requirements, which means that unrealized gains unless the Board of Directors of Skanska AB decides otherwise. or losses are recognized in “Other comprehensive income.” As of December At year-end 2019, 0 percent (5) of net investments in foreign currency was 31, 2019 the fair value of currency hedges for which hedge accounting is not currency hedged. A change in the exchange rate where the Swedish krona applied totaled SEK –13 M (4), including the fair value of embedded derivafalls/rises by 10 percent against other currencies would have an effect of tives. Changes in fair value for these are recognized through proﬁt or loss. SEK +/– 2.3 billion (2.2) on other comprehensive income after tax and taking Information on the changes recognized in the consolidated income statehedges into account. ment and in other comprehensive income during the period can be found in the table “Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity” on page 132. Hedging of net investments outside Sweden 2019 2018 Net Hedged Net invest­ Net invest­ Net Hedged Net invest­ Net invest­ Currency investments Hedges1 portion, % ments 2 ments %2 investments Hedges1 portion, % ments 2 ments %2 CZK 2,393 2,393 7 2,292 2,292 8 DKK 834 834 3 882 882 3 EUR 4,214 4,214 13 4,602 –966 21 3,636 12 GBP 1,435 –86 6 1,349 4 1,628 –90 6 1,538 5 NOK 5,512 5,512 17 4,447 4,447 15 PLN 57 57 –516 –516 –2 USD 10,420 40 10,460 32 9,127 9,127 31 Other foreign 197 197 1 63 63 Total foreign currencies 25,062 -46 0 25,016 76 22,525 –1,056 5 21,469 73 SEK and eliminations 7,908 24 7,781 27 Total 32,924 100 29,250 100 1 Hedged amount before subtracting tax portion. 2 After subtracting hedged portion. Hedge accounting is applied in cases where hedging of net investments with a change in net investments and if the credit risk associated with the takes place outside Sweden. The hedges fulﬁll efficiency requirements, derivative counterparty is changed. which means that gains or losses on the hedges are recognized in “Other Information on the changes recognized in the consolidated income statecomprehensive income” until the hedged transaction takes place, at which ment and in other comprehensive income during the period can be found point the accumulated changes in value are transferred to the income in the table “Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement. statement, other comprehensive income and equity” on page 132. The efficiency of the hedge is evaluated on an ongoing basis to ensure See also Note 34. that the relationship meets the criteria. Inefficiency may arise in connection 128 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued The significance of financial instruments for the group’s interest rates for each respective maturity and currency. The third level financial position and income uses substantial input data not observable in the market. Financial instruments in the statement of financial position All fair value items in the tables below have been calculated at the The table below shows the carrying amount and fair value of financial second level above, except a portion of the liabilities for the contingent instruments by category, as well as a reconciliation with total assets and considerations which are measured at fair value according to level three. liabilities in the statement of financial position. See footnote 1 under the table for financial liabilities below. In calculating See also Note 21, Note 24, Note 27 and Note 30. fair value in the borrowing portfolio, Skanska takes into account current Fair value relating to hedged transaction exposure is reported under market interest rates which include the credit risk premium that Skanska is “Contract assets/contract liabilities” or under “Other operating receivables/ estimated to pay for its borrowing. liabilities.” The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments with option elements is calculated using the Black-Scholes model. As of December 31, 2019, Skanska had no Fair value instruments with option elements. There are three different levels for establishing fair value. The first level uses The fair value of financial instruments recognized at amortized cost: the official price quotation in an active market. The second level, which is cash and bank balances, shares, trade accounts receivable, other operating used when a price quotation in an active market does not exist, calculates receivables, trade accounts payable and other operating liabilities, is fair value by discounting future cash flows based on observable market considered the same as the carrying amount. At fair value At fair value in other through comprehensive At amortized Total carrying Assets Hierarchy level profit/loss income cost amount Total fair value 2019 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets1 2 128 7,710 7,838 7,873 Cash and bank balances – 8,745 8,745 8,745 128 0 16,455 16,583 16,618 Trade accounts receivable2 20,213 20,213 20,362 Other operating receivables including shares Shares3 – 44 44 44 Other operating receivables2, 4 – 155 155 155 0 0 199 199 199 Total financial instruments 128 0 36,867 36,995 37,179 2018 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets1 2 72 8,445 8,517 8,550 Cash and bank balances – 10,722 10,722 10,722 72 0 19,167 19,239 19,272 Trade accounts receivable2 20,279 20,279 20,429 Other operating receivables including shares Shares3 – 41 41 41 Other operating receivables2, 4 – 355 355 355 0 0 396 396 396 Total financial instruments 72 0 39,842 39,914 40,097 1 The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets excluding shares, totaling SEK 7,838 M (8,517), is presented in Note 21. 2 See Note 24. 3 Shares are reported in the consolidated statement of financial position among financial assets. See also Note 21. 4 I n the consolidated statement of financial position, SEK 27,213 M (27,243) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,213 M (20,279). These were reported as financial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 7,000 M (6,964) and breaks down as SEK 155 M (355) for financial instruments and SEK 6,845 M (6,609) for non-financial instruments. The amount reported as financial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as non-financial instruments include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 129 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Assets Financial instruments according to the categories in IFRS 9 36,995 39,914 Other assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12,664 12,944 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets 4,616 – Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,442 3,288 Net assets in funded pension plans 1,545 904 Tax assets 2,532 2,329 Current-asset properties 46,373 42,391 Current-asset properties rightofuse assets 3,980 – Inventories 1,128 1,256 Receivables from customers for contract work 5,898 6,661 Other operating receivables1 6,845 6,609 Total assets 126,018 116,296 1 I n the consolidated statement of financial position, SEK 27,213 M (27,243) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,213 M (20,279). These were reported as financial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 7,000 M (6,964) and breaks down as SEK 155 M (355) for financial instruments and SEK 6,845 M (6,609) for non-financial instruments. The amount reported as financial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as non-financial instruments include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. At fair value Total Total Liabilities Hierarchy level through profit/loss At amortized cost carrying amount fair value 2019 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities1 2, 3 405 7,368 7,773 7,828 405 7,368 7,773 7,828 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable – 15,854 15,854 15,854 Other operating liabilities2 – 399 399 399 0 16,253 16,253 16,253 Total financial instruments 405 23,621 24,026 24,081 2018 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities1 2, 3 391 11,404 11,795 11,825 391 11,404 11,795 11,825 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable – 16,262 16,262 16,262 Other operating liabilities2 – 322 322 322 0 16,584 16,584 16,584 Total financial instruments 391 27,988 28,379 28,409 1 The  carrying amount for financial liabilities totaling SEK 7,773 M (11,795) is reported in the statement of financial position along with financial liabilities of SEK 7,182 M (11,222) from Note 27 and contingent consideration of SEK 591 M (573) from Note 29. Contingent consideration is included in financial liabilities measured at fair value at SEK 353 M (340) and in financial liabilities measured at amortized cost at SEK 238 M (233). In 2019 SEK 0 M (263) of the contingent consideration was paid out and SEK 41 (47) accrued as interest expense, an additional SEK 15 M (9) was added as contingent consideration, and an adjustment of SEK –38 M (–58) was made. 2O  ther financial operating liabilities, totaling SEK 16,253 M (16,584), are reported in the statement of financial position together with trade accounts payable of SEK 15,854 M (16,262) and other financial instruments of SEK 399 M (322). The total item in the statement of financial position amounts to SEK 37,979 M (38,072). See Note 30. Accrued interest expense, checks issued but not cashed, liabilities for unpaid properties etc. are recognized as other ﬁnancial operating liabilities. Other non-financial operating liabilities are, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT liabilities, pension-related liabilities and other employee-related liabilities. Operating liabilities are measured at amortized cost. 130 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Equity and liabilities Financial instruments 24,026 28,379 Other liabilities Equity 33,021 29,347 Pensions 6,866 5,669 Lease liabilities 8,921 – Tax liabilities 1,609 1,326 Provisions 9,430 9,349 Contract liabilities 20,419 20,738 Other operating liabilities1 21,726 21,488 Total equity and liabilities 126,018 116,296 1 O ther financial operating liabilities, totaling SEK 16,253 M (16,584), are reported in the statement of financial position together with trade accounts payable of SEK 15,854 M (16,262) and other financial instruments of SEK 399 M (322). The total item in the statement of financial position amounts to SEK 37,979 M (38,072). See Note 30. Accrued interest expense, checks issued but not cashed, liabilities for unpaid properties etc. are recognized as other ﬁnancial operating liabilities. Other non-financial operating liabilities are, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT liabilities, pension-related liabilities and other employee-related liabilities. Operating liabilities are measured at amortized cost. 2019 2018 Financial Financial Financial Financial Disclosures concerning offsetting of financial instruments assets liabilities assets liabilities Gross amounts 36,995 24,026 39,914 28,379 Amounts offset Recognized in balance sheet 36,995 24,026 39,914 28,379 Amounts covered by netting arrangements –23 –23 –42 –42 Net amount after netting arrangements 36,972 24,003 39,872 28,337 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 131 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 6. Continued Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity Revenue and expenses from financial instruments recognized in the income statement 2019 2018 Recognized in operating income Interest expense on financial liabilities at cost Cash flow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 148 154 Total income and expenses in operating income 148 154 Recognized in financial items Interest income on assets measured at amortized cost 14 6 Interest income on cash and bank balances 138 138 Dividends 32 32 Changes in market value of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 4 13 Changes in market value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 5 Total income in financial items 188 194 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss 43 –52 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost –252 –283 Changes in market value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss –2 Net exchange rate differences –15 Expenses for borrowing programs –14 –14 Bank-related expenses and other 11 –26 Total expenses in financial items –227 –377 Net income and expenses from financial instruments recognized in the income statement 109 –29 of which interest income on financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss 152 144 of which interest expense on financial liabilities not measured at fair value through profit or loss –252 –283 Reconciliation with financial items 2019 2018 Total income from financial instruments in financial items 188 194 Total expense from financial instruments in financial items –227 –377 Net interest income on pensions –84 –103 Interest expense for lease liabilities –272 – Capitalized interest expense 307 325 Total financial items –88 39 See also Note 14. Income and expenses from ﬁnancial instruments recognized under other comprehensive income 2019 2018 Cash flow hedges recognized directly in equity –160 88 Cash flow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 150 154 Translation differences 672 1,299 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 4 –183 Total 666 1,358 of which recognized in cash flow hedge reserve –10 242 of which recognized in translation reserve 676 1,116 666 1,358 Collateral The Group has provided collateral (assets pledged) in the form of financial To a varying extent, the Group has obtained collateral for trade accounts receivables amounting to SEK 891 M (824). Also see Note 33. receivable in the form of guarantees issued by banks and insurance These assets may be utilized by customers if Skanska does not fulﬁll its companies and, in some cases, in the form of guarantees from the parent obligations according to the respective construction contract. companies of customers. 132 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 7. Business combinations Business combinations are reported in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Acquisition in Poland Combinations, see Note 1. In March 2019 an additional 60 percent of the shares in the company Business Link were acquired. Skanska now owns 100 percent of the shares. 2019 Business Link is a company that rents out office space in Poland. The acquiTwo acquisitions were made during the year, one in Finland and one in sition is included in the Commercial Property Development business stream. Poland. In connection with the acquisition a total of SEK 69 M was allocated to According to IFRS 10, Skanska has a controlling influence over the intangible assets consisting of goodwill that has been reported for Skanska. company. See Note 1. Due to a necessary restructuring process, Skanska has decided to report a Skanska will therefore consolidate the company as a subsidiary in the goodwill impairment loss. See Note 13. Restructuring was carried out to consolidated accounts. make the company better suited to the market’s needs. The fair value of the previously owned shares amounted to SEK –17 Acquisition in Finland million immediately before the acquisition date. In March 2019 an additional 53 percent of the shares in the Finnish company Reported loss due to revaluation amounted to SEK –17 million and is Sipoonranta Oy were acquired. Skanska now owns 100 percent. Sipoonranta included in the amount for impairment of goodwill. OY runs a residential development business in Sipoo, Finland. The The consolidated income statement for 2019 included the net sales of acquisition is included in the Residential Development business stream. In Business Link of SEK 73 M and a net loss of SEK –39 M. If the acquisition had connection with the acquisition SEK 26 M was allocated to intangible assets, taken place on January 1 the company’s net sales and net earnings would of which SEK 8 M in goodwill has been reported for Skanska. A goodwill have changed marginally. There were no direct acquisition expenditures in impairment loss was reported on the acquisition. See Note 13. connection with the acquisition. The fair value of the previously owned shares amounted to SEK –4 million immediately before the acquisition date. Acquisition analysis Reported loss due to revaluation amounted to SEK -4 million and is Below is information on acquired net assets and goodwill per acquisition: included in the amount for impairment of goodwill. The consolidated income statement for 2019 included the net sales of Finland Poland Total Sipoonranta OY of SEK 12 M and a net loss of SEK –13 M. If the acquisition had taken place on January 1 the company’s net sales and net earnings Consideration 0 26 26 would have changed marginally. There were no direct acquisition expendiFair value of net assets –8 –44 –52 tures in connection with the acquisition. Goodwill 8 70 78 Below is information on acquired assets and liabilities as well as surplus value, excluding goodwill, per acquisition in SEK M. Finland Poland Acquired Acquired balance Assets balance sheet Surplus value The total sheet Surplus value The total Total acquisitions Intangible assets 18 18 0 18 Property, plant and equipment 0 88 88 88 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets 0 281 281 281 Current-asset properties 90 90 0 90 Non-interest-bearing assets 4 4 34 34 38 Cash and cash equivalents 2 2 18 18 20 Total 96 18 114 421 0 421 535 Liabilities Lease liabilities 0 371 371 371 Interest-bearing liabilities 56 56 76 76 132 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 66 66 18 18 84 Total 122 0 122 465 0 465 587 Net assets –26 18 –8 –44 0 –44 –52 2018 On January 8, 2018 Skanska acquired 60 percent of the shares in the In connection with the acquisition SEK 21 M was allocated to intangible Norwegian company LA Pukk AS. According to IFRS 10, Skanska has a assets in the form of withdrawal rights. No goodwill has been reported for controlling influence over the company. See Note 1. Skanska will therefore Skanska. consolidate the company as a subsidiary in the consolidated accounts. The total investment was SEK 16 M, with a consideration of NOK 10 M The portion included in other shareholders’ holdings is recognized as a and a contingent consideration of NOK 6 M. As of December 31, 2018 the non-controlling interest. LA Pukk AS operates a stone crushing company in entire consideration of NOK 16 M had been paid. Løiten, Norway. With this acquisition Skanska will strengthen its Norwegian mining materials operations. The acquisition is included in the Construction business stream. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 133 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 7. Continued Note 9. Contract assets and contract liabilities Acquired assets and liabilities on the acquisition date Contract assets and contract liabilities are recognized according to IFRS 15 as well as surplus value in SEK M Revenue from Contracts with Customers, see Note 1. Acquired For risks in ongoing assignments, see Note 2 and the Report of the Assets balance sheet Surplus value The total Directors. Intangible assets 21 21 Property, plant and equipment 7 7 Information from the income statement Non-interest-bearing assets 1 1 Revenue recognized during the year amounts to SEK 143,705 M (136,340). Cash and cash equivalents 0 Total 8 21 29 Information from the statement of financial position 2019 2018 Liabilities Contract assets 5,898 6,661 Interest-bearing liabilities 7 7 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 1 5 6 Contract liabilities 20,419 20,738 Total 8 5 13 Net assets 0 16 16 Contract assets 2019 2018 The consolidated income statement for 2018 included net sales of SEK 26 M January 1 6,661 6,997 and net profit of SEK 2 M for LA Pukk AS. If the acquisition had occurred on Revenue accrued during the year, not yet January 1, the net sales and net profit of the business would have remained invoiced 5,287 6,964 the same. Revenue accrued during the year, invoiced Direct acquisition expenditures amounting to SEK 0.3 M, consisting during the year 47,811 35,892 of attorney and consultant expenses, have been charged to selling and Invoiced revenue –54,336 –43,466 administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. Reclassification 168 Exchange rate differences for the year 307 274 Carrying amount, December 31 5,898 6,661 Note 8. Revenue Assets arising from expenses to obtain or complete a contract with a customer are included in “Contract assets” and amount to SEK 0 M (0). Revenue is recognized according to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Depreciation amounted to SEK 0 M (0) and impairment losses, which are Customers and IFRS 16 Leases, see Note 1. For revenue according to IFRS 15, charged to the project, to SEK 0 M (0). see also Note 9. Revenue from contracts with customers amounted to SEK 172,103 M (171,201) and rental income from leases amounted to SEK 743 M (529). As for other types of revenue, dividends and interest Contract liabilities 2019 2018 income are recognized in financial items. See Note 14 . January 1 20,738 16,266 Invoiced revenue 89,660 97,151 Revenue by business stream 2019 2018 Revenue accrued during the year, Construction 159,579 157,894 invoiced during the year –73,944 –83,348 Residential Development 11,869 12,206 Revenue accrued during the year, invoiced in previous year –16,618 –10,399 Commercial Property Development 14,266 15,816 Revenue adjustment –45 263 Other Reclassification 45 Central 940 655 Exchange rate differences for the year 583 805 Eliminations, see below –13,808 –14,841 Total 172,846 171,730 Carrying amount, December 31 20,419 20,738 Reported as eliminations Future revenue for remaining performance obligations breaks down between the following years. 2019 2018 Intra-Group construction for Expected revenue recognition for remaining performance obligations Construction –253 –449 2020 2021 2022 2023 ≥2024 Total Residential Development –4,365 –5,220 Construction 101,386 47,075 27,066 7,468 2,375 185,370 Commercial Property Development –8,602 –8,479 Residential Intra-Group property divestments –52 –91 Development 7,851 3,739 1,930 13,520 Other1 –536 –602 Commercial Property Total –13,808 –14,841 Development 6,920 1,236 1,129 9,285 Total 116,157 52,050 30,125 7,468 2,375 208,175 1C onstruction includes SEK 7,223 M (8,173) in intra-Group construction for joint ventures in the PPP portfolio. Elimination does not occur since this revenue consists of invoices issued to joint ventures, which are recognized according to the equity method of accounting. Other For transactions with related parties, see Note 39. 134 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 10. Operating expenses by category Note 11. Selling and administrative expenses of expense Selling and administrative expenses are recognized as one item, see Note 1. In 2019, revenue increased by SEK 1,116 M to SEK 172,846 M (171,730). Operating income increased by SEK 1,781 M to SEK 7,428 M (5,647). Selling and administrative expenses 2019 2018 Personnel expenses for the year amounted to SEK –27,748 M (–27,746). Construction –6,702 –6,998 Other operating expenses adjusted for current-asset properties divested Residential Development –791 –675 and income in joint ventures and associated companies amounted to Commercial Property Development –960 –928 SEK –116,548 M (–118,144). Central expenses1 –1,016 –872 2019 2018 Total –9,469 –9,473 Revenue 172,846 171,730 Personnel expenses 1 –27,748 –27,476 1 Including eliminations. Depreciation/amortization –3,043 –1,780 Impairment losses –719 –677 Carrying amount of current-asset properties divested –18,255 –19,000 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 591 855 Income from property, plant and equipment sold 304 139 Other operating expenses2 –116,548 –118,144 Total expenses –165,418 –166,083 Operating income 7,428 5,647 1 Personnel expenses include salaries and other remuneration of 21,508 (21,619), social insurance contributions of SEK 5,695 M (5,294) recognized according to Note 36, as well as non-monetary remuneration such as company car benefits and shares received under Seop amounting to 545 (563). 2 O ther operating expenses includes purchased materials, machinery rentals and subcontractors. Note 12. Depreciation/amortization Depreciation and amortization are carried out in accordance with IAS Property, Plant and Equipment, IFRS 16 Leases and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, see Note 1. Depreciation and amortization are presented below by business stream. For further information about depreciation and amortization, see Note 17, Note 19 and Note 40. Commercial Depreciation/amortization by asset class and Construction Residential Property Central and business stream operations Development Development eliminations Total 2019 Intangible assets –164 –3 –1 –65 –233 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land –66 –1 –67 Plant and equipment –1,649 –1 –28 –9 –1,687 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets Property (buildings and land) –19 –19 Offices –571 –6 –49 –10 –636 Cars –176 –1 –7 –1 –185 Machinery –156 –156 Other –45 –14 –1 –60 Total –2,846 –25 –86 –86 –3,043 2018 Intangible assets –150 –1 –58 –209 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land –89 –1 –90 Plant and equipment –1,461 –1 –5 –14 –1,481 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets Property (buildings and land) – Offices – Cars – Plant and equipment – Total –1,700 –1 –6 –73 –1,780 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 135 Notes including accounting and valuation priciples Note 13. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses are recognized in accorImpairment loss/reversals of impairment losses are presented below dance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, see Note 1. Impairment losses/ by business stream. reversals of impairment losses on current-asset properties are recognized For further information on impairment losses/reversals of impairment in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories. losses, see Note 17, Note 18, Note 19, Note 22 and Note 40. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses by asset class and business stream Commercial Residential Property Central and Construction Development Development eliminations Total 2019 Recognized in operating income Intangible assets Goodwill –367 –110 –70 –547 Other intangible assets 18 –18 0 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land 1 1 Plant and equipment 6 6 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets Site leaseholds 0 Offices 10 10 Cars 0 Plant and equipment 0 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 0 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –19 –19 Residential Development –170 –170 Current-asset properties, right-of-use assets Commercial Property Development 0 Residential Development 0 Total –332 –298 –89 0 –719 2018 Recognized in operating income Intangible assets Goodwill –393 –393 Other intangible assets –45 –45 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land 3 3 Plant and equipment –60 –60 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets Site leaseholds – Offices – Cars – Plant and equipment – Investments in joint ventures and associated companies –9 –9 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –107 6 –101 Residential Development –72 –72 Current-asset properties, right-of-use assets Commercial Property Development – Residential Development – Total –495 –72 –107 –3 –677 136 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 14. Financial items Note 15. Borrowing costs 2019 2018 Borrowing costs related to investments that require a substantial period for completion are capitalized, see Note 1. Financial income In 2019 borrowing costs were capitalized at an interest rate of around 1.6 Interest income 152 144 (1.8) percent. Dividends 32 32 Change in fair value 4 11 Total accumulated Reversal of possible future credit losses 5 Capitalized interest capitalized interest during the year included in cost 188 192 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial expense Current-asset properties 307 325 418 391 Interest expense –209 –335 Total 307 325 418 391 Interest expense for lease liabilities –272 – Net interest income on pensions –84 –103 Capitalized interest expense 307 325 Net exchange rate differences –15 Other financial items –3 –40 –276 –153 Note 16. Income taxes Total –88 39 Income taxes are reported in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. See Information on how large a portion of income and expenses in financial Note 1. items comes from financial instruments is presented in Note 6. Tax expense 2019 2018 Net interest items Current taxes –683 –1,623 Financial items amounted to SEK –88 M (39). Net interest items improved Deferred tax expenses/income from change in to SEK –106 M (31). Interest income increased to SEK 152 M (144). Interest temporary differences –581 276 expense before capitalized interest decreased to SEK –481 M (–335), which is Deferred tax expenses/income from change in explained by the fact that interest expense on lease liabilities is recognized loss carryforwards –22 155 in financial items as of the beginning of 2019. Interest expense excluding Change in provision for tax risk 100 leases has decreased due to a positive effect from currency swaps mainly in USD and EUR. In 2019 Skanska capitalized interest expense of SEK 307 M Total –1,286 –1,092 (325) in its own ongoing projects. Interest income was received at an average interest rate of 1.06 percent (0.94). Interest expense, excluding interest on pension liabilities, was paid at Tax items recognized under other an average interest rate of 1.54 percent (1.82) during the year. The average comprehensive income 2019 2018 interest rate for lease liabilities was 3.32 percent. Deferred taxes attributable to cash flow Net interest on pensions, which is the net amount of interest expense hedges –10 7 for defined-benefit pension obligations calculated at the beginning of the Deferred taxes attributable to pensions 166 59 year, based on the 2019 outcome, and the return on pension plan assets, Total 156 66 increased to SEK –84 M (–103). See also Note 28. The Group had net interest items of SEK –1 M (0) that were recognized in operating income. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax rates and recognized taxes Change in fair value The Group’s recognized tax rate is 18 percent (19). The change in market value amounted to SEK 4 M (11) and the increase is The Group’s aggregated nominal tax rate has been estimated at mainly due to a positive change in the market value of interest rate swap 22 per­cent (21). contracts entered into. The average nominal tax rate in Skanska’s home markets in Europe is 20 percent (20), and in the USA, just over 27 percent (27), depending on the Other financial items distribution of income between the different states. Other ﬁnancial items amounted to SEK –3 M (–40) and mainly related to The relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax various fees for credit facilities and bank guarantees. rates of 22 percent (21) and recognized taxes of 18 percent (19) is explained in the table on page 138. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 137 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 16. Continued 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Income after financial items 7,340 5,686 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Deferred tax assets according to the statement Tax according to aggregation of nominal of financial position 1,862 1,933 tax rates, 22 percent (21) –1,615 –1,194 Deferred tax liabilities according to the Tax effect of: statement of financial position 1,045 711 Property divestments1 481 522 Net deferred tax assets (+), deferred tax liabilities (–) 817 1,222 Divestment of projects in the PPP portfolio2 15 12 Losses in Poland –315 Changed tax rate in Sweden 26 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Changed tax rate in Norway 23 Deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards 398 401 Other –167 –166 Deferred tax assets for other assets 484 403 Recognized tax expense –1,286 –1,092 Deferred tax assets for provisions for pensions 1,643 1,311 Deferred tax assets for ongoing projects 786 805 1 In a number of the countries where Skanska operates, the sale of commercial property projects via the divestment of companies is tax-free. Other deferred tax assets 1,393 1,266 2 In a number of the countries where Skanska operates, the sale of PPP projects included in the PPP portfolio via the divestment of companies is tax-free. Total before net accounting 4,704 4,186 Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax assets/liabilities –2,842 –2,253 Income taxes paid in 2019 amounted to SEK 1,076 M (490). Deferred tax assets according to the Income taxes paid can vary greatly from year to year for the countries statement of financial position 1,862 1,933 where the Group operates. Income taxes are often calculated based on different principles to those that apply to the preparation of the consolidated income statement. If the final income tax is less than the amount Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 provisionally withdrawn in previous years, income taxes paid for the year Deferred tax liabilities for non-current assets 264 260 may be substantially reduced. Deferred tax liabilities for ongoing projects 1,935 1,477 The table below shows a breakdown by country of income taxes paid: Deferred tax liabilities for other current assets 156 127 Other deferred tax liabilities 1,532 1,100 Income taxes paid Total before net accounting 3,887 2,964 2019 2018 Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax Sweden 684 Sweden 325 assets/liabilities –2,842 –2,253 Finland 183 Poland 132 Deferred tax liabilities according to the Poland 121 Finland 109 statement of financial position 1,045 711 Norway 56 Norway 97 Czech Republic 20 Czech Republic 33 Other 12 Other –206 Change in net deferred tax assets (+), liabilities (–) Total 1,076 Total 490 2019 2018 Net deferred tax assets, January 1 1,222 522 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 15 40 Tax assets and tax liabilities Adjusted net deferred tax assets, January 1 1,237 562 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Acquisitions of companies –5 Tax assets 670 396 Divestments 7 9 Tax liabilities 564 615 Recognized under other comprehensive income 156 66 Net tax assets (+), tax liabilities (–) 106 –219 Deferred tax income/expenses -603 531 Tax assets and tax liabilities refer to the difference between estimated Reclassiﬁcations 6 10 income tax for the year and preliminary tax paid, as well as income taxes Exchange-rate differences 14 49 for prior years that have not yet been paid. Net deferred tax assets, December 31 817 1,222 138 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 16. Continued Deferred tax assets other than for loss carryforwards refer to temporary difliabilities were not recognized amount to SEK 0 M (0). In Sweden and a ferences between carrying amounts for tax purposes and carrying amounts number of other countries, divestments of holdings in limited companies recognized in the statement of financial position. These differences arise, for are tax-exempt under certain circumstances. Temporary differences thus do example, when the Group’s valuation principles deviate from those applied not normally exist for the shareholdings of the Group’s companies in these locally by a Group company. These deferred tax assets are mostly expected countries. to be realized within five years. Deferred tax liabilities for future dividends from subsidiaries amount to Deferred tax assets arise, for example, when a recognized depreciation/ 0 (0) because dividends from subsidiaries in the markets where Skanska is amortization/impairment loss on assets becomes tax-deductible only currently active do not have any tax consequences. in a later period, when eliminating intra-Group profits, when there are differences with respect to provisions for defined-benefit pensions between Temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are not local rules and IAS 19, when the required provisions become tax-deductible recognized as deferred tax assets in a later period and when advance payments for ongoing projects are taxed Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 on a cash basis. Deferred tax liabilities for other assets and other deferred tax liabilities Loss carryforwards that expire within one year 191 52 refer to temporary differences between carrying amounts for tax purposes Loss carryforwards that expire in more than and carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. These differone year but within three years 577 411 ences arise, for example, when the Group’s valuation principles deviate from Loss carryforwards that expire in more than those applied locally by a Group company. For the most part, these deferred three years 2,520 3,092 tax liabilities are expected to be realized within five years. Total 3,288 3,555 For example, deferred tax liabilities arise when depreciation/amortization for tax purposes in the current period is larger than the required economic Skanska has loss carryforwards in a number of countries. In some of these depreciation/amortization and when accrued profits in ongoing projects are countries the likelihood that a loss carryforward will be able to be used is taxed only when the project is completed. difficult to assess, and therefore no deferred tax asset is reported. Temporary differences attributable to investments in Group companies, branches, associated companies and joint ventures for which deferred tax Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 139 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 17. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are reported in accordance with IAS 16 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on property, Property, Plant and Equipment, see Note 1. plant and equipment Office buildings and other buildings used in the Group’s operations are recognized as property, plant and equipment. Machinery and equipment In 2019 impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses in the net amount are recognized as a single item. of SEK 7 M (–57) were recognized. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses were recognized in Poland during the year and the comparative Property, plant and equipment by asset class year. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses were recognized as production and management costs of SEK 7 M. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Buildings and land 1,530 1,594 Impairment losses/ Property Plant and equipment 6,144 5,921 reversals of (buildings Plant and Property, plant and equipment under impairment losses and land) equipment Total construction 68 130 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 7,742 7,645 Impairment losses –1 –75 –1 –75 Reversals of impairment losses 2 3 6 15 8 18 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Total 1 3 6 –60 7 –57 by asset class and function Selling and Amount of impairCost of sales administration Total ment losses/reversals Property 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 of impairment losses (buildings Plant and based on and land) equipment Total Buildings and land –37 –59 –30 –31 –67 –90 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Plant and equipment –1,568 –1,302 –119 –179 –1,687 –1,481 Fair value less selling Total –1,605 –1,361 –149 –210 –1,754 –1,571 expenses/cost of disposals 1 3 6 –60 7 –57 Value in use Total 1 3 6 –60 7 –57 140 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 17. Continued Information about cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) Plant and equipment under construction 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated cost January 1 3,734 3,633 25,445 23,208 130 138 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –282 Adjusted amount at beginning of year 3,734 3,633 25,163 23,208 130 138 Investments 70 83 2,369 2,221 127 47 Acquisitions of companies 89 7 Divestments –291 –112 –646 –533 –186 –7 Reclassiﬁcations 3 –2 2 –38 –3 –46 Exchange rate differences for the year 98 132 498 580 –2 3,614 3,734 27,475 25,445 68 130 Accumulated depreciation according to plan January 1 –1,759 –1,632 –19,270 –17,888 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 Adjusted amount at beginning of year –1,759 –1,632 –19,270 –17,888 Divestments and disposals 85 10 200 337 Reclassiﬁcations 156 Depreciation for the year –67 –90 –1,687 –1,481 Exchange rate differences for the year –41 –47 –350 –394 –1,782 –1,759 –21,107 –19,270 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 –381 –391 –254 –194 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 Adjusted amount at beginning of year –381 –391 –254 –194 Divestments 85 14 29 2 Impairment losses for the year –1 –75 Reversals of impairment losses 2 3 6 15 Exchange rate differences for the year –7 –7 –5 –2 –302 –381 –224 –254 Carrying amount, December 31 1,530 1,594 6,144 5,921 68 130 Carrying amount, January 1 1,594 1,610 5,921 5,126 130 138 Other Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15. For information on finance leases, see Note 40. Skanska has obligations to acquire property, plant and equipment in the amount of SEK 0 M (0). Skanska did not receive any compensation from third parties for property, plant and equipment that was damaged or lost during the year or in the comparative year. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 141 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 18. Goodwill Goodwill is recognized in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, see Note 1.For key judgments, see Note 2. Goodwill amounted to SEK 4,057 M (4,324). In 2019 goodwill decreased by SEK 267 M net due to exchange rate differences, company acquisitions and impairment losses. Goodwill amounts by cash-generating units of which of which of which Change during impairment acquisitions of exchange rate Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 the year losses companies differences Construction Sweden 52 51 1 1 Norway 1,001 971 30 30 Finland 458 449 9 9 Czech Republic/Slovakia 554 537 17 17 UK 1,249 1,503 –254 –367 113 USA Building 379 363 16 16 USA Civil 34 32 2 2 Residential Development Norway 320 408 –88 –101 13 Finland 10 10 0 –9 8 1 Commercial Property Development Poland 0 0 0 –70 70 0 Total 4,057 4,324 –267 –547 78 202 Czech Norway Finland Republic UK The goodwill recoverable amount is based exclusively on value in use. The Recoverable amount, 100 100 100 100 100 amounts of goodwill together with other non-current assets, current-asset Carrying amount 45 n/a 16 n/a properties and net working capital are tested annually. Expected cash flows are based on forecasts for the development of the Carrying amount, previous year1 33 n/a 12 n/a construction investments and residential and commercial property developInterest rate, percent (WACC), ment in each market in the countries where the Group has operations. The before taxes 10 8 9 11 forecasts are based on the units’ two-year forecasts and the established Interest rate, percent (WACC), five-year business plan. Future macroeconomic development and changes after taxes 9 7 8 7 in interest rates are also important variables. The forecast period is 10 2 2 3 1 Expected growth, % years, which is the period used in models for measurement of other types of assets, for example commercial projects. When 10-year models are used it Interest rate, percent (WACC), is easier to make assumptions concerning cycles and there is less reliance on previous year (before taxes) 9 8 9 11 residual values. Interest rate, percent (WACC), The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow forecasts beyond the previous year (after taxes) 8 7 8 8 period covered by the 10-year forecasts is the normal growth rate for the Expected growth, %, previous year 2 2 3 1 industry in each respective country. Each business unit uses a unique discount factor based on weighted averCarrying amount in relation to age cost of capital (WACC). Parameters that affect the WACC are interest recoverable amount, 100 in case rates for borrowing, market risks and the ratio between borrowed funds of increase in interest rate by + 1 percentage point1 55 n/a 19 n/a and equity. The WACC interest rate is stated both before and after taxes. The following table shows how the carrying amount relates to the + 5 percentage points1 102 n/a 32 n/a recoverable amount for the respective business units for Skanska’s largest Carrying amount, previous goodwill items. The recoverable amount is expressed as 100. The tests are year, in relation to recoverable based on an assessment of anticipated development over the next 10-year amount 100 in case of increase period. in interest rate by + 1 percentage point 41 n/a 15 n/a + 5 percentage point 91 n/a 25 n/a 1 Value > 100 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount and an impairment loss needs to be recognized. For Skanska’s operations in Finland and the UK, the carrying amount was negative due to negative working capital exceeding the value of non-current assets. 142 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 18. Continued Goodwill impairment losses During the year the Group reported goodwill impairment losses of SEK 547 M (393). The impairment losses were based on a calculation of value in use and reported as selling administrative expenses in the income statement. Changed market conditions for the operations in the UK and Norway have resulted in decisions on impairment of goodwill amounting to SEK 367 M in the UK and SEK 101 M in Norway. During the year the Group also reported goodwill impairment losses arising in connection with acquisitions in Poland and Finland made in the same financial year. Note 19. Note 19 Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognized in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Information about cost, accumulated depreciation Assets. See Note 1. and accumulated impairment losses Intangible Intangible assets and useful life applied Intangible assets, assets, internally externally acquired generated1 Useful life Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 applied 2019 2018 2019 2018 Intangible assets, externally Accumulated cost generated 385 412 3–10 years January 1 1,674 1,577 812 683 Intangible assets, internally Investments 87 96 29 129 generated 480 563 3–7 years Acquisitions of companies 18 21 Total 865 975 Divestments –199 –12 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems.Externally Reclassiﬁcations –78 acquired intangible assets include acquired software in the USA, Sweden Exchange rate differences and Finland, and licenses and right-of-use assets in Sweden. Business for the year 58 70 systems are amortized over a maximum of seven years. Customer contracts 1,638 1,674 841 812 are amortized as projects progress to completion and patents are amortized Accumulated amortization over 10 years. January 1 –1,031 –953 –249 –159 Divestments 156 6 Amortization of other intangible assets by function All intangible assets are amortized as they have a limited useful life. Depreciation for the year –121 –119 –112 –90 Reclassiﬁcations 78 Amortization by function 2019 2018 Exchange rate differences for the year –34 –43 Production and management –123 –97 –1,030 –1,031 –361 –249 Selling and administration –110 –112 Accumulated impairment Total –233 –209 losses January 1 –231 –186 0 0 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on other Divestments 18 intangible assets Impairment losses for the year –18 –64 In 2019 impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses in the net amount Reversals of impairment losses 18 19 of SEK –0 M (–45) were recognized. Impairment losses in the comparative Exchange rate differences year were reported in the UK and Poland. for the year –10 –223 –231 0 0 Carrying amount, December 31 385 412 480 563 Carrying amount, January 1 412 438 563 524 1 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems. Other Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15. Direct research and development expenses amounted to SEK 233 M (275). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 143 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 20 A. Subsidiaries The Parent Company Skanska AB holds 100 percent of the shares in Skanska Financial Services AB and Skanska Kraft AB. Skanska Kraft AB in turn directly or indirectly owns the subsidiaries in the countries in which Skanska has operations. All subsidiaries are independent limited companies, partnerships or equivalent legal forms in each country. Regarding the companies’ domicile, see the Parent Company notes, Note 51. Skanska’s Corporate Structure Skanska AB Skanska Kraft AB Skanska Financial Services Construction Residential Commercial Central Development Property Development Sweden Sweden Sweden Norway Norway Norway Finland Finland Finland Poland Poland Denmark Czech Republic Czech Republic Poland and Slovakia UK Czech Republic UK Hungary USA Building Romania USA Civil UK USA According to Note 26, there are only minor interests in non-controlling interests. 144 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 20 B. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies For all joint arrangements an assessment is made of their legal form, agreements between the owning parties and other circumstances. In accordance with IFRS 11, the joint arrangement is reported as a joint venture if the owning parties only have rights to the net assets. See also Note 1. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies are reported according to the equity method of accounting. Income from joint ventures and associated companies after tax is reported on a separate line in operating income. This income consists of the Group’s share of the income in joint ventures and associated companies after tax adjusted for any impairment losses on consolidated goodwill and intra-Group profits. Income from joint ventures and associated companies is presented in the following table. 2019 2018 Share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method 521 822 Share of income in associated companies according to the equity method Divestments of joint ventures 70 42 Impairment losses in joint ventures –9 Total 591 855 The carrying amount according to the statement of financial position and the change that occurred can be seen in the following table. 2019 2018 Joint Associated Joint Associated ventures companies Total ventures companies Total January 1 3,267 21 3,288 3,291 23 3,314 New acquisitions 104 104 99 99 Divestments –165 –165 –56 –56 Reclassiﬁcations 287 287 152 152 Exchange rate differences for the year 95 1 96 160 160 The year’s reversal of provision for intra-Group proﬁt on contracting work 1 1 0 Change in fair value of derivatives –41 –41 272 272 Impairment losses for the year 0 –9 –9 The year’s change in share of income in joint ventures and associated companies after subtracting dividends received –129 1 –128 –642 –2 –644 Carrying amount, December 31 3,419 23 3,442 3,267 21 3,288 Joint ventures PPP-portfolio Joint ventures are recognized in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Public-private partnerships (PPP) are a type of public procurement where a Associates and Joint Ventures. See Note 1. project company owned by a private company has overall responsibility for The Group has holdings in joint ventures with a carrying amount of developing, ﬁnancing, building, operating and maintaining public facilities. SEK 3,419 M (3,267). The type of payment for the investments may either be based on market The PPP portfolio includes carrying amounts in joint ventures totaling risk, for example road fees, or based on accessibility, IFRIC 12, Note 1. The SEK 2,174 M (2,248). concession periods for current investments varies between 30 and 58 years and the portions owned in the current portfolio are between 32 and 50 Income from joint ventures percent. At this time the PPP portfolio has investments in Sweden, the UK The share of income in joint ventures, after tax, is recognized in operating and USA. income, because these holdings are an element of Skanska’s business. Share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method comes mainly from operations within the PPP portfolio. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 145 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 20 B. Continued Consolidated of which cash Specification of major holdings of shares and participations in joint ventures carrying amount1 flow hedges Percentage Percentage Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Company Type Country of capital of votes 2019 2018 2019 2018 Joint ventures within PPP portfolio2 Elizabeth River Crossings LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 0 0 Elizabeth River Crossings Holdco LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 1,254 1,267 Hedmarksvegen AS 4 Highway Norway 50 50 –17 I-4 Mobility Partners Holdco LLC Highway USA 50 50 0 78 –28 –6 NPH Healthcare (Holdings) Limited shares Healthcare UK 50 50 40 45 –37 –27 Swedish Hospital Partners Holding AB Healthcare Sweden 50 50 818 819 –262 –233 LaGuardia Gateway Partners LLC Airport USA 32 32 62 19 Total joint ventures in PPP portofolio 2,174 2,228 –327 –283 Consolidated of which cash Specification of major holdings of shares and participations in joint ventures carrying amount1 flow hedges Percentage Percentage Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Company Business stream Country of capital of votes 2019 2018 2019 2018 AB Sydsten Construction Sweden 50 50 148 138 Bristol LEP Ltd3 Construction UK 80 80 1 8 Essex LEP Ltd3 Construction UK 70 70 20 12 SKPR 1350 Boylston LP Commercial Property Development USA 50 50 0 224 SKPR Watermark Seaport Operating Commercial Property Company LLC Development USA 50 50 T-C/SK 400 Fairview Holding LLC Commercial Property Development USA 10 10 Tiedemannsbyen DA Residential Development Norway 50 50 2 57 Botkyrka Södra Porten Holding AB Construction Sweden 50 50 101 101 Nacka 13:79 JV AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 321 162 Sjöstadsbo AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 265 100 Järvastaden AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 18 53 BCal SCD Property LP Commercial Property Development USA 10 10 135 0 Ranheimsfjæra Utbyggindsselskap DA Residential Development Norway 50 50 60 0 Other joint ventures 174 184 Total joint ventures, Group 3,419 3,247 –327 –283 1 Consolidated carrying amounts represent the Group’s share of equity including results achieved, Group adjustments and deductions for dividends provided. 2 Carrying amounts for joint ventures in the PPP portfolio are affected by cash flow hedges. The value of these cash flow hedges amounts to –327 (–283). When joint ventures where the carrying amount is affected by cash flow hedges are sold, the income from the sale will be affected as the effect of the cash flow hedges is rebooked against income. 3 For the companies Bristol LEP Ltd and Essex LEP Ltd shareholder agreements exist between the co-owners stating, among other things, that key issues such as budgets and investments must be determined jointly. Skanska has concluded that this means Skanska does not have a controlling interest, despite having a high percentage of the capital and voting rights. 4 Holding divested in 2019. Unrealized development gain in PPP portfolio SEK bn Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Present value of cash flow from projects 4.9 4.7 Present value of remaining investments –1.1 –1.1 Net present value of projects 3.8 3.6 Carrying amount before cash flow hedging –2.5 –2.5 Unrealized development gain 1.3 1.1 Cash flow hedge 0.3 0.3 Effect in unrealized equity1 1.6 1.4 1 Tax effects not included. 146 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 20 B. Continued Details of Skanska’s joint ventures The majority of Skanska’s joint ventures are in the PPP portfolio and all are reported in accordance with IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements. Joint ventures are reported below. The amounts correspond to 100 percent of the joint venture’s income statement and statement of financial position. PPP portfolio Other joint ventures Total all joint ventures Income statement 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue 12,372 9,162 4,118 6,410 16,490 15,572 Depreciation/amortization –220 –207 –32 –62 –252 –269 Impairment losses –572 –572 Other operating expenses –11,994 –8,703 –2,367 –4,105 –14,361 –12,808 Operating income 158 252 1,719 1,671 1,877 1,923 Interest income 1,132 1,428 8 6 1,140 1,434 Interest expense –1,240 –1,413 –14 –56 –1,254 –1,469 Financial items 1 3 –658 –657 3 Income after financial items1 51 270 1,055 1,621 1,106 1,891 Taxes –47 –20 –15 –13 –62 –33 Profit for the year 4 250 1,040 1,608 1,044 1,858 Comprehensive income for the year 4 250 1,040 1,608 1,044 1,858 Statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Non-current assets 56,872 51,029 327 1,511 57,199 52,540 Current assets 475 1,047 5,527 1,796 6,002 2,843 Cash and bank balances 7,962 11,390 495 537 8,457 11,927 Total assets 65,309 63,466 6,349 3,844 71,658 67,310 Equity attributable to equity holders2 4,419 4,493 3,127 1,612 7,546 6,105 Non-controlling interests Non-current financial liabilities 55,028 52,512 397 484 55,425 52,996 Other non-current liabilities 126 345 126 345 Current financial liabilities 5,862 6,223 2,280 842 8,142 7,065 Other current liabilities 0 238 419 561 419 799 Total equity and liabilities 65,309 63,466 6,349 3,844 71,658 67,310 Skanska received the following dividend3 64 233 584 1,230 648 1,463 Reconciliation with participations in joint ventures Equity attributable to the investors in joint ventures, 100% 4,419 4,493 3,127 1,612 7,546 6,105 Less equity attributable to investors other than Skanska –2,273 –2,250 –1,875 –613 –4,148 –2,863 Skanska’s portion of equity in joint ventures, adjusted for surplus value and goodwill 2,146 2,243 1,252 999 3,398 3,242 + Losses recognized as provisions 28 14 35 28 49 – Impairment losses –9 –9 +/– Elimination of intra-Group profit –7 –15 –7 –15 Carrying amount of Skanska’s holdings 2,174 2,248 1,245 1,019 3,419 3,267 of which cash flow hedges –327 –283 0 0 –327 –283 1 The amount includes impairment losses in the consolidated accounts. 2 Equity includes subordinated loans from the owners. 3 Dividends include interest paid on the subordinated loans. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 147 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 20 B. Continued Assets pledged Information on the Group’s share of revenue, income, assets, Shares in joint ventures pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations liabilities and equity in associated companies amount to SEK 2,174 M (2,229). 2019 2018 Other Revenue 25 25 Skanska’s joint ventures are owned by Skanska and other investors. They are Proﬁt/loss –2 –2 financed in part by capital from the owning parties, but the majority of the financing is via banks or credit institutions. The assets of the respective joint Assets 26 26 ventures are used as collateral for the liabilities. According to agreements with the banks, the ability to access bank account funds from these joint Equity1 23 21 ventures is restricted. Liabilities 3 5 Skanska’s portion of the total investment obligations of partly owned 26 26 joint ventures amounts to SEK 2,848 M (2,878), of which Skanska has remaining obligations to invest SEK 1,275 M (1,291) in Infrastructure 1) Reconciliation between equity and carrying amount of holdings, in accordance with Development in the form of equity holdings and loans. The remaining the equity method of accounting. portion is expected to be financed mainly in the form of bank loans or bonds in the respective joint ventures and in the form of participations and loans from other co-owners. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Contingent liabilities for joint ventures amounted to SEK 574 M (747). Equity in associated companies 23 21 Carrying amount 23 21 Associated companies Associated companies are recognized in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, see Note 1. Other The carrying amount of associated companies is SEK 23 M (21). The associated companies have no liabilities or contingent liabilities which the Group may become responsible for paying. Nor are there any obligations for further investments. Note 20 C. Joint operations Skanska executes certain projects with a joint party without a separate legal Skanska also executes certain projects with a joint party where a separate company being formed for the purpose. These projects are then classified company is formed for the purpose. These projects are classified as joint as joint operations in accordance with IFRS 11. Joint operations without the operations provided that the other criteria in IFRS 11 are fulfilled. formation of a separate company are found mainly in the USA. Specification of significant holdings in joint operations, according to sales in current year Name of joint operation Type Country Percentage of capital Costain Skanska Balfour Beatty A14 Joint Venture Highway UK 34 Costain Skanska C405 Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Costain Skanska C412 Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Costain Skanska HS2 South EW Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Mid-Coast Transit Constructors Public transit USA 33 Regional Connector Constructors Public transit USA 63 Skanska Gates Hospital USA 89 Skanska/Walsh Airport USA 70 Skanska-Ames a Joint Venture Highway USA 60 Skanska-Granite-Lane A Joint Venture Highway/bridge USA 40 Skanska-Traylor-Shea, a Joint Venture Public transit USA 50 SMB Joint Venture Water maintenance UK 33 tRIIO Gas maintenance UK 50 There are 120 other small joint operations in the above countries, as well as in Sweden, Norway and the Czech Republic. 148 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 21. Financial assets Financial investments, financial receivables and shareholdings where ownership is less than 20 percent and the Group has no significant influence are recognized as non-current financial assets. Financial investments and financial receivables are recognized as current financial assets. See also Note 6. Non-current financial assets Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Current financial assets Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Non-current financial assets at fair value Current financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss through proﬁt or loss Derivatives 1 2 Derivatives 127 70 1 2 127 70 Non-current financial assets at fair value Current financial assets at amortized cost through other comprehensive income Restricted cash 5,316 5,356 Shares1 44 41 Receivables from joint ventures 19 74 Other interest-bearing receivables 1,437 1,617 Non-current financial assets at amortized cost 6,772 7,047 Receivables from joint ventures 15 121 Total 6,899 7,117 Restricted cash 768 585 of which interest-bearing current financial Other interest-bearing receivables 155 692 assets 6,772 7,047 938 1,398 of which non-interest-bearing current financial assets 127 70 Net assets in funded pension plans 1,545 904 Total 2,528 2,345 Total carrying amount, financial assets 9,427 9,462 of which financial assets excluding shares of which interest-bearing non-current and pensions 7,838 8,517 financial assets 2,483 2,302 of which non-interest-bearing non-current 1 In 2019, shareholdings were affected by impairment losses of SEK 1 M (0). financial assets 45 43 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 149 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 22. Current-asset properties/Project development Current-asset properties are recognized in accordance with IAS 2 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Inventories, see Note 1. Current-asset properties are valued in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories, The allocation of items in the statement of ﬁnancial position by business and are thus carried at cost or net realizable value, whichever is lower. stream is presented below. Adjustment to net realizable value via an impairment loss is recognized, as are reversals of previous impairment losses, in the income statement under Business stream Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 “Cost of sales.” Net realizable value is affected by the type and location of the property, Commercial Property Development 29,708 25,829 and by the yield requirement in the market. Residential Development 16,665 16,562 Total 46,373 42,391 Reversals of Impairment impairment For a further description of the respective business streams, see Note 4. losses losses Total Current-asset properties are divided into completed properties, proper2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ties under construction and development properties. Commercial Property Development –19 –101 0 0 –19 –101 Residential Development –170 –72 0 0 –170 –72 Total –189 –173 0 0 –189 –173 Carrying amounts Completed Properties under Development Current-asset properties construction properties properties Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Commercial Property Development 5,025 2,127 14,882 16,247 9,801 7,455 29,708 25,829 Residential Development 567 903 7,902 8,213 8,196 7,446 16,665 16,562 Total 5,592 3,030 22,784 24,460 17,997 14,901 46,373 42,391 Commercial Property Development Residential Development Total current-asset properties 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Carrying amount January 1 25,829 23,615 16,562 15,395 42,391 39,010 Acquisitions 89 89 Investments 12,890 11,401 9,310 10,449 22,200 21,850 Carrying amount sold properties –8,998 –9,620 –9,257 –9,380 –18,255 –19,000 Impairment losses –19 –101 –170 –72 –189 –173 Reversals of impairment losses The year’s provision for intra-Group profits in contracting work –327 –423 –135 –121 –462 –544 Reclassiﬁcations –265 –148 4 30 –261 –118 Exchange rate differences for the year 598 1,105 262 261 855 1,366 December 31 29,708 25,829 16,665 16,562 46,373 42,391 The carrying amount of current-asset properties is allocated between properties carried at cost and properties carried at net realizable value as shown in the following table. Cost Net realizable value Total Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Commercial Property Development 29,637 25,750 71 79 29,708 25,829 Residential Development 16,008 16,290 657 272 16,665 16,562 Total 45,645 42,040 728 351 46,373 42,391 150 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 22. Continued Note 24. Other operating receivables Difference between fair value and carrying amount Non-interest-bearing business receivables are reported as “Other operating for current-asset properties receivables.” Other operating receivables are part of the Group’s operating cycle and are recognized as current assets. Surplus Surplus value value SEK bn Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Commercial Property Development Trade accounts receivable 20,213 20,279 Completed projects 1.6 0.2 Trade and other receivables 2,982 3,500 Development properties 1.0 0.8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 4,018 3,464 Ongoing projects1 7.1 8.2 Total 27,213 27,243 9.7 9.2 Residential Development Of  which ﬁnancial instruments reported in Note 6. Undeveloped land and ongoing projects 3.2 4.0 Trade accounts receivable 20,213 20,279 Total 12.9 13.2 Other  operating receivables including accrued interest income 155 355 1 Estimated market value. Internal appraisal, with valuation on respective completion dates. 20,368 20,634 Of which non-financial instruments 6,845 6,609 Assets pledged Current-asset properties pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations amount to SEK 0 M (0), see Note 33. Other Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15. Note 25. Cash and bank balances Skanska has committed to investing SEK 1,870 M (1,807) in current-asset properties. “Cash and bank balances” consists of cash and available funds at banks and equivalent ﬁnancial institutions. Cash and bank balances amount to SEK 8,745 M (10,722). The Group had no short-term investments as of the closing day, nor on the previous year’s closing day. Note 23. Inventories Inventories are reported in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Raw materials and supplies 300 467 Products being manufactured 105 126 Finished products and merchandise 723 663 Total 1,128 1,256 There are no significant differences between the carrying amount for inventories and their fair value. No portion of inventories was adjusted due to an increase in net realizable value. No merchandise was used as collateral for loans and other obligations. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 151 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 26. Equity/earnings per share Equity is allocated between equity attributable to equity holders (share­ Equity attributable to equity holders is allocated as follows: holders) and non-controlling interests (minority interests). Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Non-controlling interests account for 1 percent of total equity. Share capital 1,260 1,260 Equity changed during the year as follows: Paid-in capital 3,027 2,782 2019 2018 Reserves 3,165 2,509 January 1 29,347 27,185 Retained earnings 25,472 22,699 of which non-controlling interests 97 121 Total 32,924 29,250 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –67 –140 Paid-in capital Adjusted opening balance 29,280 27,045 Paid-in capital in excess of quota (par) value from historical issues of new Comprehensive income for the year shares is recognized as “Paid-in capital.” The change in 2019 and 2018 was attributable to share-based payments Proﬁt for the year attributable to and amounted to SEK 245 M (254). Equity holders 6,031 4,571 Non-controlling interests 23 23 Reserves Other comprehensive income Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Items that will not be reclassified to the Translation reserve 3,551 2,875 period’s profit or loss Cash ﬂow hedge reserve –386 –366 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans1 –895 –478 Total 3,165 2,509 Tax related to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period 166 59 Reconciliation of reserves Total –729 –419 2019 2018 Items that have been or will be reclassified Translation reserve to profit or loss for the period January 1 2,875 1,759 Translation differences attributable to equity holders2 672 1,299 Translation differences for the year 672 1,299 Translation differences attributable to Less hedging on foreign exchange rate risk in non-controlling interests 3 3 operations outside Sweden 4 –183 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign December 31 3,551 2,875 operations2 4 –183 Effect of cash flow hedges3 –10 242 Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss –10 7 January 1 -366 –615 Total 659 1,368 Cash ﬂow hedges recognized in other comOther comprehensive income after tax –70 949 prehensive income Hedges for the year –160 88 Comprehensive income for the year 5,984 5,543 Transferred to the income statement 150 154 of which attributable to equity holders 5,958 5,517 Taxes attributable to hedging for the year –10 7 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 26 26 December 31 –386 –366 Total reserves 3,165 2,509 Other changes in equity not included in total comprehensive income for the year Translation reserve Dividend to shareholders –2,462 –3,373 The translation reserve consists of accumulated translation differences from Dividend to non-controlling interests –26 –27 the translation of ﬁnancial reports for foreign operations. The translation Change in Group structure 0 –23 reserve also includes exchange rate differences that have arisen when Effects of equity-settled share-based hedging net investments in foreign operations. The translation reserve was payments 245 254 reset at zero upon the transition to IFRS on January 1, 2004. Shares repurchased 0 –72 Translation differences for the year amount to SEK 672 M (1,299) and Total –2,243 –3,241 consist of positive translation differences mainly in USD For currency abbreviations, see Note 34. Equity, December 31 33,021 29,347 In 2019 the translation reserve was affected by exchange rate differences of which non-controlling interests 97 97 of SEK 4 M (–183) due to currency hedging. The Group has currency hedges against net investments mainly in EUR. The accumulated translation reserve 1 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans, SEK –895 M (–478), together with totaled SEK 3,551 M (2,875). tax, SEK 166 M (59), totaling SEK –729 M (–419), constitutes the Group’s total effect on other comprehensive income of remeasurement of pensions recognized in accordance with IAS 19 and is recognized in retained earnings. 2 Translation differences attributable to equity holders, SEK 672 M (–1,299), plus hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations, SEK 4 M (–183), totaling SEK 676 M (–1,116), constitute the change in the Group’s in translation reserve. 3 Effect on cash flow hedges, SEK –10 M (242), together with taxes SEK –10 M (7), totaling SEK –20 M (249), constitutes a change in the Group’s cash flow hedge reserve. 152 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 26. Continued Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Shares Hedge accounting is applied mainly for the PPP portfolio. Unrealized gains Information on the number of shares as well as earnings and equity per and losses on hedging instruments are recognized in the cash flow hedge share is presented in the table below. reserve. The change during the year amounts to SEK –20 (249), which is explained by changes in exchange rates where forward contracts have 2019 2018 been entered into for future transactions in foreign currencies and hedge Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 accounting is applied, as well as the fact that interest rate swaps have matured and been realized, which is offset to a certain extent by of which Series A shares 19,704,715 19,725,759 changes in market interest rates. The reserve at year-end amounted of which Series B shares 400,198,357 400,177,313 to SEK –386 M (–366). Average price, repurchased shares, SEK 137.54 137,54 of which repurchased during the year 0 435,000 Retained earnings Number of Series B treasury shares, Retained earnings include the proﬁt for the year plus undistributed Group December 31 8,394,479 10,224,634 proﬁts earned in prior years. The Parent Company’s statutory reserve is part of retained earnings, along with remeasurements of pension liabilities, Number of shares outstanding, December 31 411,508,593 409,678,438 which in accordance with IAS 19 are recognized under “Other comprehenAverage number of shares outstanding 410,720,937 409,130,770 sive income.” Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 412,585,074 411,415,278 Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans Average dilution, % 0.45 0.56 Equity was affected by remeasurement of deﬁne-beneﬁt plans in the amount of SEK –729 M (–419) after taking into account social insurance Earnings per share, SEK 14.68 11.17 contributions and taxes. Remeasurement of pension obligations amounted Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 14.62 11.11 to SEK –2,617 M (340) and is largely due to a decreased discount rate for pension plans in Norway and the UK. Remeasurement of plan assets during Equity per share, SEK 80.01 71.40 the year amounted to SEK 1 866 M (–611), which is mainly due to the actual return on shares in 2019 exceeding the expected return, see also Note 28, Pensions. Change in number of shares 2019 2018 Number on January 1 409,678,438 408,713,044 2019 2018 Number of total Series B shares repurchased 0 –435,000 Remeasurement of pension obligations –2,617 340 Number of shares transferred to employees 1,830,155 1,400,394 Difference between expected and actual Number on December 31 411,508,593 409,678,438 return on plan assets 1,866 –611 Social insurance contributions including Dilution effect special payroll tax –144 –207 In the employee ownership programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 the Taxes 166 59 number of potential ordinary shares is calculated during the measurement Total –729 –419 period based on the estimated number of shares that will be issued upon fulfillment of the established targets. After the end of the measurement IFRS 2 Share-based payment period, Skanska establishes the number of shares that may be issued, The share incentive programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 respectively provided that the requirement of continued employment is fulfilled. The are recognized as share-based payments, which are settled with an equity number of potential ordinary shares thus calculated is then reduced by the instrument in accordance with IFRS 2. This means that fair value is calculated difference between the payment Skanska is expected to receive and the on the basis of estimated fulfillment of established performance targets average share price during the period. the fair value is established after the measurement period. After the end of Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of both employee the measurement period the fair value is established. This value is allocated ownership programs is estimated at a total of around SEK 1,626 M, over the three-year vesting period. There is no reappraisal after fair value is allocated over the three-year vesting period, equivalent to 9,389,451 shares. established during the remainder of the vesting period, aside from changes The maximum dilution at the end of the vesting period is estimated at in the number of shares because the condition of continued employment 1.07 percent. during the vesting period is no longer fulfilled. In 2019 the cost of both programs amounted to SEK 245 M, excluding social insurance contributions. Share awards earned but not allocated by Dividend the end of 2019 totaled 1,864,137 shares. The dilution effect up to and After the closing day, the Board of Directors proposed a regular dividend including 2019 totaled 0.45 percent. of SEK 6.25 (6.00) per share for the 2019 financial year. The dividend for 2018 amounts to SEK 2,572 M (2,462). No dividend is paid for the Parent Capital management Company’s holding of Series B shares. The total dividend amount may Capital requirements vary between business streams. Skanska’s construcchange by the record date, depending on share repurchase transactions and tion projects are mainly based on customer funding. As a result, in its the transfer of Series B shares to participants in the long-term employee Construction business stream, the company can operate with free working ownership programs. The dividend is subject to the approval of the Annual capital (negative). The free working capital within the Construction business General Meeting on March 26, 2020. stream together with profits from the Group’s operations, as well as the possibility of increasing borrowing through credit financing, make it possible for Skanska to finance investments in its own project development. In light of the Construction business stream’s large volumes with differentiated risk in various types of assignments and customer demands for guarantees, such as performance guarantees in publicly procured projects Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 153 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 26. Continued Note 28. Pensions in the US market, the equity requirement is significant. It is also necessary Pension provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 19 Employee to take into account financing of goodwill and future investments in project Beneﬁts. See Note 1. development. A number of ﬁnancial targets have been established that are deemed Pension liability according to the statement of financial position to best reﬂect the proﬁtability of the operations and best demonstrate According to the statement of financial position, interest-bearing pension ﬁnancial scope for investment and growth. The return on equity and on liabilities amounted to SEK 6,866 M (5,669) and interest-bearing pension capital employed is a measure of how well the capital provided by the sharereceivables amounted to SEK 1,545 M (904). The net amount of interestholders and lenders is being used. The target for 2016–2020 is a return on bearing pension liabilities and interest-bearing pension receivables was the Group’s equity of at least 18 percent and a return on capital employed, SEK 5,321 M (4,765). calculated jointly for the business streams within project development, of at Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in Sweden, Norway and the least 10 percent. Skanska’s dividend policy is to pay out 40–70 percent of net UK. The pension in these plans is mainly based on final salary or average profit for the year after tax to the shareholders, provided that the company’s earnings during the term of employment. The plans include a large number overall financial situation is stable. of employees, but Skanska also has defined-contribution plans in these The Board has determined that the Group’s equity is at a reasonable level countries. Group companies in other countries have pension plans reported based on what Skanska’s financial ﬁnancial position and market circumas defined-contribution plans. stances require. Defined-benefit plans The pension plans mainly consist of retirement pensions. Each respective employer usually has an obligation to pay a lifetime pension. Benefits are based on the number of years of employment. The employee must Note 27. Financial liabilities belong to the plan for a certain number of years to earn a full retirement pension entitlement. For each year, the employee earns increased pension Financial liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities. entitlements, which are reported as pension earned during the period plus Normally, a maturity date within one year is required if a liability is to be an increase in pension obligation. treated as current. This does not apply to discounted operating liabilities, Pension plans are funded by securing pension obligations with assets in which are part of Skanska’s operating cycle and are therefore recognized as pension funds and provisions in the accounts. current liabilities regardless of their maturity date. The plan assets in Sweden and the UK are smaller than the pension For information on financial risks and the Financial Policy, see Note 6. obligations. The difference is therefore recognized as a liability in the statement of financial position. The plan assets in Norway exceed the Non-current financial liabilities Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 pension obligations. The difference is therefore recognized as a receivable. The ceiling rule which, in some cases, limits the value of these assets in Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss the accounts does not apply according to the existing pension foundation statutes, with the exception of one of the plans in Norway and one of the Derivatives 2 3 smaller plans in the UK. The carrying amount of the plan assets was reduced by SEK 4 M (18) due to the limit in the ceiling rule. Financial liabilities at amortized cost On the closing day the pension obligations amounted to SEK 27,115 M Liabilities to credit institutions 1,864 2,401 (23,275). Pension obligations during the year were affected by remeasure­ Other liabilities 699 1,508 ments. The reduced discount rate for all three countries has increased Total 2,565 3,912 the pension obligations, which was offset to a certain extent by reduced inflation in Sweden and the UK. The remeasurements are included in other of which interest-bearing non-current comprehensive income in the amount of SEK –2,617 M (340). Pension financial liabilities 2,563 3,909 obligations were also affected by the cost of vested pensions and interest of which non-interest-bearing non-current expense exceeding pensions paid. The pension obligations increased due to financial liabilities 2 3 higher exchange rates for NOK and GBP. The plan assets amounted to SEK 21,794 M (18,510). The plan assets Current financial liabilities were affected during the year by remeasurements that were made due Financial liabilities at fair value through to the actual return on equities being higher than the estimated return. proﬁt or loss The remeasurements are included in other comprehensive income in an Derivatives 50 48 amount of SEK 1,866 M (–611). The plan assets have increased due to higher exchange rates for NOK and GBP. Financial liabilities at amortized cost The return on plan assets recognized in the income statement amounted to SEK 519 M (491), while the real return amounted to SEK 2 ,385 M (–120). Construction loans, cooperative housing associations 3,430 6,242 The return was higher for pension plans in all three countries. The plan assets mainly consist of equities, interest-bearing securities, Other liabilities 1,137 1,020 mutual fund units and investments in properties and PPP projects. No assets Total 4,617 7,310 are used in Skanska’s operations. The number of directly owned shares in Skanska AB totaled 0 (0) Series B shares. There is also an insignificant of which interest-bearing non-current percentage of indirectly owned shares in Skanska AB via investments in financial liabilities 4,567 7,262 various mutual funds. of which non-interest-bearing non-current There are various types of risk inherent in the company’s definedfinancial liabilities 50 48 benefit pension plans. Pension obligations are mainly affected by the Total carrying amount for financial liabilities 7,182 11,222 relevant discount rate, wage increases, inflation and life expectancy. The risk inherent in the plan assets is mainly market risk. Overall, these risks may result in volatility in the company’s equity and in increased future 154 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 28. Continued pension expenses and higher than estimated pension disbursements. Distribution of pension obligations and average duration by Skanska monitors changes in its pension obligations on an ongoing basis country and updates the most significant assumptions every quarter and other Sweden Norway UK Total assumptions at least once a year. Pension commitments are calculated by independent actuaries. The company has prepared policy documents 2019 for the management of plan assets in the form of investment guidelines Pension obligations 11,190 4,288 11,637 27,115 regulating permitted investments and allocation frameworks for these. In Plan assets –4,848 –5,833 –11,113 –21,794 addition, the company uses external investment advisors who continually Net pension liability monitor development of the plan assets. The long duration of the pension according to the statement commitments is partly matched by long-term investments in PPP projects of financial position 6,342 –1,545 524 5,321 and property investments, and investments in long-term interest-bearing securities. 2018 The largest defined-benefit plan for Skanska in Sweden is the ITP 2 plan, in which pensions are based on final salary on retirement. ITP 2 covers Pension obligations 9,767 3,957 9,551 23,275 salaried employees born in 1978 or earlier. The pension commitments Plan assets –4,388 –4,861 –9,261 –18,510 are secured through assets in a pension fund and through insurance with Net pension liability PRI Pensionsgaranti. The pension commitment is lifelong and sensitive to according to the statement changes in the discount rate, pay increases, inflation and life span. of financial position 5,379 –904 290 4,765 A small portion of the ITP 2 plan is secured by insurance from the retirement insurance company Alecta. This is a multi-employer insurance Interest-bearing pension liability, net plan, and there is insufficient information to report these obligations as 2019 2018 a defined-benefit plan. Pensions secured by insurance from Alecta are thereNet pension liability, January 1 4,765 4,910 fore reported as deﬁned-contribution plans. Contributions paid in 2019 Pension expenses 524 632 amounted to SEK 3 M (3). At the end of 2019, the collective consolidated level of defined-benefit plans in Alecta totaled a preliminary 148 percent Beneﬁts paid by employers –237 –229 (142). The collective consolidated level consists of assets as a percentage of Funds contributed by employers –490 –533 actuarial obligations. Remeasurements1 751 271 Within Skanska Norway, the largest deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plan is Curtailments and settlements –326 the Skanska Norge Pensionskassa pension fund. This plan covered almost Exchange-rate differences 8 40 all employees of Skanska in Norway and the pension is based on final salary and number of years of employment with Skanska. The pension Net pension liability according to the statement of financial position 5,321 4,765 obligations are secured through assets in the pension fund. The Skanska Norge Pensionskassa pension fund has been closed for new members since 1 See also Note 26, which shows the tax portion and social insurance contributions recogmid-2018. The pension commitment is lifelong and sensitive to changes in nized under in comprehensive income. the discount rate, pay increases, inflation and life span. The largest of Skanska’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in the UK is the Skanska Pension Fund. The plan covers salaried employees and is Pension obligations based on average earnings over the period of employment. The pension 2019 2018 is r­ emeasured following changes in inflation (index-linked). The pension obligations are secured through assets in the pension fund. Skanska Pension January 1 23,275 23,271 Fund has been closed for vesting and new members since the end of the Pensions earned during the year 446 535 first quarter of 2018. The pension commitment is sensitive to changes in the Interest on obligations 603 594 discount rate, inflation and life span. Beneﬁts paid by employers –237 –229 Beneﬁts paid from plan assets –477 –622 Net liability related to employee benefits, Remeasurements: defined-benefit plans – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 financial assumptions 2,941 –357 Pension obligations, funded plans, present – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed value, December 31 27,115 23,275 demographic assumptions –88 –279 Plan assets, fair value, December 31 –21,794 –18,510 – Experience-based changes –236 296 Net pension liability according to the Curtailments and settlements –326 statement of financial position 5,321 4,765 Exchange-rate differences 888 392 Pension obligations, present value 27,115 23,275 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 155 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 28. Continued Pension obligations and plan assets by country Plan assets and return by country Sweden Norway UK Sweden Norway UK 2019 2019 Active members’ portion of Shares 33% 38% 31% obligations 41% 47% 4% Interest-bearing securities 34% 43% 41% Dormant pension rights 26% 14% 56% Alternative investments 33% 19% 28% Pensioners’ portion of obligations 33% 39% 40% Estimated return 2.25% 3.00% 2.75% Actual return 9.90% 12.50% 12.20% Weighted average duration 21 years 19 years 20 years 2018 2018 Shares 27% 38% 29% Active members’ portion of obligations 39% 47% 4% Interest-bearing securities 32% 42% 37% Dormant pension rights 25% 17% 57% Alternative investments 41% 20% 34% Pensioners’ portion of obligations 36% 36% 39% Estimated return 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Actual return 0.20% –1.00% –0.40% Weighted average duration 20 years 20 years 20 years Plan assets Total plan assets by asset class 2019 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 January 1 18,510 18,361 Equities and mutual funds: Estimated return on plan assets 519 491 Swedish equities and mutual funds 556 381 Funds contributed by employers 490 533 Norwegian equities and mutual funds 819 697 Funds contributed by employees 6 6 UK equities and mutual funds 1,280 967 Benefits paid –477 –622 Global mutual funds 4,612 3,692 Difference between actual return and Total equities and mutual funds 7,267 5,737 estimated return 1,866 –611 Exchange-rate differences 880 352 Interest-bearing securities: Plan assets, fair value 21,794 1,510 Swedish bonds 1,320 1,090 Norwegian bonds 1,038 881 Amounts contributed are expected to total SEK 300 M in 2020. UK bonds 3,520 2,155 Bonds in other countries 2,826 2,710 Plan assets not included in carrying amount Total interest-bearing securities 8,704 6,836 due to the limit in the ceiling rule 2019 2018 Alternative investments: January 1 18 20 Hedge funds 310 322 Change for the year –14 –2 Property investments 1,636 1,666 Plan assets not included in carrying amount 4 18 Projects in the PPP portfolio 1,800 1,909 Other 2,077 2,040 Total alternative investments 5,823 5,937 Total plan assets 21,794 18,510 Equities and mutual funds, interest-bearing securities and hedge funds were measured at current market prices. Property investments and PPP projects were measured by discounting future cash flows. 75 percent of total plan assets have a quoted price on an active market. 156 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 28. Continued Actuarial assumptions Sensitivity of plan assets to changes in estimated return Sweden Norway UK and actual return 2019 Sweden Norway UK Total1 Financial assumptions Plan assets, December 31, 2019 4,848 5,833 11,113 21,794 Discount rate, January 1 2.25% 3.00% 2.75% Return increase of 5% 250 300 550 1,100 Discount rate, December 31 1.50% 2.50% 2.00% Return decrease of 5% –250 –300 –550 –1,100 Estimated return on plan assets for the period 2.25% 3.00% 2.75% 1 1 If the actual return exceeds the estimated return by 5 percent, the gain upon remeExpected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.25% 3.25% asurement is expected to amount to SEK 1,100 M If the actual return falls below the estimated return by 5 percent, the loss upon remeasurement is expected to amount to Expected inflation, December 31 1.75% 1.50% 3.00% SEK 1,100 M. Demographic assumptions The sensitivity analyses are based on existing circumstances, assumptions Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 years 23 years and populations. Application at other levels may produce different effects of changes. Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 years 24 years 24 years Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 2018 Deﬁned-contribution plans These plans mainly cover retirement pension, disability pension and family 2018 pension. The premiums are paid regularly during the year by the respective Financial assumptions Group company to separate legal entities, for example insurance companies. Discount rate, January 1 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% The size of the premium is based on salary. The pension expenses for the Discount rate, December 31 2.25% 3.00% 2.75% period are included in the income statement. Estimated return on plan assets for the period 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Total pension expenses in the income statement for Expected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.25% 3.50% defined-benefit plans and defined-contribution plans Expected inflation, December 31 2.00% 1.50% 3.25% 2019 2018 Defined-benefit pensions vested during Demographic assumptions the year –446 –535 Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 years 23 years Less: Funds contributed by employees 6 6 Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 years 24 years 25 years Interest on obligations –603 –594 Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 2017 Estimated return on plan assets 519 491 Curtailments and settlements 326 All three countries where Skanska has defined-benefit plans have an extenPension expenses, defined-benefit plans –524 –306 sive market for high-grade long-term corporate bonds, including mortgage bonds. The discount rate is established on the basis of the market yield for these bonds on the closing day. Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans –1,849 –1,673 Social insurance contributions, defined-benefit and defined-contribution plans1 –179 –145 Sensitivity of pension obligations to changes in assumptions Total pension expenses –2,552 –2,124 Sweden Norway UK Total1 Pension obligations, 1 Refers to special payroll tax in Sweden and employer fee in Norway. December 31, 2019 11,190 4,288 11,637 27,115 Discount rate increase of 0.25% –575 –200 –575 –1,350 Allocation of pension expenses in the income statement Discount rate decrease 2019 2018 of 0.25% 575 200 575 1,350 Cost of sales –1,984 –1,639 Increase of 0.25% in expected pay increase 150 50 0 200 Selling and administrative expenses –484 –382 Reduction of 0.25% in Financial items –84 –103 expected pay increase –150 –50 0 –200 Total pension expenses –2,552 –2,124 Increase of 0.25% in expected inflation 425 150 400 975 Decrease of 0.25% in expected inflation –425 –150 –400 –975 Life expectancy increase of 1 year 475 200 425 1,100 1 Estimated change in pension obligation/pension liability if the assumption is increased or decreased for all three countries. If pension liability increases for all three countries, the Group’s equity is reduced by about 90 percent of the increase in the pension liability, after taking into account deferred tax and social insurance contributions. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 157 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 29. Provisions Provisions are reported in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Current provisions Liabilities and Contingent Assets, see Note 1. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Provisions are allocated in the statement of financial position between Non-interest-bearing 10,021 9,922 non-current liabilities and current liabilities. Provisions are both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing. Provisions that are part of the Total 10,021 9,922 operating cycle are recognized as current. Interest-bearing provisions The change in provisions broken down into reserve for legal disputes, that fall due within a year are treated as current. provisions for warranty obligations and other provisions is presented in the following table. Provision for warranty Reserve for legal disputes obligations Other provisions Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 January 1 1,327 1,377 3,236 3,300 5,359 4,454 9,922 9,131 Provisions for the year 967 555 605 1,144 1,715 2,552 3,287 4,251 Provisions utilized –696 –455 –569 –704 –1,406 –1,676 –2,671 –2,835 Unutilized amounts that were reversed, change in value –144 –140 –288 –446 –359 –353 –791 –939 Exchange-rate differences 32 19 78 59 104 116 214 194 Reclassiﬁcations 15 –29 14 –117 31 266 60 120 December 31 1,501 1,327 3,076 3,236 5,444 5,359 10,021 9,922 Specification of “Other provisions” 2019 2018 Note 30. Other operating liabilities Provisions for restructuring measures 332 579 Non-interest-bearing liabilities in business operations are recognized as Employee-related provisions 392 362 “Other operating liabilities.” Such liabilities are part of the Group’s operatEnvironmental obligations 120 106 ing cycle and are recognized as current liabilities. Provision for social insurance contributions for pensions and share-based payments 1,522 1,246 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Contingent considerations1 591 573 Trade accounts payable 15,854 16,262 Provisions for commitments in joint ventures 28 49 Other operating liabilities1 4,988 4,855 Provisions for losses 1,329 1,366 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 17,137 16,955 Provisions for completed projects 565 504 Total 37,979 38,072 Damage restoration 131 140 Of which financial instruments reported in Tax and VAT (other than corporate tax) 106 59 Note 6 Financial instruments and financial Other provisions 328 375 risk management Total 5,444 5,359 Trade accounts payable 15,854 16,262 Other operating liabilities including accrued 1 Acquisitions of current-asset properties. These are reported as financial instruments, interest expense 399 322 see Note 6. 16,253 16,584 The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is one to three years. Of which non-financial instruments 21,726 21,488 Provisions for legal disputes are provisions in the Construction business 1 “Other operating liabilities” includes SEK 285 M (307) for checks issued but not yet stream for projects that have been completed, as well as other disputes. cashed, mainly in the USA. See Note 1. Provisions for warranty obligations are for expenses that may arise during the warranty period and for rent guarantees for properties in the Commercial Property Development business stream. Such provisions in Construction are based on individual assessments of each project or average experience-based cost, expressed as a percentage of sales during a five-year period. The expenses are charged to each project on a continuous basis. Provisions for warranty obligations in other business streams are based on individual assessments of each project. The change in 2019 was mainly related to Construction. Provisions for restructuring measures mainly consist of items related to Poland, Sweden and the discontinuation of operations in Latin America. Employee-related provisions consist of items such as the cost of profitsharing, certain bonus programs and other obligations to employees. Provisions for environmental obligations include the cost of restoring gravel pits to their natural state in Swedish operations. 158 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 31. Specification of interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities per asset and liability Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2019 InterestNon-interestInterestNon-interestbearing bearing Total bearing bearing Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7,742 7,742 7,645 7,645 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets 4,616 4,616 – – Goodwill 4,057 4,057 4,324 4,324 Other intangible assets 865 865 975 975 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,442 3,442 3,288 3,288 Non-current financial assets 2,483 45 2,528 2,302 43 2,345 Deferred tax assets 1,862 1,862 1,933 1,933 Total non-current assets 2,483 22,629 25,112 2,302 18,208 20,510 Current assets Current-asset properties 46,373 46,373 42,391 42,391 Current-asset properties, right-of-use assets 3,980 3,980 – – Inventories 1,128 1,128 1,256 1,256 Current financial assets 6,772 127 6,899 7,047 70 7,117 Tax assets 670 670 396 396 Contract assets 5,898 5,898 6,661 6,661 Other operating receivables 27,213 27,213 27,243 27,243 Cash and bank balances 8,745 8,745 10,722 10,722 Total current assets 15,517 85,389 100,906 17,769 78,017 95,786 TOTAL ASSETS 18,000 108,018 126,018 20,071 96,225 116,296 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 2,563 2 2,565 3,909 3 3,912 Lease liabilities 7,843 7,843 – – Pensions 6,866 6,866 5,669 5,669 Deferred tax liabilities 1,045 1,045 711 711 Total non-current liabilities 17,272 1,047 18,319 9,578 714 10,292 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 4,567 50 4,617 7,262 48 7,310 Lease liabilities 1,078 1,078 – – Tax liabilities 564 564 615 615 Current provisions 10,021 10,021 9,922 9,922 Contract liabilities 20,419 20,419 20,738 20,738 Other operating liabilities 37,979 37,979 38,072 38,072 Total current liabilities 5,645 69,033 74,678 7,262 69,395 76,657 TOTAL LIABILITIES 22,917 70,080 92,997 16,840 70,109 86,949 Total equity 33,021 29,347 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 126,018 116,296 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities –4,917 3,231 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 159 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 32. Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Within After Within After Amounts expected to be recovered 12 months 12 months Total 12 months 12 months Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment1 1,755 5,987 7,742 1,571 6,074 7,645 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets1 1,056 3,560 4,616 – – – Goodwill 4,057 4,057 4,324 4,324 Other intangible assets1 232 633 865 209 766 975 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies2 3,442 3,442 3,288 3,288 Non-current financial assets 2,528 2,528 2,345 2,345 Deferred tax assets3 1,862 1,862 1,933 1,933 Total non-current assets 3,043 22,069 25,112 1,780 18,730 20,510 Current assets Current-asset properties 4 22,000 24,373 46,373 19,900 22,491 42,391 Current-asset properties, right-of-use assets 4 260 3,720 3,980 – – – Inventories 473 655 1,128 512 744 1,256 Current financial assets 6,899 6,899 7,065 52 7,117 Tax assets 670 670 396 396 Contract assets5 5,261 637 5,898 6,145 516 6,661 Other operating receivables5 24,458 2,755 27,213 24,271 2,972 27,243 Cash and bank balances 8,745 8,745 10,722 10,722 Total current assets 68,766 32,140 100,906 69,011 26,775 95,786 TOTAL ASSETS 71,809 54,209 126,018 70,791 45,505 116,296 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 2,565 2,565 3,912 3,912 Lease liabilities 7,843 7,843 – – – Pensions6 275 6,591 6,866 258 5,411 5,669 Deferred tax liabilities 1,045 1,045 711 711 Total non-current liabilities 275 18,044 18,319 258 10,034 10,292 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 3,404 1,213 4,617 4,527 2,783 7,310 Tax liabilities 564 564 615 615 Lease liabilities 1,078 1,078 – – – Current provisions 3,814 6,207 10,021 3,908 6,014 9,922 Contract liabilities 17,624 2,795 20,419 18,018 2,720 20,738 Other operating liabilities 36,240 1,739 37,979 36,367 1,705 38,072 Total current liabilities 62,724 11,954 74,678 63,435 13,222 76,657 TOTAL LIABILITIES 62,999 29,998 92,997 63,693 23,256 86,949 Total equity 33,021 29,347 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 126,018 116,296 1 In the case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, the expected annual depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 The breakdown cannot be estimated. 3 Deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered in their entirety after 12 months. 4 Recovery of current-asset properties within one year is based on an historical assessment from the past three years. For right-of-use assets the assessment is based on the implementation of IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. 5 Current receivables that fall due in more than 12 months’ time are part of the operating cycle and are thus recognized as current. 6 “Within 12 months” refers to expected benefit payments (payments from funded plans are not included). 160 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 33. Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets In December 2016 Skanska received a claim from the Maltese governAssets pledged ment, which in July 2018 led to commencement of arbitration, regarding Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 the Mater Dei hospital on Malta. The Government alleges defects in certain Shares and participations 2,174 2,229 concrete works performed in 1996 and errors in seismic design. Skanska is Receivables 891 824 contesting the claims on both formal and material grounds. The arbitration tribunal has in a partial award in November 2019 found that all claims under Total 3,065 3,053 the contract are barred due to a valid waiver agreement and due to prescription under law. The Maltese government has in January 2020 withdrawn its Joint ventures within the PPP portfolio are reported as pledged assets Notice of Arbitration and the future of the case is therefore uncertain. when the holdings in the project company, which may be owned directly by A Skanska subsidiary in Finland was notified that the prosecutor Skanska or owned through intermediary holding companies, are provided as requested a corporate fine in connection to a bribery investigation involving security for loans from banks or lenders other than the co-owners. a former real estate manager in another company. A Skanska Finland manager was defendant in the case. Skanska has actively cooperated with Assets pledged for liabilities the prosecutor and police since the start of the investigation. In October Shares and receivables 2019 the Helsinki District Court dismissed the case against Skanska and the Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Finland manager. The prosecutor has in January 2020 appealed the case. Own obligations The Brazilian competition authority, the Administrative Council of Other liabilities 891 824 Economic Defense, (CADE) and the Comptroller General of the Union (CGU) initiated in the end of 2015 administrative procedures against Skanska Brasil Total own obligations 891 824 Limitada in relation to certain Petrobras projects. In June 2016 CGU decided that Skanska Brazil shall be excluded from public tenders during no less than Other obligations 2,174 2,229 two years. Skanska Brazil´s appeal is still pending. CADE has yet to decide on Total 3,065 3,053 the cartel case. Other authorities in Brazil have initiated legal proceedings relating to Assets pledged for other liabilities, SEK 0.9 billion (0.8), relate predomthe same transactions. Skanska informed in April 2016 that the Brazilian inantly to financial instruments pledged as collateral to customers in Attorney General (AGU) commenced a lawsuit against seven companies conjunction with contracting work in the US. including Skanska Brazil. The charges focused on claims of inappropriate payments by a joint venture partner. Both courts of first and second instance Contingent liabilities have rejected the claim against Skanska Brazil. AGU has appealed to the Contingent liabilities are reported in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Superior Court and the appeal is pending. The Federal Audit Court (TCU) Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. See Note 1. is an authority auditing public contracts, including those of Petrobras, and Skanska Brazil has some contracts under TCU review. Three former Skanska Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Brazil employees are subject to investigations by the Brazilian federal Contingent liabilities related to joint operaprosecutor for cartel related crimes. tions within the Construction business stream 36,550 44,286 Early 2006 tax authorities in Argentina started investigating about 120 Contingent liabilities related to other companies, including Skanska S.A in Argentina, for use of fake invoices. joint operations 28 31 Skanska cooperated with the authorities and corrected its tax returns. The Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures 574 747 Appeal Court found in 2011 no evidence of wrongdoings and no convictions were made. However, the Federal Criminal court decided in October 2017 Other contingent liabilities 1,612 2,585 to once again indict a large number of individuals including nine former Total 38,764 47,649 Skanska employees. The trial is expected to begin in 2020. Skanska sold its Argentine business in 2015, but is managing the case due The Group’s contingent liabilities related to contracting work executed to an ongoing obligation to the buyer. jointly with other contractors totaled SEK 36.6 billion (44.3). This amount is the portion of the joint and several liability relating to the obligations of Contingent assets the joint operation in question that affect other participants in the joint The Group has no contingent assets of significant importance in assessing operation. This type of liability is often required by the customer. To the the position of the Group. See Note 1. extent it is deemed likely that Skanska will be subject to liability claims, the obligation is reported as a liability. Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures refer mainly to guarantees issued for joint ventures belonging to the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development business streams. In the Group’s other contingent liabilities, close to SEK 1.6 billion (2.6) related mainly to obligations attributable to residential projects. Skanska selectively forms joint operations and joint ventures when this is beneficial in view of project size and/or the type of commitments involved in the project. Combining expertise and resources with other construction companies is then a means of optimizing project planning and execution as well as managing speciﬁc project risks. External partners in these arrangements are scrutinized in accordance with the tender approval process. For more information regarding joint operations and joint ventures, see Note 20 B and Note 20 C. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 161 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 34. Foreign exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates Exchange rates are dealt with in accordance with IAS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. See Note 1. Exchange rates In 2019 the Swedish krona ﬂuctuated against currencies in countries in which the Group does business. Average exchange rate Change, % Currency Country 2019 2018 2017 2018–2019 2017–2018 CZK Czech Republic 0.412 0.400 0.366 3 9 DKK Denmark 1.418 1.377 1.296 3 6 EUR EU 10.584 10.260 9.638 3 6 GBP UK 12.071 11.597 11.002 4 5 NOK Norway 1.075 1.068 1.033 1 3 PLN Poland 2.463 2.408 2.265 2 6 USD USA 9.457 8.696 8.549 9 2 Closing day exchange rate Change, % Currency Country 2019 2018 2017 2018–2019 2017–2018 CZK Czech Republic 0.410 0.398 0.384 3 3 DKK Denmark 1.399 1.373 1.321 2 4 EUR EU 10.446 10.253 9.834 2 4 GBP UK 12.240 11.352 11.081 8 2 NOK Norway 1.059 1.027 1.000 3 3 PLN Poland 2.453 2.383 2.355 3 1 USD USA 9.329 8.941 8.204 4 9 Income statement In 2019 the average exchange rate of the SEK weakened against all of the Group’s other currencies. The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s revenue was SEK 7,615 M (4,671), equivalent to 4.4 (3.0) percent. The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s operating income was SEK 202 M (114), equivalent to 3.6 (2.5) percent. See the table below. USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total 2019 Revenue 5,943 397 848 105 172 127 23 7,615 Operating income 154 31 5 5 6 3 -2 202 Income after ﬁnancial items 131 27 4 6 6 3 -2 175 Proﬁt for the year 91 24 1 4 4 2 -1 125 USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total 2018 Revenue 1,177 905 1,143 524 478 444 4,671 Operating income 13 98 29 23 6 –59 4 114 Income after ﬁnancial items 8 93 28 26 5 –60 5 105 Proﬁt for the year 4 70 27 22 3 –68 5 63 162 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 34. Continued Consolidated statement of financial position by functional currency Consolidated total assets increased by SEK 9.7 billion, from SEK 116.3 billion to SEK 126.0 billion. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates was SEK 3.3 billion. The closing exchange rate of the Swedish krona weakened against all currencies in countries in which the Group does business. Other Hedges foreign of foreign 2019-12-31, SEK bn USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK currencies1 currency2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.2 0.3 0.5 2.1 0.5 0.1 0.1 1.9 7.7 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets 0.8 1.1 0.5 0.6 0.3 0.2 –0.1 1.2 4.6 Intangible assets 0.7 1.2 0.6 1.3 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.5 4.9 Shares and participations 1.8 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 –0.1 1.4 3.4 Interest-bearing receivables 28.2 3.5 3.5 5.1 1.4 2.0 –31.9 –2.5 9.3 Current-asset properties 9.3 0.1 14.4 3.7 2.0 1.3 1.7 0.0 13.9 46.4 Current-asset properties right-of-use assets 2.9 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.4 4.0 Non-interest-bearing receivables 17.9 3.2 3.3 3.6 1.0 0.9 0.1 0.3 6.7 37.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 6.4 8.7 Total 65.0 9.5 24.0 16.6 6.0 4.7 1.9 –31.6 0.0 29.9 126.0 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders3 12.1 1.3 4.2 5.5 2.4 0.1 0.8 –3.0 0.0 8.0 32.9 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 23.2 2.2 12.9 3.3 0.7 1.6 0.8 –28.6 0.0 8.3 22.9 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 29.7 6.0 6.9 7.8 2.8 3.0 0.3 0.0 13.6 70.1 Total 65.0 9.5 24.0 16.6 6.0 4.7 1.9 –31.6 0.0 29.9 126.0 Other Hedges foreign of foreign 2018-12-31, SEK bn USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK currencies1 currency2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.4 0.2 0.5 1.5 0.5 0.3 –0.1 2.3 7.6 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets – – – – – – – – – – Intangible assets 0.7 1.5 0.5 1.4 0.6 –0.1 0.7 5.3 Shares and participations 1.6 0.1 0.2 0.1 –0.1 1.4 3.3 Interest-bearing receivables 21.8 2.4 3.8 4.2 1.0 1.3 –23.6 –1.6 9.3 Current-asset properties 9.5 0.4 11.6 4.0 1.8 1.1 1.2 0.2 12.6 42.4 Current-asset properties right-of-use assets – Non-interest-bearing receivables 17.5 4.1 2.6 3.8 0.9 1.4 0.1 0.2 7.1 37.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 0.1 1.3 0.3 0.1 7.5 10.7 Total 54.9 8.8 20.3 15.1 5.2 4.2 1.3 –23.5 0.0 30.0 116.3 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders 3 9.1 1.6 4.6 4.5 2.3 –0.5 0.9 –1.0 7.7 29.2 Non-controlling interests – – – – 0.1 – – – – – 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 16.7 0.9 8.9 3.0 0.8 1.1 0.1 –23.9 1.0 8.2 16.8 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 29.1 6.3 6.8 7.6 2.0 3.6 0.3 0.4 14.1 70.2 Total 54.9 8.8 20.3 15.1 5.2 4.2 1.3 –23.5 0.0 30.0 116.3 1 Including elimination of intra-Group receivables and liabilities. 2 Amount refers to hedges before tax deduction. Net investments abroad are currency-hedged to a certain extent through foreign currency loans and forward currency contracts. See also Note 6. Hedging of net investments through foreign currency loans mainly in GDP amounts to SEK 86. Hedging of net investments through forward currency contracts in USD amounts to SEK 40 M. 3 The respective currencies are calculated including goodwill on consolidation and the net amount of Group surpluses after deducting deferred taxes. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 163 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 34. Continued Effect on the Group of a change in SEK against other currencies of which and change in USD against SEK SEK bn +/–10% USD +/–10% The following sensitivity analysis, based on the 2019 income statement Revenue +/– 12.9 +/– 7.4 and statement of financial position, shows the sensitivity of the Group to Operating income +/– 0.5 +/– 0.2 a unilateral 10-percent change in the SEK against all currencies, as well as Equity +/– 2.3 +/– 1.2 a unilateral 10-percent change in the USD against the SEK (+ indicates a Net receivables/net liabilities +/– 0.2 +/– 0.6 weakening of the Swedish krona, – indicates a strengthening of the Swedish krona). Other items For information on the change in the translation reserve in equity, see Note 26. Note 35. Cash flow statement Aside from the cash flow statement prepared in accordance with IAS 7 2019 2018 Statement of Cash Flows, Skanska prepares a cash flow statement based on Cash and bank balances 8,745 10,722 the operations carried out by the respective business streams. This cash flow Total 8,745 10,722 statement is called the “Consolidated operating cash flow statement.” The connection between the respective cash-ﬂow statements is explained below. Other At year-end, the Group’s unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 8,812 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow M (8,613). 2019 2018 Depreciation/amortization and impairment Information about assets and liabilities in acquired losses/reversals of impairment losses 3,762 2,457 Group companies/businesses Income from divestments of non-current 2019 2018 assets and current-asset properties –7,044 –8,479 Assets Income after ﬁnancial items from joint ventures and associated companies –521 –821 Intangible assets 18 21 Dividends from joint ventures and associated Property, plant and equipment 89 7 companies 648 1,465 Property, plant and equipment, Provision for the year, intra-Group proﬁts on right-of-use assets 281 – contracting work 460 543 Current-asset properties 90 – Pensions recognized as expenses but not related to payments 441 203 Non-interest-bearing assets 38 – Pensions paid –714 –851 Cash and cash equivalents 20 1 Cost of Seop, employee ownership programs 245 254 Total 536 29 Gain on joint ventures divested –71 –42 Liabilities Other items that have not affected cash flow from operating activities 70 18 Lease liabilities 371 – Total –2,724 –5,253 Interest-bearing liabilities 132 7 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 84 6 Taxes paid Total 587 13 Taxes paid are divided into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Total taxes paid for the Group during the year amounted to SEK –1,076 M (–490). Paid consideration –26 –16 Effect on cash and cash equivalents, Information about interest and dividends acquisitions –26 –16 2019 2018 Acquired Group companies/operations are described in Note 7. Interest income received during the year 138 134 Interest paid during the year 287 288 Connection between consolidated operating cash flow statement Dividend received during the year 680 1,497 and consolidated cash flow statement The difference between the consolidated operating cash flow statement Cash and cash equivalents and the consolidated cash flow statement in accordance with IAS 7 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash-ﬂow statement consist of cash and Statement of Cash Flows is presented below. bank balances as well as short-term investments. The definition of cash and bank balances in the statement of financial position can be found in Note 1. The consolidated cash flow statement prepared in accordance with IAS 7 The same rule that has been used in determining cash and cash equivrecognizes cash flow divided into: alents in the statement of financial position has been used in determining Cash flow from operating activities cash and cash equivalents according to the cash flow statement. Only Cash flow from investing activities amounts that can be used without restrictions are recognized as cash and Cash flow from financing activities bank balances. 164 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 35. Continued The consolidated operating cash flow statement recognizes cash flow 2019 2018 divided into: Net investments in operating activities 3,294 5,434 Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from financing activities Net investments in investing activities –1,459 –2,173 Cash flow from strategic investments 1,835 3,261 Dividend etc. Less accrual adjustments, Change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities cash ﬂow effect of investments –209 39 Total net investments 1,626 3,300 The consolidated operating cash flow statement refers to operating activities as “business operations.” Unlike the cash flow statement in accordance The consolidated operating cash flow statement recognizes net investments with IAS 7, “business operations” also includes net investments, which are divided into net investments in operations and strategic net investments as regarded as an element of business operations, together with tax payments follows. on these. Such net investments are net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible non-current assets, as well as net investments in Investments/divestments the PPP portfolio. 2019 2018 Investments of a strategic nature are recognized under cash flow from strategic investments. Operations – investments Under cash flow from financing activities, the operating cash flow Intangible assets –116 –225 statement recognizes only interest and other financial items as well as Property, plant and equipment –2,566 –2,351 taxes paid on these. Dividends are recognized separately. Loans provided Shares –108 –99 and repayment of loans are also recognized separately along with changes in interest-bearing receivables at the bottom of the operating cash flow Current-asset properties –22,173 –21,849 statement, resulting in a subtotal in that statement that shows cash flow of which Residential Development –9,308 –10,449 before changes in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. of which Commercial Property Development –12,865 –11,400 –24,963 –24,524 Cash flow for the year Operations – divestments 2019 2018 Intangible assets 25 6 Cash flow from operating activities including Property, plant and equipment 1,028 428 taxes paid according to operating cash flow 4,523 7,268 Shares 284 84 Less net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,453 2,157 Current-asset properties 25,258 27,322 Less tax payments on property, plant and of which Residential Development 11,740 12,068 equipment and intangible assets divested, 62 29 of which Commercial Property Development 13,518 15,254 Cash flow from operating activities 6,038 9,454 26,595 27,840 Cash flow from strategic investments according to operating cash flow –6 –16 Net investments in operations 1,632 3,316 Net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets –1,453 –2,157 Strategic investments Increase and decrease in interest-bearing Business combinations –6 –16 receivables 307 –165 Net strategic investments –6 –16 Taxes paid on property, plant and equipment Total net investments 1,626 3,300 and intangible assets –62 –29 Cash flow from investing activities –1,214 –2,367 The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is presented in the following table. Cash flow from financing activities according to operating cash flow statement, including change in interest-bearing receivables and Interest-bearing liabilities liabilities excluding lease liabilities –4,103 –202 2019 2018 Increase and decrease in interest-bearing liabilities –307 165 January 1 11,171 11,323 Dividend etc.1 –2,488 –3,472 Change in accounting principle 7,487 Cash flow from financing activities –6,898 –3,509 Items affecting cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –5,008 –146 Cash flow for the year –2,074 3,578 1 Of which shares repurchased –72 Acquisitions of companies 503 7 Other change in leases 1,695 Relationship between the Group’s investments in the cash flow Reclassification –70 statement and investments in the operating cash flow statement Exchange-rate differences 273 –13 Total net investments are recognized in the cash flow statement divided December 31 16,051 11,171 into operating activities and investing activities, taking into account the settlement of payments for investments and divestments. Purchases and sales of current-asset properties are recognized under operating activities, while other net investments are recognized under investing activities. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 165 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 36. Personnel Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance contributions 2019 2018 Wages, salaries and other remuneration Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members1 590 551 of which variable remuneration 239 209 Other employees 20,918 21,068 Total wages, salary and other remuneration 21,508 21,619 Social insurance contributions 5,695 5,294 of which pension expenses 2,468 2,021 1 T he amount related to Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents in all Group companies during the financial year. Of the Group’s total pension expenses, SEK 56 M (43) relates to the category “Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members.” The amount includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Average number of employees The number of employees is calculated as an average number of employees, see Note 1. of which of which of which of which 2019 men % women % 2018 men % women % Sweden 9,167 7,246 79 1,921 21 9,458 7,328 77 2,130 23 Norway 3,849 3,463 90 386 10 3,855 3,474 90 381 10 Denmark 22 13 59 9 41 17 10 59 7 41 Finland 2,156 1,805 84 351 16 2,176 1,840 85 336 15 UK 5,543 4,249 77 1,294 23 5,650 4,364 77 1,286 23 Poland 2,815 2,028 72 787 28 4,306 3,278 76 1,028 24 Czech Republic 2,385 2,000 84 385 16 2,652 2,226 84 426 16 Slovakia 791 699 88 92 12 830 732 88 98 12 USA 7,862 6,609 84 1,253 16 8,957 7,653 85 1,304 15 Other countries 166 93 56 73 44 749 663 89 86 11 Total 34,756 28,205 81 6,551 19 38,650 31,568 82 7,082 18 The number of employees at the end of the year was 33,585 (37,450). Men and women on Boards of Directors and in executive teams on the closing day Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 of which of which of which of which men, % women, % men, % women, % Number of Board members 80 18 82 18 Number of Presidents and members of executive teams of business units 74 23 77 23 Other No loans, assets pledged or contingent liabilities have been provided for the beneﬁt of any Board member or President within the Group. 166 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 37. Remuneration to senior executives and Board members The Group Leadership Team consisted of the President and CEO and the five payable in cash and/or shares and it shall be capped and related to the fixed other members of the Group Leadership Team. Of these six individuals at salary. Distribution of shares shall have a vesting period of three years and the end of 2019, two were women and four were men. be part of a long-term incentive program. The variable remuneration must Senior executives are deﬁned as the members of the Group Leadership be based on results in relation to established targets and be designed to Team. increase the alignment between the shareholders and senior executives of the company. The terms for variable remuneration should be structured so Preparation and decision-making processes that the Board, if exceptional economic conditions prevail, has the possibility Principles for senior executive remuneration are established annually by to limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration, if such a payment is the Annual General Meeting. Salary and other beneﬁts for the President considered unreasonable and incompatible with the company’s responsibiland CEO are established by the Board of Directors of Skanska AB following ity in general to the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. For recommendations from the Board’s Compensation Committee. The annual bonus, there should be a possibility to limit or refrain from paying Committee sets salaries, variable remuneration and other beneﬁts for variable remuneration if the Board considers that this is appropriate for the Group Leadership Team. The President and CEO regularly informs other reasons. the Compensation Committee about the salaries, variable remuneration To the extent that a Board member performs work for the company, and other beneﬁts of the heads of group functions and business units. In besides the Board membership, consultant fee and other remuneration may 2019 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck, Chairman be granted for such work. of the Board, and Board members Pär Boman and Jayne McGivern. The In the event of employment termination by the company, the normal Compensation Committee met six times during the year. The Annual period of notice is six months combined with severance pay corresponding General Meeting approves the directors’ fees and remuneration for to a maximum of 18 months fixed salary or, alternatively, a period of notice committee work for members of the Board, following recommendations of maximum of 12 months combined with severance pay corresponding to a from the Nomination Committee. maximum of 12 months fixed salary. Pension benefits should be defined-contribution schemes and should Senior executive remuneration entitle the senior executive to the right to receive a pension from the age Principles for remuneration of 65. However, a pension at age of earliest 60 years may be granted in The 2019 Annual General Meeting approved the following principles for individual cases. For defined benefit plans, years of service required for fully salary and other remuneration to senior executives: earned benefits shall normally corespond to the years of service required Senior executives include the CEO and other members of the Group for general pension plans in the same jurisdiction. Variable salary shall not Leadership Team. be included in pensionable salary, except when it follows from rules under Remuneration to the senior executives in Skanska AB (publ) shall consist a general pension plan (like the Swedish ITP plan). of fixed salary, variable remuneration, if any, other customary benefits, The Board may deviate from these principles for salary and other and pension. The combined remuneration for each senior executive must remuneration to senior executives, if special reasons for doing so exist in any be market-related and competitive in the labor market in which the senior individual case. executive is placed, and distinguished performance should be reflected in Matters related to salary and other remuneration to the CEO are the total remuneration. prepared by the Compensation Committee and resolved on by the Board. Fixed salary and variable remuneration shall be related to the senior Matters related to salary and other remuneration to other senior executives executive’s responsibility and authority. The variable remuneration shall be are decided by the Compensation Committee. Financial targets for variable salary components 2019 Measure of earnings Starting point Outperform Outcome Percentage fulfilled2 Group Income after ﬁnancial items, SEK bn 1 4.5 6.6 7.8 100% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 2.9 4.3 3.8 66% Operating margin, % 2.1 3.0 2.6 64% Residential Development Operating income, SEK bn 0.9 1.3 1.2 85% Return on capital employed, % 7 10 11 87% Units sold, thousands 3.2 4.5 3.9 40% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.4 2.3 3.3 99% Return on capital employed, %3 6 8 10 100% Leasing, thousands of sq m3 156 371 388 95% Leasing cluster, thousands of sq m3 156 371 388 100% 1 T he income excludes eliminations at the Group level. The outperform target at the Group level constitutes 95 percent of the business stream’s total outperform target and the starting point target constitutes 105 percent of the business stream’s total starting point target. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on the outcomes for the respective business units, which are weighed together. As the amount fulﬁlled per business unit cannot be less than 0 percent, negative earnings from the business units may affect the comparison with the business stream’s total earnings. 3E ncompasses the Commercial Property Development business units in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 167 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 37. Continued Targets and performance relating to variable remuneration annual salary, based on financial targets with a target fulfillment of 100 Variable remuneration may consist of two parts: cash-based annual variable (29) percent. This calculation is preliminary insofar as any deductions as a remuneration and the share incentive program, which provides compensaconsequence of non-financial targets have not yet been taken into account. tion in the form of shares. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the first quarter of 2020 after The long-term share programs are described in the sections under the reviewing operational performance. headings “Long-term share programs” and “Previous long-term share programs” in this note. The table on page 167 presents, by business stream, Pension beneﬁts the starting point and outperform targets that were decided by the Board The retirement age for members of the Group Leadership Team is 65 years. for the 2019 cash-based variable remuneration. Employees in Sweden are entitled to pension benefits according to the ITP In addition to the ﬁnancial performance targets, the members of the occupational pension plan. The ITP plan encompasses the defined-contriGroup Leadership Team have non-ﬁnancial targets that may reduce the bution ITP 1 pension system and the deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 pension system. outcome measured only according to the ﬁnancial targets. The non-ﬁnanEmployees outside Sweden are covered by local pension plans. The ITP cial targets mainly relate to strategic initiatives linked to the business plan. 1 contribution is 4.5 percent of gross cash salary up to 7.5 base amounts The outcome is reduced in cases where the operations for which the person of income per year and 30 percent of gross cash salary above that. The is responsible have not reached the non-ﬁnancial targets. deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 plan guarantees a lifetime pension from age 55. The Annual variable remuneration for the Group Leadership Team, excluding pension amount is a certain percentage of the employee’s ﬁnal salary, the President and CEO, is mainly tied to the Group targets and/or to the and the service period to qualify for a full pension is 30 years. The pension business units they are directly responsible for. The non-ﬁnancial targets are entitlement is 10 percent for salary components up to 7.5 base amounts, connected to the business units and/or operations for which the members 65 percent for components between 7.5 and 20 base amounts and 32.5 of the Group Leadership Team are responsible. The preliminary outcome for percent for salary components between 20 and 30 base amounts. For salary the other senior executives averaged 78 percent (34) of fixed annual salary. components exceeding 30 base amounts, this ITP 2 group is covered by a This calculation is preliminary insofar as any deductions as a consequence of supplementary pension entitlement, with a premium of 20 percent. non-financial targets have not yet been taken into account. The Board will determine the final outcome of variable remuneration in the first quarter of Severance pay 2020 after reviewing operational performance. The notice period for the members of the Group Leadership Team, in the case of termination by the company, is six months with retention of ﬁxed Targets and performance related to variable remuneration for salary and beneﬁts, excluding variable remuneration. After the notice the President and CEO period, severance pay is disbursed for 12 to 18 months. When payments are The ﬁnancial targets for the President and CEO were the same as the Group disbursed after the notice period other income must normally be subtracted targets according to the table on the previous page. The Board has the from the amount payable. option of reducing the ﬁnal outcome of variable remuneration measured A mutual notice period of 12 months applies between Skanska and the solely on the ﬁnancial targets by a maximum of 50 percent, based on the President and CEO, with retention of fixed salary and benefits, excluding outcome of the Group’s non-ﬁnancial targets. The preliminary outcome variable remuneration. After the notice period, severance pay is disbursed for the President and CEO’s variable remuneration (i.e., excluding the for 12 months. When payments are disbursed after the notice period other employee ownership program) shows an outcome of 75 percent (22) of fixed income must normally be subtracted from the amount payable. . Board of Directors Compensation Project Review Director’s fee Audit Committee Committee Committee Total SEK thousand 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Chairman of the Board Hans Biörck 2,100 2,040 165 158 110 110 210 205 2,585 2,513 Other Board members Nina Linander – 680 – 158 – 0 – 205 – 1,043 Fredrik Lundberg 700 680 0 0 0 0 210 205 910 885 Charlotte Strömberg 700 680 230 220 0 0 210 205 1,140 1,105 Pär Boman 700 680 165 158 105 105 210 205 1,180 1,148 Jayne McGivern 700 680 0 0 105 105 210 205 1,015 990 Catherine Marcus 700 680 0 0 0 0 210 205 910 885 Jan Gurander 700 – 165 – 0 – 210 – 1,075 – Board of Directors 6,300 6,120 725 693 320 320 1,470 1,435 8,815 8,568 168 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 37. Continued Group Leadership Team Allocated value of Variable employee ownerOther remuneration Annual salary remuneration1 ship programs2 and benefits Pension expense Total SEK thousand 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 President and CEO Anders Danielsson 11,550 10,500 8,663 2,318 7,990 0 101 375 4,043 3,675 32,347 16,868 Other members of the Group Leadership Team (5 individuals) 28,474 26,419 22,260 8,990 18,939 583 1,247 1,126 7,277 5,899 78,197 43,017 Total 40,024 36,919 30,923 11,308 26,929 583 1,348 1,501 11,320 9,574 110,543 59,885 1 Variable remuneration relating to the 2019 financial year is preliminary and will be finally determined and disbursed after the outcome is established in the first quarter of 2020. The variable remuneration agreements include a general clause stipulating that the Board and the Compensation Committee are entitled to wholly or partly reduce variable remuneration. The amounts included under the heading “Variable remuneration” for 2018 in the table above refer to actual disbursements for the 2018 ﬁnancial year. 2 T he value stated refers to a preliminary allotment of matching shares and performance shares for 2019’s invested shares, at the share price on December 30, 2019 (SEK 212). The senior executives will receive an estimated 5,300 (4,134) matching shares and 121,903 (0) performance shares. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the first quarter of 2020 after reviewing operational performance. In order to receive matching shares and performance shares, an additional three years of service are required. The total cost has not yet been expensed as the cost is allocated over three years in accordance with IFRS 2. See the section under the heading “Long-term share programs.” The President and CEO as well as some other members of the Group Leadership Team received remuneration related to the 2016 financial year. After a three-year lock-up period as part of the previous employee ownership program Seop 3, the President and CEO received 13,657 (12,683) shares, equivalent to SEK 2,891,000 (1,788,000), in 2019 for shares allocated during the 2016 financial year. In 2019, as part of Seop 3, the other senior executives, after a three-year lock-up period, received 29,700 (24,338) Series B Skanska shares, equivalent to SEK 6,288,000 (3,432,000), for shares allotted during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. Remuneration and benefits recognized as expenses in 2019 to SEK 333,000 (0). An estimated 36,169 (0) performance shares may be Directors’ fees allocated, at a value of SEK 7,657,000 (0), since the outperform targets were The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved that fees would be paid to the preliminarily 100 percent (0) fulfilled. The amount stated is based on the Board members elected by the Meeting totaling SEK 8,815,000 (8,568,000), share price on December 30, 2019 (SEK 212). The allocation of matching and including a special allowance for committee work. See the table on the performance shares will be finally determined in the first quarter of 2020 previous page. after reviewing operational performance. Annual pension provisions will total 35 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. Chairman of the Board The cost in 2019 amounted to SEK 4,043,000 (3,675,000). During the ﬁnancial year the Chairman of the Board, Hans Biörck, received a director’s fee totaling SEK 2,585,000 (2,513,000), of which SEK 485,000 Other members of the Group Leadership Team (473,000) was for committee work. At the end of 2019 the other members of the Group Leadership Team consisted of five individuals. Board members The members of the Group Leadership Team received a ﬁxed salary and Members of the Board did not receive any remuneration for their role as variable remuneration based on the Group’s earnings and/or the earnings Board members beyond their regular directors’ fees and remuneration for of the business units for which they are directly responsible. In addition, committee work. the senior executives were covered by the Group’s ongoing employee For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are ownership program, Seop 4, involving an allocation of matching shares made concerning salaries and remuneration or pensions as they do not and performance shares. See the section under the heading “Long-term receive these in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who share programs” in this note. A total of 14,910 (16,535) Series B Skanska were employees of the company before the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, shares were purchased by the senior executives under the Seop 4 prodisclosures are made concerning pension obligations in their former role as gram, which resulted in 3,728 (4,134) matching shares, equivalent to employees. SEK 789,000 (583,000). An estimated 85,735 (0) performance shares may be allocated, at a value of SEK 18,150,000 (0), since the outperform targets President and CEO were preliminarily 100 percent (0) fulfilled. The amount stated is based on In 2019, the President and CEO Anders Danielsson received a fixed salary of the share price on December 30, 2019 (SEK 212). Variable remuneration SEK 11,550,000 (10,500,000) plus an estimated variable salary component and the outcome of performance shares for 2019 are preliminary. The final of SEK 8,663,000 (2,318,000) based on a preliminary figure of financial outcome will be established in the first quarter of 2020 after a review of targets being 100 percent (29) fulfilled. Variable remuneration is maxioperational performance. Disbursement of the cash-based variable remumized at 75 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. The final outcome of variable neration normally occurs in May of the year following the performance year. remuneration for the President and CEO will be established by the Board All above-mentioned remuneration and beneﬁts were charged to in the first quarter of 2020 following a review of operational performance. Skanska AB, except for SEK 28,279,000 (10,948,000) to other senior The preliminary outcome was equivalent to 75 percent (22) of ﬁxed annual executives, which was charged to other Group companies. salary. Disbursement normally occurs in May of the year following the performance year. Pension obligations to current and former senior executives The President and CEO is also participating in the Group’s ongoing In 2019, outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and CEOs, including employee ownership program, Seop 4, which involves an allocation of former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 163,517,000 (158,067,000). matching shares and performance shares. See the section under the heading Outstanding obligations to other current and former senior executives “Long-term share programs” in this note. Within the framework of Seop 4, amounted to SEK 114,367,000 (107,411,000). Anders Danielsson acquired 6,290 (6,486) Series B Skanska shares, which is expected to result in the allocation of 1,573 matching shares equivalent Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 169 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 37. Continued Long-term share programs The table below shows Seop 4 target fulﬁllment in 2019 for each business Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, stream. Seop 4 (2017–2019) In the Skanska Group, a total of 37 percent (34) of permanent employees In 2016 the Annual General Meeting approved the introduction of the participated in Seop 4 in 2019. Seop 4 long-term employee ownership program for employees of the Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 4 for investGroup. This is essentially an extension of the earlier Seop 3 employee ments in 2019 is preliminarily estimated at around SEK 791 M, of which ownership program that ran from 2014 to 2016. The terms and conditions SEK 174 M was expensed in 2017–2018 while this year’s cost is around are the same in all material respects as those of the earlier Seop 3 program. SEK 208 M. The remaining cost of Seop 4 up to and including 2022 is The program is aimed at about 40,000 permanent employees of the estimated at about SEK 409 M. Skanska Group, of whom some 2,000 are key employees and about 300 are The dilution effect through 2019 of Seop 4 for the 2019 program is executives, including the President and CEO and other senior executives. estimated at 1,864,137 shares or 0.45 percent of the number of Series B The program offers employees, key employees and executives the opporSkanska shares outstanding. Maximum dilution for the program in 2019 is tunity – provided they have made their own investment in Series B Skanska expected to be 4,462,294 shares or 1.07 percent. shares during a given financial year – to receive Series B Skanska shares from The number of issued shares will not change; instead the matching and Skanska free of charge. For each four Series B investment shares purchased, performance shares will be allocated from repurchased shares. the employee will be entitled, after a three-year lock-up period, to receive one Series B Skanska share free of charge (“matching share”). In addition, Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 5 after the lock-up period, the employee will be able to receive additional (2020–2022) Series B Skanska shares free of charge contingent upon the fulfillment of In 2019 the Annual General Meeting approved the introduction of the certain earnings-based performance criteria during the purchase period Seop 5 long-term employee ownership program for employees of the (“performance shares”). Group. This is essentially an extension of the earlier Seop 4 employee The purchase period covers the years 2017–2019 and the lock-up period ownership program that ran from 2017 to 2019. The terms and conditions runs for three years from the month in which the investment shares are are the same in all material respects as those of the earlier Seop 4 program. acquired. For each four investment shares purchased, employees may, in Under the terms of Seop 5, however, executives cannot receive any addition to one matching share, receive a maximum of three performance matching shares. The maximum number of performance shares that may shares. For each four investment shares, key employees may, in addition be allocated to the participants in each subcategory of executives has been to one matching share, receive a maximum of seven performance shares. increased to 16, 20 and 24 respectively for each four investment shares For each four investment shares, executives (split into three subcategories) acquired. may, in addition to one matching share, receive a maximum of 15, 19 or 23 performance shares. The maximum number of investment shares that Previous long-term share programs each employee participating in the program may acquire, through monthly Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 3 saving, depends on the employee’s salary and whether the employee is par(2014–2016) ticipating in the program as an employee, a key employee or an executive. Shares for the previous Skanska employee ownership program, which ran To qualify to receive matching and performance shares, a participant from 2014 to 2016, were distributed in 2019. These were shares that were must be employed within the Group throughout the lock-up period and earned in 2016, which, after a three-year lock-up period, were distributed to must have retained his or her investment shares during this lock-up period. those who had been employed by the Group throughout the lock-up period The program has two cost ceilings. The ﬁrst ceiling depends on the extent and who had retained their investment shares during this lock-up period. to which ﬁnancial Seop-speciﬁc outperform targets are met, which limits Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 3 is estimated to Skanska’s total cost per year to SEK 208–655 M, related to fulﬁllment of the amount to SEK 835 M, of which SEK 797 M was expensed in 2014–2018, ﬁnancial Seop-speciﬁc outperform targets at the Group level. The ﬁrst cost while the cost for 2019 amounts to around SEK 38 M. ceiling is adjusted in accordance with the Consumer Price Index, with 2016 as the base year for Seop 4. The other cost ceiling is that Skanska’s total cost per Local incentive programs year may not exceed 15 percent of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) Salaries and other remuneration are established taking into account at the Group level. The actual cost ceiling will be the lower of these two cost conditions prevailing in the rest of the construction industry and customary ceilings. The cost for the outcomes of stock purchase programs from previous practices in each local market. The Skanska Group applies a remuneration years is included in annually established performance targets. In addition to model for the relevant executives and managers that consists of a ﬁxed the cost ceilings, the number of shares that may be repurchased as part of the annual salary plus variable remuneration based on ﬁnancial targets reached. three-year program is also limited to 13,500,000 shares. Financial targets for the employee ownership program, Seop 4, 20191 Percentage Measure of earnings Starting point Outperform Outcome fulfilled 2 Group Earnings per share, SEK 3 13.0 13.7 15.5 100% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 3.7 4.5 3.8 57% Residential Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.1 1.4 1.2 70% Return on capital employed, %4 7 11 12 100% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.9 2.5 3.3 99% Leasing, thousands of sq m5 156 371 388 95% 1 For further information, see the table “Financial targets for variable salary components” in Note 37 on page 167. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on the outcomes for the respective business units, which are weighed together. As the amount fulﬁlled per business unit cannot be less than 0 percent, negative earnings from the business units may affect the comparison with the business stream’s total earnings. 3 Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders, divided by the average number of outstanding shares during the year. 4 Encompasses the Residential Development business units in Central Europe and BoKlok. 5 Encompasses the Commercial Property Development business units in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. 170 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 38. Fees and other remuneration to Note 40. Leases auditors Leases are managed in accordance with IFRS 16 Leases, see Note 1. When Skanska is a lessee, the lease assets are recognized as a right-of-use EY 2019 2018 asset in the statement of ﬁnancial position, while the future obligation to Audit assignments 54 50 the lessor is recognized as a liability in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 2 3 As a lessee Skanska has both both finance and operating leases. Tax advisory services 3 2 Skanska is a lessee of a finance lease which is due to a sublease for external office space. Other services 1 3 As an operating lessor, Skanska leases properties to tenants mainly within Total 60 58 its Commercial Property Development business stream. For the Parent Company, fees for audit assignments during the year A. Skanska as a lessee amounted to SEK 6 M and audit work in addition to the audit assignment Right-of-use assets by asset class amounted to SEK 1 M. “Audit assignments” refers to the statutory audit of the annual accounts Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 and accounting documents as well as of the administration of the company Buildings and land 120 – by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO, and audit and other Offices 3,596 – review work conducted according to agreements or contracts. This includes Cars 405 – other tasks that are incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as Machinery 386 – advisory services or other assistance required as a result of observations made during such review work or the completion of such other tasks. Other 109 – “Other services” refers to advisory services relating to accounting issues, Total property, plant and equipment, advisory services concerning the divestment and acquisition of businesses right-of-use assets1 4,616 – and advisory services relating to processes and internal control. Right-of-use assets, ground leases 3,980 – Total right-of-use current assets1 3,980 – Note 39. Related party disclosures 1 Short-term leases and leasing of assets of low value are not included as these are expensed directly. Joint ventures and associated companies are companies related to Skanska. The cost of short-term leases amounts to SEK 560 M (–) and the cost of Information on transactions with these is presented in the following tables. leasing assets of low value amounts to SEK 919 M (–). Information on remuneration and transactions with senior executives is found in Note 36 and Note 37. For information on depreciation/amortization, see Note 12. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on right-of-use assets Transactions with joint ventures 2019 2018 In 2019 impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses were recognized Sales to joint ventures 7,275 8,249 in the net amount of SEK 10 M. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment Purchases from joint ventures 62 85 losses have during the year been made in Poland. Dividends from joint ventures 648 1,463 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses were recognized as cost Receivables from joint ventures 34 194 of sales. Transactions with associated companies 2019 2018 Receivables from associated companies 1 Liabilities to associated companies 29 L E Lundbergföretagen AB group has assigned Skanska to undertake five construction contracts for a total order backlog of SEK 0 M (51). Sales in 2019 amounted to SEK 65 M (245) and order bookings amounted to SEK 14 M (50). Skanska’s pension fund owns 0 (0) shares in Skanska directly. There is an insignificant percentage of indirectly owned shares via investments in various mutual funds. In 2019, Skanska Trean Allmän Pensionsstiftelse acquired 50 percent of Skanska’s Rv3 project for SEK 31 M. Skanska has received reimbursement from the pension funds and other services performed by Skanska were charged for. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 171 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 40. Continued Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Impairment losses Reversals of impairment losses Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Buildings and land – – 0 – Offices – 10 – 10 – Cars – – 0 – Machinery – – 0 – Other – – 0 – Total property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets 0 – 10 – 10 – Right-of-use assets, ground leases – – 0 – Total right-of-use current assets 0 – 0 – 0 – Carrying amount Other right-of-use Right-of-use Buildings and land Offices Cars Machinery assets, non-current assets, current 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 January 1 – – – – – – – – – – – – Changed accounting principle, Note 3 153 – 3,297 – 542 – 649 – 121 – 2,865 – Adjusted amount at beginning of year 153 – 3,297 – 542 – 649 – 121 – 2,865 – New leases 7 – 658 – 86 – 282 – 48 – 1,356 – Remeasurement 7 – –9 – –39 – – –1 – –65 – Leases sold –19 – –115 – –14 – –397 – –1 – –257 – Acquisitions of companies – 281 – – – – – Divestments – – – – – – Depreciation –19 – –636 – –185 – –156 – –60 – – Impairment losses – – – – – – Reversals of impairment losses – 10 – – – – – Reclassiﬁcations –12 – 4 – – –20 – – – Exchange rate differences for the year 3 – 106 – 15 – 28 – 2 – 81 – December 31 120 – 3,596 – 405 – 386 – 109 – 3,980 – Lease liabilities Other Lease liabilities amount to SEK 8,921 M (–) for a maturity analysis of the Revenue from subleasing of right-of-use assets consists mainly of leasing of undiscounted liabilities, see Note 6. offices and amounts to SEK 9 M (–). For information on interest expense, see Note 14. Profit in connection with sale and leaseback transactions after eliminaThe cost of variable lease payments that are not included in the measuretions amounts to SEK 23 M (–). ment of the lease liability amount to SEK 0 M (–). Skanska UK has sold the property 51 Moorgate to one of Deka For total lease payment cash flow, see the consolidated cash flow Immobilien’s property funds and Skanska is leasing back offices for 15 years statement. starting in July 2019. Future cash flows not reflected in lease liabilities amount to SEK 778 M The effect on cash flow of the sale and leaseback transaction amounts to (–). These relate to options to extend and cancel, and to leases that have not SEK 686 M. yet started but that Skanska has committed to. There are no leases containing special restrictions or special terms and conditions. 172 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 40. Continued Note 41. Events after the reporting period B. Skanska as lessor There were no events after the end of the reporting period. Finance leases Skanska Poland has an external lease that is subleased and recognized as a financial receivable of SEK 12 M. Operating leases Operating leases in the form of property leases are mainly entered into by the Commercial Property Development business stream. These properties are recognized as current assets in the statement of financial position. See Note 22. Lease income for Commercial Property Development in 2019 amounted to SEK 684 M (494). The Group’s variable lease income for operating leases for the year amounts to SEK 18 M (161), which is not dependent on an index or an interest rate. The due dates of future undiscounted payments relating to operating leases break down as follows: Income, due 2019 2018 Within one year 525 349 Later than one year but within five years 4,834 3,314 Later than ﬁve years 7,593 6,817 Total 12,952 10,480 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 173 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 42. Five-year Group financial summary Income statements, in accordance with IFRS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenue 172,846 171,730 157,877 145,365 153,049 Cost of sales –156,540 –157,465 –145,103 –131,119 –139,160 Gross income 16,306 14,265 12,774 14,246 13,889 Selling and administrative expenses –9,469 –9,473 –9,851 –9,152 –8,869 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 591 855 1,655 2,126 1,270 Operating income 7,428 5,647 4,578 7,220 6,290 Financial items –88 39 45 –119 –314 Income after financial items 7,340 5,686 4,623 7,101 5,976 Taxes –1,286 –1,092 –512 –1,366 –1,185 Profit for the year 6,054 4,594 4,111 5,735 4,791 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 6,031 4,571 4,095 5,722 4,780 Non-controlling interests 23 23 16 13 11 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans –895 –478 –399 –1,127 785 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 166 59 69 189 –175 –729 –419 –330 –938 610 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders 672 1,299 –599 1,165 71 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 3 3 8 8 –3 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 4 –183 –125 36 –21 Effect of cash flow hedges 31 –30 138 31 54 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies –41 272 83 855 281 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt for the period –10 7 –25 –4 –15 659 1,368 –520 2,091 367 Other comprehensive income after tax –70 949 –850 1,153 977 Comprehensive income for the year 5,984 5,543 3,261 6,888 5,768 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 5,958 5,517 3,237 6,867 5,760 Non-controlling interests 26 26 24 21 8 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 6,038 9,454 2,846 –883 8,584 Cash flow from investing activities –1,214 –2,367 1,590 –1,593 –1,385 Cash flow from financing activities –6,898 –3,509 –2,817 –4,090 –4,544 Cash flow for the year –2,074 3,578 1,619 –6,566 2,655 174 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 42. Continued Income statement, in accordance with Segment Reporting 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenue Construction 159,579 157,894 150,050 138,001 140,648 Residential Development 12,483 10,739 13,237 13,264 12,298 Commercial Property Development 17,850 16,271 11,440 10,226 9,034 Central and eliminations –13,130 –14,410 –13,904 –10,184 –7,045 Group 176,782 170,494 160,823 151,307 154,935 Operating income Construction 3,772 1,099 1,205 3,546 3,874 Residential Development 1,195 1,505 1,716 1,605 1,174 Commercial Property Development 3,287 3,069 2,714 2,336 1,947 Central –388 –780 –19 678 –483 Eliminations –38 –66 –112 34 –51 Operating income 7,828 4,827 5,504 8,199 6,461 Financial items –103 36 45 –118 –313 Income after financial items 7,725 4,863 5,549 8,081 6,148 Taxes –1,353 –934 –615 –1,555 –1,219 Profit for the year 6,372 3,929 4,934 6,526 4,929 Earnings per share, segment, SEK 15.46 9.55 12.01 15.89 11.96 Earnings per share after dilution, segment, SEK 15.39 9.49 11.94 15.80 11.87 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 175 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Not 42. Continued Statements of financial position Restated Restated Restated Restated Dec 31, 2019 Jan 1, 2019 4 Dec 31, 2018 Jan 1, 20185 Dec 31, 2017 Jan 1, 20176 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7,742 7,363 7,645 6,874 6,874 6,837 6,837 6,504 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets 4,616 4,762 Goodwill 4,057 4,324 4,324 4,554 4,554 5,270 5,270 5,256 Intangible assets 865 975 975 962 962 1,034 1,034 754 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,442 3,288 3,288 3,314 3,314 4,160 4,160 2,852 Non-current financial assets1,3 2,528 2,345 2,345 2,276 2,276 1,016 1,016 1,357 Deferred tax assets 1,862 1,948 1,933 1,797 1,757 1,649 1,649 1,384 Total non-current assets 25,112 25,005 20,510 19,777 19,737 19,966 19,966 18,107 Current assets Current-asset properties2 46,373 42,391 42,391 39,010 39,010 33,678 33,678 27,020 Current-asset properties right-of-use assets 3,980 2,865 Inventories 1,128 1,256 1,256 1,058 1,058 1,042 1,042 944 Current financial assets3 6,899 7,135 7,117 6,641 6,671 10,095 10,095 7,496 Tax assets 670 396 396 1,188 1,188 784 784 691 Contract assets 5,898 6,661 6,661 6,997 6,997 5,751 5,751 5,692 Other operating receivables 27,213 27,194 27,243 27,628 27,778 29,759 29,759 25,877 Cash and bank balances 8,745 10,722 10,722 6,998 6,998 5,430 5,430 11,840 Total current assets 100,906 98,620 95,786 89,520 89,700 86,539 86,539 79,560 TOTAL ASSETS 126,018 123,625 116,296 109,297 109,437 106,505 106,505 97,667 of which interest-bearing 18,000 20,089 20,071 15,770 20,071 16,318 16,318 20,511 EQUITY Equity attributable to equity holders 32,924 29,183 29,250 26,924 27,064 27,350 27,350 24,079 Non-controlling interests 97 97 97 121 121 156 156 127 Total equity 33,021 29,280 29,347 27,045 27,185 27,506 27,506 24,206 176 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Not 42. Continued Statements of financial position cont. Restated Restated Restated Restated Dec 31, 2019 Jan 1, 2019 4 Dec 31, 2018 Jan 1, 20185 Dec 31, 2017 Jan 1, 20176 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities3 2,565 3,632 3,912 3,857 3,857 3,656 3,656 3,874 Lease liabilities 7,843 6,953 Pensions 6,866 5,669 5,669 5,603 5,603 4,901 4,901 3,969 Deferred tax liabilities 1,045 711 711 1,235 1,235 1,491 1,491 1,286 Non-current provisions 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 18,319 16,965 10,292 10,695 10,695 10,049 10,049 9,129 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities3 4,617 7,308 7,310 7,624 7,624 6,681 6,681 6,555 Lease liabilities 1,078 816 Tax liabilities 564 615 615 312 312 489 489 560 Current provisions 10,021 9,922 9,922 9,131 9,131 7,614 7,227 6,432 Contract liabilities 20,419 20,738 20,738 16,266 16,266 18,322 18,473 15,821 Other operating liabilities 37,979 37,981 38,072 38,224 38,224 35,844 36,080 34,964 Total current liabilities 74,678 77,380 76,657 71,557 71,557 68,950 68,950 64,332 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 126,018 123,625 116,296 109,297 109,437 106,505 106,505 97,667 of which interest-bearing 22,917 24,327 16,840 16,926 16,296 15,099 15,099 14,194 1 Of which shares 44 41 41 42 42 44 44 61 2 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development 29,708 25,829 25,829 23,615 23,615 19,728 19,728 16,650 Residential Development 16,665 16,562 16,562 15,395 15,395 13,950 13,950 10,370 46,373 42,391 42,391 39,010 39,010 33,678 33,678 27,020 3 Items related to non-interest-bearing unrealized changes in the value of derivatives/ securities are included as follows: Non-current financial assets 1 2 2 6 6 2 2 1 Current financial assets 127 70 70 97 97 177 177 120 Non-current financial liabilities 2 3 3 21 21 116 116 173 Current financial liabilities 50 48 48 137 137 49 49 72 4 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 16. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. 5 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 9. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. 6 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 15. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 177 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 42. Continued Financial ratios7 Restated Restated Restated Restated Dec 31, 2019 Jan 1, 2019 4 Dec 31, 2018 Jan 1, 20185 Dec 31, 2017 Jan 1, 20176 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Order bookings 8 145,818 151,719 151,811 170,244 122,104 Order backlog 8 185,370 192,042 188,411 196,254 158,248 Average number of employees 34,756 38,650 40,759 42,903 48,470 Regular dividend per share, SEK 9 6.25 6.00 8.25 8.25 7.50 Earnings per share, SEK 14.68 11.17 11.17 10.00 10.00 13.96 13.96 11.63 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 14.62 11.11 11.11 9.94 9.94 13.88 13.88 11.53 Capital employed 55,938 53,607 46,187 43,971 44,111 42,605 38,400 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities –4,917 –4,238 3,231 –1,156 –1,126 1,219 6,317 Equity per share, SEK 80.01 71.40 66.22 66.82 58.58 Equity/assets ratio, % 26.2 23.7 25.2 24.8 25.8 24.8 Debt/equity ratio 0.1 0.1 –0.1 0.0 0.0 –0.3 Interest cover 100.6 –245.8 288 88.7 57.9 Return on equity, % 20.3 16.5 16.4 15.5 24.9 21.9 Return on capital employed, % 14.3 12.7 13.0 11.1 19.2 17.4 Return on equity, segments, % 21.4 14.1 14.1 18.6 28.3 22.5 Return on capital employed in project development units, segments, % 10.3 11.9 12.0 13.6 14.8 12.8 Operating margin, % 4.3 3.3 2.9 5.0 4.1 Operating margin, Construction, % 2.4 0.7 0.8 2.6 2.8 Cash flow per share, SEK 3.26 9.51 –2.44 –10.16 11.90 Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 of which Series A shares 19,704,715 19,725,759 19,755,414 19,793,202 19,859,200 of which Series B shares 400,198,357 400,177,313 400,147,658 400,109,870 400,043,872 Average price, repurchased shares 137.54 137.54 137.31 132.18 121.02 Number of Series B shares repurchased during the year 0 435,000 2,350,000 4,345,000 2,340,000 Number of Series B treasury shares, December 31 8,394,479 10,224,634 11,190,028 10,594,644 8,866,223 Number of shares outstanding, December 31 411,508,593 409,678,438 408,713,044 409,308,428 411,036,849 Average number of shares outstanding 410,720,937 409,130,770 409,447,407 409,896,419 411,059,056 Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 412,585,074 411,415,278 411,905,245 412,174,095 414,445,854 Average dilution, % 0.45 0.56 0.60 0.55 0.82 4 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 16. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. 5 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 9. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. 6 Restated due to implementation of IFRS 15. For effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 3. 7 For definitions, see Note 43. 8 Refers to Construction. 9 Proposed by the Board of Directors: Regular dividend of SEK 6.25 per share. 178 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 43. Definitions Return on equity Profit attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average visible equity attributable to equity holders. Return on equity segment, SEK M Profit attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average equity attributable to equity holders. 6,349 / 29,675 = 21,4% Consolidated return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Return on capital employed, business Operating income, ﬁnancial income minus interest income from Skanska’s treasury unit (internal bank) streams, markets and business/reporting and other ﬁnancial items as a percentage of average capital employed. For the Residential Development units and Commercial Property Development segments, capitalized interest expense is removed from operating income so that the return reflects the return before mortgages. Return on capital employed in Residential Operating income 1,195 Development segment, SEK M + capitalized interest expense 82 +/– financial income and other financial items 11 – interest income from internal bank –7 Adjusted profit 1,281 Average capital employed1 13,117 Average capital employed in Residential 9,8% Development 1) Average capital employed Q4 2019 12,954 x 0.5 6,477 Q3 2019 13,444 13,444 Q2 2019 12,854 12,854 Q1 2019 12,873 12,873 Q4 2018 13,636 x 0.5 6,818 52,466 / 4 13,117 Return on capital employed in Commercial Operating income 3,287 Property Development segment, SEK M + capitalized interest expense 232 +/– financial income and other financial items 3 – interest income from internal bank –1 Adjusted profit 3,521 Average capital employed1 33,689 Return on capital employed in Commercial 10.5% Property Development 1) Average capital employed Q4 2019 34,495 x 0.5 17,248 Q3 2019 36,744 36,744 Q2 2019 34,600 34,600 Q1 2019 32,828 32,828 Q4 2018 26,672 x 0.5 13,336 134,756 / 4 33 689 Return on capital employed in the project Calculated as the sum of the adjusted profit in Residential Development and Commercial Property development units segment, SEK M Development divided by the aggregate amount of capital employed, average, for Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. The total return on capital employed in Residential Development and Commercial Property Development Adjusted profit Capital employed, Return on capital average employed Residential Development 1,281 13,117 9.8% Commercial Property Development 3,521 33,689 10.5% 4,802 46,806 10.3% Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 179 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 43. Continued Gross income Revenue minus cost of sales. Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of revenue. Equity per share Visible equity attributable to equity holders divided by the number of shares outstanding at year-end. Net financial items The net of interest income, financial net pension cost, interest expense, capitalized interest expense, change in fair value and other financial items. Free working capital Non-interest-bearing receivables less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding taxes. Average free working capital Calculated on the basis of five measurement points. in Construction SEK M Q4 2019 –26,401 x,0.5 –13,201 Q3 2019 –24,371 –24,371 Q2 2019 –24,332 –24,332 Q1 2019 –25,526 –25,526 Q4 2018 –25,641 x,0.5 –12,821 –100,251 / 4 –25 063 Selling and administrative expenses, % Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. Equity average attributable to equity Calculated on the basis of five measurement points. holders, SEK M Q4 2019 32,924 x,0.5 16,462 Q3 2019 30,204 30,204 Q2 2019 29,474 29,474 Q1 2019 27,935 27,935 Q4 2018 29,250 x,0.5 14,625 118,700 / 4 29 675 Revenue, segments Revenue, segments is the same as revenue IFRS in all streams except for Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, where revenue is recognized when signing a binding agreement for the sale of homes and properties. As segment reporting of joint ventures in Residential Development applies the proportional method, revenue, segment is affected by this. Adjusted equity attributable to equity Equity attributable to equity holders 32.9 holders, SEK bn Unrealized surplus value in land, Residential Development 3.2 Unrealized development gains, Commercial Property Development 9.8 Effect on unrealized equity in PPP portfolio 1.6 Less standard corporate tax, 10% –1.4 Adjusted equity 46.1 Cash flow per share Cash flow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Net divestments/investments Total investments minus total divestments. Cash flow from operations Cash flow from operating activities including taxes paid and cash flow from financing activities. See also Note 35. Order bookings Contracting assignments: Upon written order confirmation or signed contract, where financing has been arranged and construction is expected to begin within 12 months. If a previously received order is canceled in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is recognized as a negative item when reporting order bookings for the quarter when the cancellation occurs.Reported order bookings also include orders from Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, which assumes that a building permit has been obtained and construction is expected to begin within three months. Services: For fixed-price assignments, upon signing of contract. For cost-plus assignments, order bookings coincide with revenue. For service agreements, a maximum of 24 months of future revenue is included. No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. 180 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 43. Continued Order bookings in relation to revenue Order bookings as a percentage of Construction revenue, rolling 12-month basis. in Construction, rolling 12-month basis Unrealized development gains, Market value minus investment value upon completion for ongoing projects, completed projects, and Commercial Property Development undeveloped land and development properties. Excluding projects sold according to segment reporting. Order backlog Contracting assignments: The difference between order bookings for the period and accrued revenue (accrued project costs plus accrued project income adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. Services: The difference between order bookings and accrued revenue plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. Income after financial items Operating income minus net financial items. Earnings per share, segments Proﬁt for the period, segments, attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Earnings per share Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Earnings per share after dilution Profit for the year attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding after dilution. Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities Interest-bearing assets minus interest-bearing liabilities. Interest-bearing net receivables/net Interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities excluding cash and cash equivalents with restrictions, lease liabilities liabilities, adjusted and interest-bearing net pension liabilities. Interest cover Operating income and financial income plus depreciation/amortization divided by net interest items. Operating income Revenue minus cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies. Operating income, segments Revenue minus cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies, according to segment reporting and where Residential Development uses the proportional method for joint ventures. Operating income, rolling 12-month basis Revenue minus cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies, rolling 12-month basis. Operating margin Operating income as a percentage of revenue. Net debt/equity ratio Interest-bearing net liabilities divided by equity including non-controlling interests. Equity/assets ratio Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total assets. Capital employed, average Calculated on the basis of five measurement points, see Return on capital employed. Capital employed, consolidated Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities. Capital employed, markets, business Total assets less tax assets, deposits in Skanska’s internal bank and pension receivables minus non-intereststreams and business/reporting units bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. Capitalized interest expense is also deducted from total assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 181 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 43. Continued Capital employed Residential Total assets 20,929 Development, SEK M – tax assets –286 – deposits in internal bank –549 – pension receivables –29 – non-interest-bearing liabilities (excluding tax liabilities) –7,030 – capitalized interest expense –81 12,954 Capital employed Commercial Total assets 38,747 Property Development, SEK M – tax assets –445 – deposits in internal bank –19 – pension receivables – non-interest-bearing liabilities (excluding tax liabilities) –3,452 – capitalized interest expense –336 34,495 Comprehensive income Change in equity not attributable to transactions with owners. Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income minus profit according to the income statement. The item includes translation differences, hedging of exchange-rate risk in foreign operations, remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans, effects of cash flow hedges and tax attributable to other comprehensive income. 182 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Parent Company’s notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 44. Financial instruments, Parent Company Financial instruments are presented in accordance with IFRS 7 Financial Risks attributable to financial instruments Instruments: Disclosures. This note contains ﬁgures for the Parent The Parent Company holds financial instruments almost exclusively in the Company’s financial instruments. See also the notes to the consolidated form of intra-Group receivables and liabilities. All external management financial statements: Note 1, Note 6 and financial risk management. of lending, borrowing, interest and currencies is handled by the Group’s treasury unit (internal bank), the subsidiary Skanska Financial Services AB. Financial instruments in the balance sheet Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 See also Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. Assets Credit risk Non-current receivables in Group companies 318 301 The carrying amount of ﬁnancial instruments, assets, corresponds to the Current receivables in Group companies 28 12 maximum credit exposure on the closing day. Total financial instruments, assets 346 313 There were no impairment losses on financial instruments as of the closing day. There is no provision for expected future credit losses according Liabilities to IFRS 9 as the Parent Company’s trade accounts receivable – with only one Non-current liabilities to Group companies 2,816 3,500 small exception – are Group company receivables over which Skanska AB exercises control. The credit risk is therefore minimal. Trade accounts payable and current liabilities to Group companies 42 44 Total financial instruments, liabilities 2,858 3,544 The fair value of the Parent Company’s financial instruments does not Note 45. Revenue, Parent Company deviate significantly in any case from the carrying amount. All assets belong to the category “At amortized cost”. No assets have been carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss. All financial liabilities belong to the category The Parent Company’s revenue consists mainly of amounts billed to Group “Carried at amortized cost”. companies. The amount includes SEK 726 M (736) in sales to subsidiaries. For other transactions with related parties, see Note 62. Reconciliation with the balance sheet Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Assets Financial instruments 346 313 Other assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible Note 46. Financial items, Parent Company assets 11 14 Holdings in Group companies, joint ventures Earnings from Interest and other securities 11,321 11,286 holdings in expense and Group companies similar items Total Other non-current receivables 107 107 2019 Tax assets 72 88 Dividend 2,896 2,896 Other current receivables and accrued receivables 121 123 Interest expense –33 –33 Total assets 11,978 11,931 Total 2,896 –33 2,863 Equity and liabilities 2018 Financial instruments 2,858 3,544 Dividend 3,982 3,982 Other liabilities Interest expense –51 –51 Equity 8,788 7,996 Total 3,982 –51 3,931 Provisions 254 315 Dividends Other current liabilities and accrued liabilities 78 76 The amount for dividends consists of dividends as decided by the Annual Total equity and liabilities 11,978 11,931 General Meeting, amounting to SEK 3,000 M (4,000), less SEK –104 M (–18) in Group contributions paid. Impact of financial instruments on the Net interest items Parent Company income statement Of interest expense, SEK –33 M (–51) relates to Group companies. Financial income and expenses recognized in financial items 2019 2018 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities carried at amortized cost –33 –51 Total –33 –51 The Parent Company has no income or expense from ﬁnancial instruments that is recognized directly in equity. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 183 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 47. Income taxes, Parent Company Note 48. Intangible assets, Parent Company 2019 2018 Intangible assets are recognized in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. See Note 1. Amortization of intangible assets for the year according to plan Current taxes –11 amounts to SEK –2 M (–3) and is included in selling and administrative expenses. Tax due to changed taxation In determining the amortization amount, the Parent Company has paid Deferred tax expenses/income from change particular attention to estimated residual value at the end of useful life. in temporary differences –10 –3 Intangible assets Total –21 –3 2019 2018 The Swedish tax rate of 21.4 percent in relation to taxes recognized is Accumulated cost explained in the table below. January 1 27 27 27 27 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Accumulated amortization according to plan Income after financial items 3,059 3,973 January 1 –14 –11 Tax at tax rate of 21.4 percent (22.0) –655 –874 Amortization for the year –2 –3 Tax effect of: –16 –14 Dividends from subsidiaries 642 880 Accumulated impairment losses Effect of changed corporate tax rate in January 1 0 Sweden on deferred tax assets –4 0 0 Non-deductible expenses –8 –5 Recognized tax expense/income –21 –3 Carrying amount, December 31 11 13 Carrying amount, January 1 13 16 Non-deductible expenses refers mainly to employee-related costs and costs for the Group’s foreign operations. Deferred tax assets 2019 2018 Note 49. Property, plant and equipment, Deferred tax assets for employee-related provisions 64 74 Parent Company Total 64 74 Property, plant and equipment are reported in accordance with IAS 16 Change in deferred taxes in balance sheet 2019 2018 Property, Plant and Equipment. See Note 1. Machinery and equipment Deferred tax assets, January 1 74 77 owned by the Parent Company are recognized as property, plant and equipment. Deferred tax expense/income –10 –3 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment for the year according to Deferred tax assets, December 31 64 74 plan amounts to SEK –1 M (–1). The Parent Company expects to be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset Group contributions from Swedish operating subsidiaries. Plant and equipment 2019 2018 Accumulated cost January 1 7 7 7 7 Accumulated amortization according to plan January 1 –6 –5 Amortization for the year –1 –1 –7 –6 Carrying amount, December 31 0 1 Carrying amount, January 1 1 2 184 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 50. Non-current financial assets, Parent Company Holdings and receivables are reported as non-current financial assets. Holdings are allocated between holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements. See Note 51 and Note 52. Receivables are allocated between receivables in Group companies, deferred tax assets and other non-current receivables. Tax assets are described in Note 47 Income taxes. All receivables except deferred tax assets are interest-bearing. Holdings in Group Holdings in joint Other non-current companies arrangements holdings of securities Holdings 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated cost January 1 11,283 11,206 3 2 0 0 Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries1 35 77 Share of income 1 11,318 11,283 3 3 0 0 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount, December 31 11,318 11,283 3 3 0 0 Carrying amount, January 1 11,283 11,206 3 2 0 0 1 Equivalent to the portion of the Group’s cost for Seop 3 and Seop 4 related to employees of subsidiaries and recognized in the Parent Company accounts as an increase in the carrying amount of holdings in Group companies and an increase in equity.If a decision is later made requiring a subsidiary to compensate the Parent Company for the value of the shares issued, receivables are transferred to the Group company. The amount for 2019 was thus reduced by SEK 199 M (160). Other non-current Receivables from receivables and deferred Group companies tax assets Receivables 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated cost January 1 301 247 182 184 Receivables added/settled 17 54 –11 –2 318 301 171 182 Carrying amount, December 31 318 301 171 182 Carrying amount, January 1 301 247 182 184 Note 51. Holdings in Group companies, Parent Company Skanska AB owns shares in two subsidiaries. The subsidiary Skanska Kraft AB is a holding company that owns the Group’s shareholdings in Skanska Group operating companies. Skanska Financial Services AB is the Group’s treasury unit (internal bank). No. of Corp. ID No. Registered office shares Carrying amount Company Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Swedish subsidiaries Skanska Financial Services AB 556106-3834 Stockholm 500,000 66 67 Skanska Kraft AB 556118-0943 Stockholm 4,000,000 11,252 11,216 Total 11,318 11,283 Both subsidiaries are 100-percent owned by the Parent Company. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 185 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 52. Holdings in joint arrangements, Parent Company Holdings in joint arrangements are reported in accordance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. See Note 1. Carrying amount Percentage of Company Corp. ID No. Registered office capital and votes Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Swedish joint arrangements Sundlink Contractors HB 969620-7134 Malmö, Sweden 37 3 3 Total 3 3 The company has no operations other than fulfilling guarantee undertakings. Note 53. Prepaid expenses and accrued income, Parent Company The Parent Company has prepaid expenses and accrued income of SEK 14 M (7). This amount consists of SEK 1 M (1) in prepaid insurance premiums and SEK 13 M (6) in other accrued receivables. Note 54. Equity, Parent Company Restricted and unrestricted equity The number of shares amounted to 419,903,072 (419,903,072), divided According to Swedish law, equity must be allocated between restricted into 19,704,715 (19,725,759) Series A shares and and unrestricted equity. Share capital and the statutory reserve constitute 400,198,357 (400,177,313) Series B shares. restricted equity. During the year 21,044 (29,655) Series A shares were converted into the Unrestricted equity consists of retained earnings and profit for the year. same number of Series B shares. The equity of the Parent Company was allocated among SEK 1,260 M A total of 0 (435,000) Series B shares were repurchased. After distribution (1,260) in share capital, SEK 598 M (598) in the statutory reserve, SEK 3,892 of 1,830,155 (1,400,394) shares, there were 8,394,479 (10,224,634) Series B M (2,168) in retained earnings and SEK 3,038 M (3,970) in profit for the year. treasury shares remaining. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2020 of SEK 6.25 (6.00) The quota value per share amounts to SEK 3.00 (3.00). All shares are fully per share for the 2019 financial year. paid up. Each Series A share carries 10 votes and each Series B share carries The dividend for the year is expected to amount to SEK 2,572 M (2,462). one vote. Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B shares. According to the Articles of Association, Skanska’s share capital may not The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending fall below SEK 1,200 M nor exceed SEK 4,800 M. on share repurchase transactions and the transfer of Series B shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership programs. Number of shares 2019 2018 Average number of shares outstanding after share repurchase transactions and conversion 410,720,937 409,130,770 after share repurchase transactions, conversion and dilution 412,585,074 411,415,278 Total number of shares 419,903,072 419,903,072 186 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 55. Provisions, Parent Company Provisions are reported in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. See Note 1. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Other provisions 2019 2018 2019 2018 January 1 176 174 139 133 Provisions for the year 10 15 63 102 Provisions utilized –13 –13 –121 –96 December 31 173 176 81 139 “Other provisions” consists of employee-related provisions. The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is about one to three years. Employee-related provisions includes such items as social insurance contributions for share investment programs, bonus programs and other obligations to employees. Note 56. Provisions for pensions and similar Note 57. Liabilities, Parent Company obligations, Parent Company Liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities in Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are reported in compliance accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. See Note 1. with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Accrued expenses and prepaid income The Parent Company has accrued expenses and prepaid income of SEK 73 M Pension liabilities according to the balance sheet (70). This relates to accrued vacation pay of SEK 23 M (26), accrued special Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 payroll tax on pensions of SEK 25 M (22), accrued social insurance contribuInterest-bearing pension liabilities1 117 118 tions of SEK 8 M (9) and other accrued expenses of SEK 17 M (13). Other pension obligations 56 58 Total 173 176 1 Liabilities in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 The company’s total pension obligations 856 888 Less pension obligations secured through pension funds –683 –712 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations1 173 176 1 Of which SEK 10 M (11) is secured through credit insurance. Other pension obligations are largely secured through pledged endowment policies. Of the company’s total pension obligations SEK 613 M (638) is for ITP plans No payments to pensions funds are expected to be made in 2020. Reconciliation, provisions for pensions 2019 2018 January 1 118 119 Pension expenses 15 23 Benefits paid –16 –24 Provisions for pensions according to the balance sheet 117 118 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 187 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 58. Expected recovery period of assets, provisions and liabilities, Parent Company Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 After After Within After five years Within After five years Amounts expected to be recovered 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total Intangible non-current assets1 3 8 11 3 10 13 Property, plant and equipment1 0 1 1 Non-current financial assets 11,321 11,321 Holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements2 318 318 11,286 11,286 Receivables in Group companies3 107 107 301 301 Other non-current receivables 64 64 107 107 Deferred tax assets 74 74 11,810 0 11,810 0 11,768 0 11,768 Current receivables Current receivables in Group companies 28 28 12 12 Tax assets 8 8 14 14 Other current receivables 107 107 116 116 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 14 14 7 7 157 0 0 157 149 0 0 149 Total assets 160 11,818 0 11,978 152 11,779 0 11,931 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 After After Within After five years Within After five years Amounts expected to be paid 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 13 160 173 13 163 176 Other provisions 64 17 81 117 22 139 77 177 0 254 130 185 0 315 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Liabilities to Group companies 4 2,816 2,816 3,500 3,500 0 0 2,816 2,816 0 0 3,500 3,500 Current liabilities Trade accounts payable 21 21 18 18 Liabilities to Group companies 21 21 26 26 Tax liabilities 0 0 0 Other liabilities 5 5 6 6 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 73 73 70 70 120 0 0 120 120 0 0 120 Total liabilities and provisions 197 177 2,816 3,190 250 185 3,500 3,935 Total equity 8,788 7,996 Equity and liabilities 11,978 11,931 1 1 In case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, expected depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months. 3 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months, since the lending is considered to be non-current. 4 Intra-Group non-current interest-bearing liabilities are treated as having a maturity of more than ﬁve years from the closing day. 188 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 59. Assets pledged and contingent Note 60. Cash flow statement, Parent Company liabilities, Parent Company Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Assets pledged Assets pledged by the Parent Company totaled SEK 107 M (107), which 2019 2018 relates to assets in the form of non-current receivables. Depreciation/amortization 3 4 These assets were pledged as collateral for some of the Parent Company’s Cost of Seop 12 16 pension obligations. Total 15 20 Contingent liabilities Tax paid Contingent liabilities are reported in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Total taxes paid in the Parent Company during the year amount to SEK –5 Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Note 1, section IAS 37, M (–6). describes the accounting principles. Information about interest and dividends Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 2019 2018 Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 155,060 144,033 Interest paid during the year 33 51 Other contingent liabilities 18,474 23,806 The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is 173,534 167,839 shown in the following table. Of the Parent Company’s contingent liabilities on behalf of Group 2019 2018 companies, almost SEK 129 billion (121) relates to obligations for construction operations, mainly guarantees provided when Group companies January 1 3,500 4,177 were awarded contracts. The remaining contingent liabilities for Group Items affecting cash ﬂow companies relate to guarantees for borrowing by Group companies from from ﬁnancing activities –684 –677 credit institutions, guarantee undertakings in connection with divestment December 31 2,816 3,500 of properties by Group companies, guaranteeing Group company undertakings to supply capital to their joint ventures and guarantees for Group company pension obligations. Of other contingent liabilities, SEK 10.8 billion (14.6) relates to liability for external entities’ portion of ongoing contracting work. Of the remaining SEK 7.7 billion (9.2), SEK 0.5 billion (0.6) is attributable to guarantees provided for ﬁnancing of joint arrangements in which Group companies are co-owners and SEK 7.2 billion (8.6) is for guarantees in connection with ﬁnancing of residential projects in Sweden. The amounts in the table above include an amount of less than SEK 1 M (1) in Parent Company contingent liabilities relating to construction consortia. The company’s contingent liabilities relate entirely to guarantees originating from surety provided or responsibilities as a shareholder in companies. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 189 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 61. Personnel, Parent Company Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance Average number of employees contributions Personnel is calculated as the average number of employees. See Note 1. 2019 2018 of of of Salaries Salaries which which which of which and remuPension and remuPension 2019 men women 2018 men women SEK M neration expenses neration expenses Sweden 97 38 59 118 45 73 Total salaries and remuneration, Board, President and other senior executives 62.0 10.9 52.0 9.2 Men and women on the Board of Directors of which variable and Group Leadership Team on closing day remuneration 19.2 9.3 of of of of which severance Dec 31, which which Dec 31, which of which related compensation 2019 men women 2018 men women Number of Board Other employees 77.2 83.1 103.1 99.8 members and Less indemniﬁcation deputy members 10 60% 40% 12 58% 42% from pension fund –79.0 –86.0 Number of President Total 139.2 15.0 155.1 23.0 and CEO and other members of Group Leadership Team 6 67% 33% 6 67% 33% Social insurance contributions 63.0 79.0 of which pension expenses 15.0 23.0 For disclosures of individual remuneration to each Board member and the President and CEO, see Note 37. For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are made concerning salaries and remuneration Note 62. Related party disclosures, or pensions since they do not receive these in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who were employees of the company prior to Parent Company the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, disclosures are made concerning pension obligations in their former role as employees. Through its ownership and percentage of voting power, AB Industrivärden In 2019, bonuses paid to the President and CEO and other senior execuhas a signiﬁcant inﬂuence as deﬁned in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. tives amounted to SEK 9.3 M (7.7). Information on personnel expenses is found in Note 61. For transactions In 2019, an allotment of shares occurred under the employee ownership with senior executives, see Note 37. program, Seop 3. The value of shares allotted amounted to SEK 21.0 M (39.7), of which SEK 6.0 M (17.3) was for Board members, the President and 2019 2018 CEO and other members of the Group Leadership Team. Sales to Group companies 726 736 The Parent Company’s pension expenses are calculated in compliance Purchases from Group companies –177 –219 with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. In 2019, Skanska’s Swedish pension funds reimbursed Skanska AB in the Interest expense to Group companies –33 –51 amount of around SEK 79 M (86). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and Dividends from Group companies 2,896 3,982 CEOs, including former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 163.5 M (159.2). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Executive Vice Non-current receivables from Group compaPresidents, including former Executive Vice Presidents, amounted to SEK nies 318 301 102.7 M (88.0). Current receivables from Group companies 28 12 The cost in 2019 for defined-contribution pension plans was SEK 25.1 M (38.8) excluding indemnification. Non-current liabilities to Group companies 2,816 3,500 Current liabilities to Group companies 21 26 Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 155,060 144,033 190 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Note 63. Disclosures in compliance with the Note 64. Supplementary information, Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Parent Company Section 2 a, Parent Company Skanska AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615, is the Due to the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Parent Company of the Group. Section 2 a, concerning disclosures on certain circumstances that may The company has its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden, and is a affect the possibility of a takeover of the company through a public takeover limited company in compliance with Swedish legislation. bid for the shares in the company, the following disclosures are hereby The company’s headquarters are located in Stockholm, Sweden. provided: 1. T he total number of shares in the company on December 31, 2019 was Address: 419,903,072, of which 19,704,715 were Series A shares with 10 votes each Skanska AB and 400,198,357 Series B shares with one vote each. SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM 2. T here are no restrictions on the transferability of shares due to provisions Tel: +46 10 448 00 00 in the law or the Articles of Association. Fax: +46 8 755 12 56 3. O f the company’s shareholders, only AB Industrivärden and Lundbergs www.skanska.se directly or indirectly have a shareholding that represents at least one tenth of the voting power of all shares in the company. On December For questions concerning financial information, please contact 31, 2019, AB Industrivärden’s holding amounted to 24.3 percent of total Skanska AB, Investor Relations, SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM, Sweden voting power in the company and Lundbergs’ holding to 12.8 percent of Tel: +46 10 448 00 00 total voting power in the company. E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se 4. S kanska’s pension fund does not own any shares in Skanska directly. There is, however, an insignificant percentage of indirectly owned shares via investments in various mutual funds. 5. T here are no restrictions on the number of votes each shareholder may cast at an Annual General Meeting. 6. T he company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the right to transfer shares. Note 65. Events after the reporting period 7. T he Articles of Association state that the appointment of Board members is to take place at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The Articles There are no material events to report for the Parent Company during the of Association contain no stipulations on dismissal of Board members or period. on amendments to the Articles of Association. 8. T he 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved in accordane with the Board of Directors’ proposal to authorize the Board of Directors to resolve on acquisitions of own Series B shares in Skanska on the following terms and conditions: A. Acquisitions of Series B shares in Skanska may only be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. B. T he authorization may be exercised on one or several occasions, however at the latest until the 2020 Annual General Meeting. C. N o more than 1,000,000 Series B shares in Skanska may be acquired to secure delivery of shares to participants in Seop 5. D. Acquisitions of Series B shares in Skanska on Nasdaq Stockholm may only be made at a price within the from time to time applicable range of prices (spread) on Nasdaq Stockholm, meaning the interval between the highest purchase price and lowest selling price. 9. Skanska AB or its Group companies are not party to any material agreement that will go into effect, be amended or cease to apply if control over the company or Group companies changes as a consequence of a public takeover bid. 10. T here are agreements between Skanska AB or its Group companies and employees that prescribe remuneration if employment is terminated without reasonable grounds. Such remuneration may not exceed 18 months’ ﬁxed salary after the end of the notice period or, in the case of the CEO, a maximum of 12 months’ severance pay and a maximum of 12 months’ fixed salary after the end of the notice period. 11. T here are no agreements prescribing termination of employment as a consequence of a public takeover bid for the shares in the company. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 191 Report of the Directors/Allocation of earnings Note 66. Allocation of earnings The Board of Directors and the President and CEO propose that the proﬁt for 2019 of SEK 3,037,967,086 plus the retained earnings of SEK 3,891,650,830 carried forward from the previous year, totaling 6,929,617,916 be allocated as follows: A dividend to the shareholders of1 SEK 6.25 per share 2,571,928,706 To be carried forward 4,357,689,210 Total 6,929,617,916 The consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, respectively, have been prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of IFRS and generally accepted accounting principles, and provide a true and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. The Report of the Directors for the Group and the Parent Company provides a true and fair view of the operations, ﬁnancial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, February 6, 2020 Hans Biörck Chairman Pär Boman Charlotte Strömberg Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Board member Board member Board member Board member Jayne McGivern Jan Gurander Board member Board member Richard Hörstedt Yvonne Stenman Ola Fält Board member Board member Board member Anders Danielsson President and Chief Executive Officer Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on March 2, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 1 Based on the total number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2019. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on share repurchase transactions and the transfer of shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership programs. 192 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report This is a translation from the Swedish original. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International To the general meeting of the shareholders of Skanska AB Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing (publ), corporate identity number 556000-4615 standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. Report on the annual accounts We are independent of the parent company and the group in and consolidated accounts accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in Opinions accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services of Skanska AB (publ) for the year 2019 except for the statutory referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have sustainability report on pages 56 –85. The annual accounts and been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. 37–192 in this document. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent compaKey audit matters ny as of December 31st, 2019 and its financial performance and Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our procash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual fessional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and conDecember 31st, 2019 and their financial performance and cash solidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate flow for the year then ended in accordance with International opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s been prepared. Our opinions do not cover the statutory sustainresponsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section ability report on pages 56 –85. of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, The statutory administration report and the corporate goverour audit included the performance of procedures designed to nance statement are consistent with the other parts of the annual respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement accounts and consolidated accounts, and the corporate goverof the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, nance statement is in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. including the procedures performed to address the matters We therefore recommend that the general meeting of sharebelow, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanyholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the ing financial statements. parent company and the group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 193 Auditor’s report Revenue recognition over time in Construction contracts Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The main portion of the company’s income relates to conOur audit procedures include, among others, analytical prostruction contracts. For 2019 the revenues from construction cedures of revenue and margins of material projects and data contracts amount to MSEK 146,232. Usually a performance oblitransaction analytics. We have audited samples of revenue gation is satisfied over time which means that revenue should and costs in selected projects, which are of considerable size or be recognized over time by measuring the progress towards represents a significant risk to the company. We have also had complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. Revenue discussions with the group controllers and responsible project is recognized on the basis of Skanska’s efforts to the satisfacmanagers including assessments, assumptions and estimates tion of a performance obligation relative to the total expected related to revenue recognition, income statement and cost efforts. This requires the entity to be able to measure its progress allocation. towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation and We have audited material contracts to be able to identify determine the transaction price. This in turn requires that the potential risks for penalties associated with delays in the projGroup has effective, coordinated systems for cost estimation, ects, and we also have continuous meetings with the Company’s forecasting and revenue/expense reporting. Also, a consistent internal legal representatives. We have audited depositions and process is required to assess the final outcome of the project, other provisions related to projects within Construction on the including analysis of differences compared with earlier assessbase of underlying data and the Company’s assessments. ment dates. This critical judgment is performed at least once per During the year we have conducted site visits on larger projquarter. ects or projects associated with a higher material risk. We have continuous meetings and discussions with responsible auditors in each country to identify and cover country-specific risks. We have assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates of the final outcomes of projects through discussions with Skanska’s Group Leadership Team and Audit Committee. In addition, we have evaluated whether the valuation of revenue in the Company’s accounting principles is reasonable and assessed the completeness of the disclosure requirements, which are found in Note 4 “Operating Segments” and Note 9 “Contract assets and contract liabilities”. Valuation of investments in property project development Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The book value of investments in property development Our audit procedures include assessing budgets and finanprojects, which constitute current asset properties, amounts to cial projections and reviewing other financial input used to MSEK 46,373 as shown in note 22 “Current-asset properties/ determine the value in use models. We have also audited work Project development”. As shown in note 22 the current-asset performed by external appraisers. We specifically focused properties are carried at cost or net realizable value, whichever on the sensitivity in the difference between the net realizable is lower, and the company therefore makes calculations of the value/estimated value and book values of the projects, where net realizable value. Potential impairment in development a reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the projects under construction and completed projects could have carrying amount to exceed its estimated present value. We also significant impact on Skanska”s net income. Changes in the assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. We supply of similar projects, as well as changes in demand may evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included materially affect both estimated market values and carrying in Note 22. amounts for each project. These projects vary in size and the investment cycle could be either short or long. 194 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Auditor’s report Claims and litigations Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The provision for legal disputes amounts to MSEK 1,501. As We have gained an understanding of the claims and litigations outlined in Note 29 “Provisions” of the Annual Report, the through discussions with the responsible persons within the Company is exposed to potential claims and disputes in the Company. We have read the internal position papers prepared Construction business stream for projects that have been comby the Company. We also obtained lawyers’ letters to the extent pleted. Claims and disputes including any provisions is a key considered necessary for our audit. For all potentially material audit matter to our audit because management judgement is claims we tested the underlying facts and circumstances conrequired. The assessment process is complex and entails assesssidered relevant for the legal advisors to reach their conclusions ing future developments. In addition, some of the claims are in and assessed the best estimate of outflows and associated provicountries where the legal proceedings can stretch out over an sions as determined by the Company. extended period of time. Other Information than the annual accounts accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however and consolidated accounts not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director This document also contains other information than the annual intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–36 realistic alternative but to do so. and 193–211. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board are responsible for this other information. of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Auditor’s responsibility In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are identified above and consider whether the information is matefree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, rially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our know­ Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a ledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always If we, based on the work performed concerning this informadetect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be to report in this regard. expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesand the Managing Director sional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsiout the audit. We also: ble for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of sible for such internal control as they determine is necessary not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, to fraud or error. or the override of internal control. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsirelevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that ble for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s related to going concern and using the going concern basis of internal control. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 195 Auditor’s report • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and Report on other legal and regulatory requirements the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Opinions Director. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of of Directors and the Managing Director of Skanska AB (publ) for accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit eviprofit or loss. dence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going the statutory administration report and that the members of the concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the from liability for the financial year. related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our Basis for opinions opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibiliconditions may cause a company and a group to cease to conties section. We are independent of the parent company and the tinue as a going concern. group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disin accordance with these requirements. closures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiaccounts represent the underlying transactions and events in cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the financial information of the entities or business activities The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approwithin the group to express an opinion on the consolidated priations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s for our opinions. and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, requirements, liquidity and position in general. the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s of significant audit findings during our audit, including any organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regardthe company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, ing independence, and to communicate with them all relationmanagement of assets and the company’s financial affairs ships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among we determine those matters that were of most significance in the other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, includcompany’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the ing the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, management of assets in a reassuring manner. and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes Auditor’s responsibility disclosure about the matter. Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. 196 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Auditor’s report Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriThe auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report ations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainabout this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance ability report on pages 56 –85, and that it is prepared in accorwhether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. dance with the Annual Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a My (Our) examination has been conducted in accordance guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance not in accordance with the Companies Act. with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. the audit. The examination of the administration and the Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm, was appointed proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is auditor of Skanska AB by the general meeting of the shareholders based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit on March 28, 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the procedures performed are based on our professional judgment 2016. with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Stockholm March 2, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 197 Auditor’s report Independent Practitioner’s Review Report on Skanska AB’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement To Skanska AB to obtain limited assurance about whether the greenhouse gas We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the reporting is free from material misstatement. accompanying greenhouse gas reporting of Skanska AB for the A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance year ended December 31, 2019, comprising the scope 1 and 2 with ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability in the ciremissions inventory for Skanska, the scope 3 emissions inventory cumstances of Skanska’s use of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as for Skanska Sweden, Skanska UK, Skanska US Building, Skanska the basis for the preparation of the greenhouse gas reporting, US Civil and Skanska Commercial Development US (page 67–69, assessing the risks of material misstatement of the greenhouse 81) and the reporting principles (page 85) (hereafter: “Greengas reporting whether due to fraud or error, responding to the house gas reporting”) in Skanska Annual and Sustainability assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating Report 2019. the overall presentation of Skanska’s greenhouse gas reporting. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope Skanska AB’s Responsibility for the Greenhouse gas reporting than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the Skanska AB is responsible for the preparation of the greenrisk assessment procedures, including an understanding of interhouse gas reporting in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas nal control, and the procedures performed in response to the Protocol (published by the World Resources Institute (WRI) assessed risks. and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development The procedures we performed were based on our professional (WBCSD)), applied as explained in the “Greenhouse gas reportjudgment and included inquiries, observation of processes pering” in Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019. This formed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluatresponsibility includes the design, implementation and mainteing the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting nance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of a greenpolicies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. house gas reporting that is free from material misstatement, The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement whether due to fraud or error. vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, As discussed in the reporting principles (page 85) in Skanska a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level Annual and Sustainability Report 2019, greenhouse gas quantiof assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is fication is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete substantially lower than the assurance that would have been scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Skanska’s greenhouse gas reporting has been Our Independence and Quality Control prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GreenWe have complied with the independence and other ethical house Gas Protocol applied as explained in the “Greenhouse gas requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accounreporting” in Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019. tants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of Conclusion integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we ­confidentiality and professional behavior. have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control to believe that Skanska’s Greenhouse gas reporting for the year 1, ISQC 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and ended December 31, 2019 is not prepared, in all material respects, Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol applied as ­Related Services Engagements and accordingly maintains a explained in the “Greenhouse gas reporting” in Skanska Annual comprehensive system of quality control including documented and Sustainability Report 2019. policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Stockholm March 2, 2020 Our Responsibility Ernst & Young AB Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the greenhouse gas reporting based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Ingrid Cornander limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Authorized Authorized Specialist, Climate Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance EngagePublic Accountant Public Accountant Change and Sustainments on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by ability Services 198 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Major orders, investments and divestments Major orders, investments and divestments Orders Q1 2019 Skanska renovates and extends public school in Lahti, Finland, for EUR 31 M, about SEK Skanska builds tunnel in Norway for NOK 320 M. 622 M, about SEK 640 M. Skanska completes enabling work for light Skanska builds 265 rental apartments in rail expansion in Washington, USA, for USD Helsinki, Finland, for EUR 47 M, about SEK 57 M, about SEK 520 M. 480 M. Skanska builds and renovates school district in Ohio, USA, for USD 45 M, about SEK 410 M. Skanska rebuilds Jabil Inc. headquarters in St. Petersburg, USA, for USD 57 M, about SEK 520 M. Skanska upgrades industrial manufacturing facility in the Midwest, USA, for USD 88 M, about SEK 810 M. Skanska builds junior high school in Lake Oswego, Oregon, USA, for USD 69 M, about SEK 630 M. Skanska builds residential block in Helsinki, Finland, for EUR 45 M, about SEK 470 M. Skanska builds the third office building in a Q2 2019 mixed-use project in Poznan, Poland, for PLN 142 M, about SEK 340 M. Skanska builds office building in HelsingSkanska builds highway project in San Diego, borg, Sweden, for SEK 350 M. California USA, for about USD 101 M, about SEK 950 M. Skanska widens highway in California, USA, for USD 96 M, about SEK 860 M. Skanska to construct new canopy and other improvements at airport in Massachusetts, Skanska renovates Stockholm House of USA, for USD 67 M, about SEK 631 M. Culture & City Theatre in Stockholm, Sweden for SEK 550 M. Skanska signs contract for Emergency Department Expansion and Renovation in Skanska signs additional contract for manuBoston, USA, for USD 45.6 M, about SEK facturing facility in western USA for USD 48 430 M. M, about SEK 440 M. Skanska builds new foundry for Scania in Södertälje, Sweden, for SEK 600 M. Skanska develops and builds hotel in Kiruna, Sweden for SEK 500 M. Skanska builds and renovates offices for Vasakronan in Sundbyberg, Sweden, for SEK 770 M. Skanska to complete demolition and abatement of four buildings in New York City, USA, for USD 36.5 M, about SEK 350 M. Skanska to build East Midtown Greenway in New York City for USD 94 M, about SEK Skanska builds homes and offices for Aranäs 887 M. properties in Kungsbacka, for SEK 305 M. Skanska to build Center for Science and Skanska to build elementary school in Skanska builds new hotel for Fabege in Innovation at Seattle University, USA, for Auburn, Washington, USA, for USD 39M, Solna, Sweden, for SEK 470 M. USD 83.5 M, about SEK 788 M. about SEK 370 M. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 199 Major orders, investments and divestments Orders continued Skanska to build commercial office building Q3 2019 Skanska signs additional contracts for office in the City of London for about GBP 57.6 M, improvements in western USA for USD 348 about SEK 695 M. M, about SEK 3.3 billion. Skanska signs additional contract for Skanska renovates hydropower plant in corporate campus improvements in western the Österdal River, Sweden, for about SEK USA for USD 85.5 M, about SEK 790 M. 320 M. Skanska builds a subsection of Bergen Light Skanska builds clinical care building in Rail in Norway, for about NOK 982 M, about Brookline, USA, for USD 40 M, about SEK SEK 1 billion. 380 M. Skanska to build an encapsulation plant Skanska builds hospital in King of Prussia, in Olkiluoto, Finland, for about EUR 45 M, USA, for USD 186 M, about SEK 1.7 billion. about SEK 472 M. Skanska builds 168 apartments in Oslo, Norway, for NOK 344 M, about SEK 370 M. Skanska builds multifamily house and senior care home in Gothenburg, Sweden, for SEK 330 M. Skanska to expand Harbor line at Hisingen, Gothenburg, Sweden, for SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska builds schools in Baltimore, USA, for USD 88 M, about SEK 820 M. Skanska builds foundation for submarine Skanska builds student apartments for manufacturing facility in Connecticut, USA, SGS Studentbostäder in Gothenburg, for for USD 89 M, about SEK 840 M. SEK 385 M. Skanska announces order cancellation Skanska to construct new entrance to in Seattle, USA, for USD 33 M, about SEK Pennsylvania Station in New York City, USA, 310 M. for USD 119 M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska to rehabilitate roadway in the Northeast United States for USD 114 M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska signs additional contract for corporate office improvements in western USA for USD 51.1 M, about SEK 481 M. Skanska signs contract for new data facility Skanska builds residential apartments in in western USA for USD 69 M, about SEK Nashville, USA, for USD 74 M, about SEK 649 M. 690 M. Skanska renovates offices building in Oslo, Skanska renovates new University of Norway, for about NOK 637 M, about SEK Cincinnati College of Law in Cincinnati, USA, 695 M. for USD 32 M, about SEK 300 M. Skanska signs additional contract for manufacturing facility in western USA for USD 35 M, about SEK 330 M. 200 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Major orders, investments and divestments Orders continued Q4 2019 Skanska reconstructs major interchange in Skanska upgrades Junction 6 of the M42 in New York City, USA, for USD 290 M, about Birmingham, UK, for GBP 143 M, about SEK SEK 2.7 billion. 1.7 billion Skanska carries out excavations for wasteSkanska builds The Heming, a multifamily water treatment plant in Tampere, Finland, development project in Tysons, USA for USD for EUR 60 M, about SEK 630 M. 150 M, about SEK 1.4 billion. Skanska builds new surgery and clinic center in Atlanta, USA, for USD 113 M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska builds health and human services building at University in New Haven, USA, for USD 48 M, about SEK 450 M. Skanska builds addition to Spaulding Hall at the University of New Hampshire in Durham, Skanska builds new specialist hospital in Skanska constructs shopping center in USA, for USD 32 M, about SEK 300 M. Gothenburg, Sweden, for SEK 1.1 billion. Espoo, Finland, for EUR 170 M, about SEK 1.8 billion. Skanska builds new surgical tower in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA, for USD 207 M, Skanska builds new center for the arts in about SEK 1.9 billion. Beaverton, Oregon, USA, for USD 59 M about SEK 560 M. Skanska signs additional contract to expand airport in Portland, USA, for USD 42 M, Skanska builds new hospital pavilion in Arlingabout SEK 400 M. ton, USA, for USD 37 M, about SEK 350 M. Skanska builds new premises for Akademiska Skanska builds light rail extension in the Skanska renovates Park Hospital in Helsinki, Hus at the University of Gothenburg, State of Washington, USA, for USD 778 M, Finland, for EUR 40 M, about SEK 420 M. Sweden, for SEK 1.2 billion. about SEK 7.3 billion. Skanska builds new highway section on E16 Skanska builds advanced surgical pavilion in Skanska rebuilds school in Stockholm, in Norway for NOK 1.1 billion, about SEK 1.2 Manhasset, USA, for USD 238 M, about SEK Sweden, for SEK 430 M. billion. 2.3 billion. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 201 Major orders, investments and divestments Investments Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Skanska invests in land in downtown Houston, USA, for USD 55 M, about SEK 520 M. Q4 2019 Skanska invests DKK 585 M, about SEK 830 M, in phase two of a mixed-use project in Copenhagen, Denmark. Skanska invests EUR 65 M, about SEK 680 M, Skanska invests in land in Bucharest, Romain the third office building in a mixed-use Skanska invests DKK 160 M, about SEK 230 M, nia, for EUR 24 M, about SEK 250 M. project in Poznan, Poland. in a residential project in Hillerød, Denmark. Skanska invests USD 221 M, about SEK Skanska invests EUR 19.5 M, about SEK 208 Skanska invests SEK 420 M in a new office 2.1 billion, in The Heming, a multi-family M in land in Prague, Czech Republic. project in Malmö, Sweden. development project in Tysons, USA. 202 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Major orders, investments and divestments Divestments Q1 2019 Q4 2019 Skanska divests Norra Hamnen Kubiklager in Malmö, Sweden, for SEK 285 M. Skanska sells the office property Juvelen in Uppsala, Sweden, for about SEK 560 M. Skanska divests office property in Helsinki, Finland, for about EUR 135 M, about SEK Skanska divest office project in Malmö, 1.4 billion. Sweden, for SEK 430 M. Skanska sells multi-family development in Skanska sells its equity stake in the highway Skanska sells multi-family development in Washington, D.C., USA, for about USD 141 project Rv. 3/Rv. 25 in Norway for about NOK Boston, USA, for approximately USD 75 M, M, about SEK 1.3 billion. 30 M, about SEK 30 M. about SEK 675 M. Skanska sells care home in Gothenburg, Skanska divests logistics property in Arlanda­ Sweden, for SEK 290 M. stad, Sweden, for SEK 230 M. Q3 2019 Skanska sells office building in Budapest, Hungary, for EUR 41 M, about SEK 431 M. Skanska sells office building in Poznań, Skanska sells care home in Lahti, Finland, for Poland, for EUR 36 M, about SEK 385 M. about EUR 20 M, about SEK 210 M. Skanska divests majority interest in Bank of America Tower in Houston, USA, for USD Q2 2019 373 M, about SEK 3.5 billion. Skanska sells hotel in Kiruna, Sweden, for SEK 500 M. Skanska divests 51 Moorgate in London, UK, for about GBP 56 M, about SEK 690 M. Skanska sells 11 asphalt plants in Poland for about PLN 120 M, about SEK 300 M. Skanska divests the office building 99M in Washington, DC, USA, for USD 163 M, about Skanska divests logistics facility in HelsingSEK 1.5 billion. borg, Sweden, for SEK 240 M. Skanska sells rental apartment project in Skanska sells office property in Vantaa, FinSalem, Sweden, for SEK 270 M. land, for about EUR 30 M, about SEK 315 M. Skanska sells office building in Prague, Czech Republic, for EUR 55 M, about SEK 585 M. Skanska sells rental apartment project in Skanska divests office property in Oslo, Gothenburg, Sweden, for SEK 530 M. Norway for about NOK 1.3 billion, about Skanska sells three office buildings in Poland SEK 1.5 billion. for EUR 214 M, about SEK 2.3 billion. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 203 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors GRI Content Index Ommission/ GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments General Disclosures GRI 102: 102–1 Name of the organization Cover, Note 64 General Disclosures 2016 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and services 23–36, Note 4 102–3 Location of headquarters Note 64 102–4 Location of operations 23 102–5 Ownership and legal form 9–11, 37–45, Note 63–64 102–6 Markets served 13, 20, 23, 25–26, 29-30, 33-34 102–7 Scale of the organization 23, 83 102–8 Information on employees and other workers 83-85 102–9 Supply chain 64 102–10 Significant changes to the organization and – its supply chain 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach 56 102–12 External initiatives 56 102–13 Membership of associations 56 A selection of memberships are reported. 102–14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 4, 6, 37, 44–45, behavior 56, 81 102–18 Governance structure 37-45 102–40 List of stakeholder groups 79 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements The data is not reported at Group level. 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 79 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 79 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised 56–57, 79 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 44 statements 102–46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 79 102–47 List of material topics 57, 79 102–48 Restatements of information 85 102–49 Changes in reporting 102–50 Reporting period Januari 1, 2019 December 31, 2019 102–51 Date of most recent report March 19, 2019 102–52 Reporting cycle Annual 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding the Lena Hök, SVP report Sustainability 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Content page the GRI Standards 102–55 GRI content index 204–207 102–56 External assurance 193–198 204 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors Ommission/ UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Compact Material Topics Health and Safety GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 50–54, 59–60 Management Approach its Boundary 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 44, 50–54, components 59–60, 79 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 59–60 GRI 403: 403–1 Occupational health and safety 59 Occupational Health management system and Safety 2018 403–2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 59 incident investigation 403–3 Occupational health services 59 403–4 Worker participation, consultation, and com59 munication on occupational health and safety 403–5 Worker training on occupational 59 health and safety 403–6 Promotion of worker health 59 403–7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 59 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403–8 Workers covered by an occupational health 59, 80 and safety management system 403–9 Work-related injuries 59, 60, 80 The number of hours is not reported Ethics GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 43, 50–54, Principle 1, Human Management Approach its Boundary 63-64 rights: Businesses 2016 should support and 103–2 The management approach and its 42–45, 50–54, respect the proteccomponents 63–64, 79 tion of internationally 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 63–64 proclaimed human rights. GRI 205: 205–2 Communication and training about 63, 64, 43 Anti-Corruption 2016 anti-corruption policies and procedures Principle 2, Human rights: Businesses 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 63 Not broken down should make sure taken by employee that they are not category, business complicit in human partner or region rights abuses GRI 206: 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 63 Principle 3, Labor: Anti-competitive anti-trust, and monopoly practices Business should behavior 2016 uphold the freedom GRI 308: 308–1 New suppliers that were screened using envi64 Percentage of of association and the Supplier environmental ronmental criteria suppliers screened effective recognition assessment 2016 not reported of the right to collective bargaining. GRI 409: 409–1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 64 Forced or compulsory incidents of forced or compulsory labor Principle 4, Labor: labor 2016 Businesses should uphold the eliminaGRI 412: 412–2 Employee training on human rights policies or 63, 64 The number tion of all forms Human rights procedures of hours is not of forced and comassessment 2016 reported pulsory labour. 412–3 Significant investment agreements and con64 The number and Principle 5, Labor: tracts that include human rights clauses or definition is not Business should that underwent human rights screening reported. The uphold the effective disclosure refers abolition of child to the Supplier labor. Code of Conduct. Principle 10, Anticorruption: BusiGRI 414: 414–1 New suppliers that were screened using social 64 Percentage of nesses should work Supplier social criteria suppliers screened against corruption in assessment 2016 not reported all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 205 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors Ommission/ UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Compact Green GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 50-54, 67–72 Principle 7, Management its Boundary Environment: Approach 2016 Businesses should 103–2 The management approach and its 44–45, 50–54, support a precaucomponents 67–72, 79 tionary approach to environmental 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 67–69, challenges. 70–72, 85 GRI 302: 302–1 Energy consumption within the organization 70,81 Principle 8, Energy 2016 Environment: 302–2 Energy consumption within the organization 70, 81 Businesses should undertake initia302–3 Energy intensity 70, 81 tives to promote 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption 70, 81 greater environmental responsi302–5 Reductions in energy requirements of 70, 81 bility. products and services Principle 9, GRI 305: 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 68, 81 Evironment: Emissions 2016 Business should 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 68, 81 encourage the 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 68, 81 development and diffusion of 305–4 GHG emissions intensity 68, 81 environmentally friendly techno­ 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions 68 logies. GRI 306: 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method 70, 82 Hazardous waste Effluents and Waste is not reported 2016 GRI 307: 307–1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 82 Environmental regulations compliance 2016 Diversity and Inclusion GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 18, 50–54, 77 Principle 6, Management its Boundary Labor: Businesses Approach 2016 should uphold 103–2 The management approach and its 18, 44, 50–54, the elimination components 77, 79 of discrimination in respect of 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 64, 77 employment and GRI 405: 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 39, 77, 83–84 The age groups occupation. Diversity and Equal are not reported Opportunity 2016 GRI 406: 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 43, 63, 77 The number and Non-discrimination actions taken type of actions 2016 not reported 206 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors Ommission/ UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Compact Sustainable industry GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 4, 50–54, 72, 85 Management Approach its Boundary 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 4, 42–45, components 50–54, 72, 85 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 4, 45, 72, 85 Skanskas Own SoD-1 Value of certifed commercial buildings 4, 72, 85 Disclosure Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 207 Quarterly information Quarterly information In accordance with IFRS 2019 2018 SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings 49,028 34,903 34,621 27,266 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 Proﬁt/loss Revenue 50,691 42,466 42,574 37,115 50,478 43,084 43,502 34,666 Cost of sales –44,780 –39,069 –38,563 –34,128 –45,146 –40,028 –40,014 –32,277 Gross income 5,911 3,397 4,011 2,987 5,332 3,056 3,488 2,389 Selling and administrative expenses –3,206 –1,924 –2,183 –2,156 –2,446 –2,358 –2,164 –2,505 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 62 138 138 253 177 218 61 399 Operating income 2,767 1,611 1,966 1,084 3,063 916 1,385 283 Interest income 32 44 44 32 43 44 37 20 Interest expense –77 –40 –74 –67 –34 –24 –26 –29 Change in fair value 6 1 –3 4 3 4 Other financial items –1 27 –12 –25 21 8 –7 Financial items –40 32 –33 –47 –16 45 22 –12 Income after financial items 2,727 1,643 1,933 1,037 3,047 961 1,407 271 Taxes –525 –298 –290 –173 –664 –128 –245 –55 Proﬁt for the year 2,202 1,345 1,643 864 2,383 833 1,162 216 Proﬁt for the period attributable to Equity holders 2,195 1,338 1,634 864 2,376 824 1,156 215 Non-controlling interests 7 7 9 7 9 6 1 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans 1,360 –1,480 –344 –431 –1058 217 279 84 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss for the period –305 314 87 70 218 –34 –106 –19 1,055 –1,166 –257 –361 –840 183 173 65 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders –739 588 138 685 –275 –292 911 955 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests –2 3 2 –1 –3 7 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –43 36 –7 18 6 47 –49 –187 Effect of cash flow hedges 79 –78 32 –2 28 62 –114 –6 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies 116 –58 –53 –46 –50 32 271 19 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt for the period –13 13 –6 –4 –3 –12 19 3 –602 501 107 653 –295 –166 1,038 791 Other comprehensive income after tax for the period 453 –665 –150 292 –1,135 17 1,211 856 Comprehensive income for the period 2,655 680 1,493 1,156 1,248 850 2,373 1,072 Comprehensive income for the period attributable to Equity holders 2,650 673 1,481 1,154 1,242 844 2,367 1,064 Non-controlling interests 5 7 12 2 6 6 6 8 Order backlog1 185,370 183,709 183,978 190,133 192,042 186,328 197,552 190,933 Capital employed 55,938 55,554 53,200 52,849 46,187 45,591 44,511 44,247 Interest-bearing receivables (+)/net debt (–) –4,917 –14,446 –11,315 –7,151 3,231 –3,717 –4,041 –1,645 Debt/equity ratio 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.3 –0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Return on capital employed, % 14.3 15.6 14.9 14.4 13.0 9.4 10.0 7.9 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 8,729 –1,603 –768 –320 7,911 748 1,044 –249 Cash flow from investing activities –1,102 156 323 –591 –568 –363 –1,031 –405 Cash flow from financing activities –2,019 288 –3,553 –1,614 –879 385 –2,158 –857 Cash flow for the period 5,608 –1,159 –3,998 –2,525 6,464 770 –2,145 –1,511 1 Refers to Construction. 208 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Quarterly information Quarterly information, continued Business streams In accordance with IFRS 2019 2018 SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 49,028 34,903 34,621 27,266 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 Total 49,028 34,903 34,621 27,266 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 Revenue Construction 42,411 40,969 40,866 35,333 42,580 40,261 40,422 34,631 Residential Development 3,489 1,901 3,063 3,416 4,580 2,632 2,502 2,492 Commercial Property Development 8,069 2,369 2,329 1,499 7,415 3,370 4,225 806 Central and eliminations –3,278 –2,773 –3,684 –3,133 –4,097 –3,179 –3,647 –3,263 Total 50,691 42,466 42,574 37,115 50,478 43,084 43,502 34,666 Operating income Construction 1,092 1,127 1,182 371 868 –310 582 –41 Residential Development 192 239 529 475 697 509 301 370 Commercial Property Development 1,712 380 179 406 1,639 782 684 398 Central –247 –81 88 –148 –142 –109 –116 –414 of which PPP sales –29 19 9 25 42 64 41 –116 Eliminations 18 –54 –12 –20 1 44 –66 –30 Total 2,767 1,611 1,966 1,084 3,063 916 1,385 283 According to Segment Reporting 2019 2018 SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 49,028 34,903 34,621 27,266 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 Total 49,028 34,903 34,621 27,266 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 Revenue Construction 42,411 40,969 40,866 35,333 42,580 40,261 40,422 34,631 Residential Development 5,292 2,384 2,666 2,141 4,120 2,453 2,282 1,884 Commercial Property Development 7,063 3,886 6,017 884 7,082 1,879 3,530 3,780 Central and eliminations –3,369 –2,725 –3,780 –3,256 –4,093 –3,256 –3,716 –3,345 Total 51,397 44,514 45,769 35,102 49,689 41,337 42,518 36,950 Operating income Construction 1,092 1,127 1,182 371 868 –310 582 –41 Residential Development 377 224 396 198 383 504 398 220 Commercial Property Development 1,267 865 1,071 84 1,281 456 472 860 Central –247 –81 88 –148 –141 –110 –114 –415 of which PPP sales –29 19 9 25 42 64 41 –116 Eliminations –36 15 –17 –8 –33 –53 28 Total 2,453 2,150 2,737 488 2,383 507 1,285 652 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 209 Annual General Meeting, Investors Annual General Meeting Investors The Annual General Meeting (the “Meeting”) of Skanska AB (publ) Calendar (the “Company”) will be held on March 26, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. CET The Skanska Group’s interim reports will be at Stockholm Waterfront Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan 4, published on the following dates: Stockholm, Sweden. Three Month Report Right to participate April 28, 2020 Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be recorded in the share register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB, the Swedish central Six Month Report securities depository on Friday, March 22, 2020 and must give notice July 23, 2020 of intent to participate to the Company no later than on Friday March 20, 2020. Nine Month Report November 5, 2020 Shareholders with nominee-registered shares held via a bank or other nominee must re-register their shares in their own name with EuroYear-end Report clear Sweden AB to be entitled to participate in the Meeting. Such February 5, 2021 re-registration, which may be temporary, should be requested from the bank or other nominee acting as trustee well in advance of, Distribution and other information March 20, 2020. The interim reports and the Annual Report can be read or downloaded from Skanska’s website Notice to participate in the Meeting may be provided: group.skanska.com/investors. By mail to Skanska AB (publ), Årsstämman c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Those wishing to order the printed Annual Report By telephone: +46 8 402 92 81 on weekdays between 9.00 and can easily use the order form found on the above 4.00 p.m. CET website, or contact Skanska AB, Investor Relations. On the Company’s website: www.group.skanska.com, under the heading “Corporate Governance/Annual General Meeting” The website also contains When giving notice, a shareholder must state name, personal identifian archive of interim reports cation number or corporate registration number, address, telephone and Annual Reports. number and, if applicable, the number of attending counsels (no more than two). Shareholders represented by proxy shall issue a written, by the shareholder signed and dated, power of attorney for the represenwww.facebook.com/skanska tative. The power of attorney may be valid for at most one year from www.linkedin.com/company/skanska the date of issue, unless the power of attorney specifies a longer period www.twitter.com/skanskagroup of validity, not to exceed five years from the date of issue. The power of attorney in the original and a certificate of registration or equivalent document of authority shall be sent to the Company at the address set If you have questions, please contact: out above well in advance of the Meeting. Shareholders who have duly Skanska AB, Investor Relations SE-112 74 Stockholm, notified the Company of their participation will receive an admission Sweden Telephone: +46 10 448 00 00 card, which shall be presented at the entrance to the Meeting venue. E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se Dividend The Board of Directors propose a dividend of SEK 6.25 (6.00) per share for the 2019 financial year. The proposal is equivalent to a regular dividend payout totaling SEK 2,572 M (2,462). The Board proposes Monday March 30, 2020 as the record date for the dividend. Provided that the Meeting approves this proposal, the dividend is expected to be distributed by Euroclear AB on Thursday April 2, 2020. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and transfers of shares to participants in the Company’s long-term employee ownership programs. 210 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Addresses Addresses Skanska AB (publ) Skanska Poland Skanska USA Building Skanska Commercial Property SE 112 74 Stockholm Aleja “Solidarności” 173 389 Interpace Parkway, 5th floor Development USA Sweden PL-00-877 Warszawa Parsippany, NJ 07054 Empire State Building Street address: Poland USA 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Warfvinges väg 25 Tel: +48 22 561 30 00 Tel: +1 973 753 3500 New York Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 www.skanska.pl www.usa.skanska.com New York 10118 www.skanska.com USA Skanska Czech Republic Skanska USA Civil Tel: +1 917 438 4514 Skanska Sweden and Slovakia 75–20 Astoria Boulevard www.usa.skanska.com SE 112 74 Stockholm Křižíkova 682/34a Suite 200 Sweden 186 00 Prague 8, Karlín Queens, New York, N.Y. 11370 Skanska Financial Services Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Czech Republic USA SE 112 74 Stockholm Customer service: Phone: +420 267 095 111 Tel: +1 718 340 07 77 Sweden +46 20-30 30 40 www.skanska.cz www.usa.skanska.com Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 www.skanska.se www.skanska.sk www.skanska.com Skanska Commercial Property Skanska Norway Skanska UK Development Nordic For other addresses: Postboks 1175 Sentrum Maple Cross House SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.com NO-0187 Oslo Denham Way Sweden Street address: Maple Cross Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Lakkegata 53 Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire www.skanska.com/property Norway WD3 9SW +47 40 00 64 00 United Kingdom Skanska Commercial Property www.skanska.no +44 (0) 1923 776666 Development Europe www.skanska.co.uk SE 112 74 Stockholm Skanska Finland Sweden PL 114 Skanska USA Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Nauvontie 18 Empire State Building www.skanska.com/property 00280 Helsinki 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Finland New York +358 20 719 211 New York 10118 www.skanska.fi USA Tel: +1 917 438 4500 www.usa.skanska.com More information about Skanska: www.group.skanska.com Annual and Sustainability Report production team: Skanska AB in collaboration with JKL Text: Skanska AB Print: Brandfactory ­Photos:Michael Lemieux, page 8, Aki Rask, page 19, Geoffrey Lyon, page 35, Christopher Villari, page 55, Andrew Parish, page 65, Synlig.no, page 71, Andrei Ivan, page 74, Staffan Andersson, page 75, other pictures Skanska Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 211 Skanska AB skanska.com Warfvinges väg 25 112 74 Stockholm Tel:+46 10-448 00 00
