Sidi Kerir Petrochemicals Co. www.sidpec.com 2020 Sustainability Report We build our Future SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS INSIDE THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT WE BUILD OUR FUTURE Part ONE This report includes SIDPEC sustainability activities starting from July 2019 to October 2020. This report is published on the UN Global Compact web site in People November 2020. Part TWO The preparation of this report depends on our level of commitment to the ten principles through four pillars of UN Global compact. All disclosures mentioned in Environment this report illustrate the alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Last report mentioned activities during 2018 and first half of 2019 was published in Part THREE 6th August 2019 (see archived reports). We appreciate your comments ,if any, and Community please email us at info@sidpec.com. CEO Foreword Dear Valued Stakeholders, On behalf of Sidpec, it's my pleasure to introduce our annual sustainability report where your comments to our progress and efforts exerted for the purpose of sustainability are more than welcome. SIDPEC has a global reach so that we are committed to the “Ten principles of UNGC” as a demonstration for our intent to act responsibly toward the community. We believe in having all our business activities aligned with the global efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the last two years, SIDPEC faced many unprecedented challenges regarding financial issues while the effective engagement with the stakeholders had great impact on the successful business continuity. During the second half of 2019, SIDPEC has faced some circumstances regarding the decrease in the prices of polymers that causes a severe interruption in the global market; in addition to the increase in energy prices and feed stock gases, and the fluctuation of the supply quantities Eng. Mohamed Ibrahim and specifications of the feed gases. However, SIDPEC is still performing based on its robust strategy to overcome such tough circumstances. In Chairman & CEO 2020, while the pandemic hit the world with huge impact on the economy worldwide, SIDPEC continued working successfully where many measures were taken to confront the COVID-19 pandemic. On the economic level, SIDPEC was able to achieve its production plan by 97% and marketing plan by 98% during the year 2019. Also, a wood technology company (WOTECH) was established in which SIDPEC shares about 28% of its capital cost, as it is considered one of the most important national projects with economic and environmental returns required to produce adhesives and wood panels from rice straw. Studies are also being prepared for the construction of facilities necessary to import the propane needed for the new projects and the ethane needed for the current production units. Our focus was not only on the economic impact, as energy efficiency aligns with our commitment towards sustainability and reducing the environmental impact of GHGs, therefore, SIDPEC is proceeding to partner with KBC company to conduct a Strategic Energy Review (SER) program for the purpose of energy efficiency improvement and economic production. SIDPEC has continued to show its responsibility towards society in various aspects. To mention some, providing consultation and technical support to a sister company, AMOC, till being ISO 50001:2018 Certified; supporting the link between academia and industry by providing a technical software license to help students and researcher in Faculty of Engineering, Zagazig University; participating in the initiative with you, Egypt is more beautiful to support people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to thank our stakeholders for their support in expanding our business. And special thanks for dear SIDPEC staff with my appreciation for spirit of cooperation, unification of efforts, pursuit of more success, and overcoming obstacles to keep SIDPEC at its usual reputable position. 1 SIDPEC Profile Strategy Our commitment to business Excellence Since 2001, SIDPEC has achieved the production and marketing plans during its years of business. The company sells part of its products in the local market and exports the rest to several countries. Since the start of production, the company has achieved sustainable high percentage of profits according to the annual financial statements. Although achieving high profits is essential to survival and growth, it is not the only parameter that reflects our commitment. Our success over a long period of time, requires taking care of all economic, legal, ethical, and discretionary responsibilities. Consequently, sustainability involves many issues, concerns, and trade-offs, which leads us to study the different needs of interested parties and societal responsibility. SIDPEC generally follows the guidelines for the Standard 26000 in this regard. It also follows the directions of several standard of management systems. Our Mission: Our core values are: To produce and market high quality Excellence, Staff development, Justice and petrochemical products within an Integrity, Team spirit, Sustainability, and integrated business system established safety. on the highest standards of ethics & integrity, an efficient staff, and best Our strategic Objectives are: updated technologies to achieve Maximize value added by increasing production capacity and adding new sustainable and profitable growth. products. Our Vision: Achieve Asset Integrity and focus on Interested Parties. Sustain leadership in the Petrochemicals’ Industry in both the international and local markets. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 2 SIDPEC Profile Strategy Achieve our strategic objectives SIDPEC establishes annual targets, and their corresponding action plans to achieve the strategic objectives, a timeline for starting and ending the action, and how the outcome will be measured and evaluated. The most important programs that implemented during last periods are stated below: 1. Preliminary works for the establishment of the PDH and PP plants. 2. Upgrade of control systems and other equipment. 3. Implementation of energy and environmental projects. 4. Provide awareness and training sessions regarding management systems. 5. Prepare to implement a process safety management. 6. Prepare leadership cadres in coordination with ECHEM. 7. Prepare for implementing an ERP system based on Oracle. 8. Use of the expertise of International Consultancy service providers in evaluating energy performance and developing opportunities for improvement. 9. Qualifying AMOC Company to comply with the ISO 50001:2018. In the light of SIDPEC strategy, it: Commits to apply the process safety and OH&S highest standards. Focuses on customers’ satisfaction by providing high quality product. Integrates environment management into its day-to-day business operations. Commits to be a good corporate citizen maintaining high ethical standards. Considers the key success factors of the strategic goals as a framework for setting and reviewing its management systems objectives to achieve competitive edge through effective risk-based thinking. Improves efficiency and productivity through implementing best practices. Strives to cultivate a culture that values knowledge learning and sharing while managing the balance between shared and protective knowledge within the expectations set for the entire workforce. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 3 SIDPEC Profile Core Market Support Petrochemicals Plan SIDPEC is the first step towards integration in petrochemicals’ industry in Egypt, and fulfilling a national objective, which is production of value-added products by using the available raw materials as well as developing related local industries. SIDPEC produces Polyethylene (HDPE & LLDPE grades) using Ethylene which is produced by the processing of Ethane/Propane feed gas. SIDPEC polymers trade name is Egyptene®, and it is one of the best well-known products in polyethylene industry worldwide as well as the local market. Film Grades Blow Molding Grades Injection Molding Grades Roto Molding Grades Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 4 SIDPEC Profile Corporate Governance Transparency & Accountability SIDPEC through its corporate governance, keens to achieve transparency and justice, grants the right of accountability to the management of the company, considering the interests of labor and workers, developing investment, maximize profits, create new jobs, maintaining minority rights and small investors. SIDPEC accounting control adopted by corporate governance by different committees like Marketing, EnMS, customer complain, safety committees…. etc., audit committees which evaluate the levels of governance applied in our business organization. Reporting of External auditors on their impartial technical opinion on the veracity and fairness of the prepared financial statements, general Assembly held annually and our existence in stock market. During General Assembly discussing the results of the fiscal year ending 2019 took place at ECHEM Headquarters, on April 21st, 2020. The assembly was headed by ECHEM Chairman and CEO Chem. Saad Helal, Eng. Abed Ezz-Alregal representing EGPC and SIDPEC’s Chairman and CEO Eng. Mohamed Ibrahim; and SIDPEC’s staff was well-prepared to held strict hygiene and safety measures in order to assure the attendees’ safe participation amid COVID-19 pandemic. Principle 10 • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 5 SIDPEC Profile Stakeholders Engagement Influence and dependability SIDPEC identifies and selects stakeholders based on their influence and dependability and who can affect or can be affected by the SIDPEC's activities and services. SIDPEC regularly engages in dialogue with stakeholders to keep up to date with stakeholders’ expectations and report the key topics and concerns that have been raised to its stakeholders. Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Neighbor Companies Suppliers/ Government Vendors Authorities Board of Managers Workers Customers Directors Surrounded Investors Community Service Providers Sources of external Engagement: Financial statements, web site, customer feedback, sustainability report and SIDPEC policy. Sources of internal Engagement: Ideas bank, services survey, sustainability awareness & messages, code of conduct, HSE competitions and HSE committees. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 6 SIDPEC Profile Ethics and Integrity Code of Conduct (COC) SIDPEC commits to encouraging a safe, supportive, and reproductive work environment through cooperative and sustainable principles of conduct and ethical behavior. We envision added human rights and social value by incorporating Social Responsibility into our activities. Our approach is built upon a holistic view, transparency, and an open dialogue with consideration to our stakeholders’ interests. We are accountable for our impact on society, the economy, and the environment with respect to the rules of law and international norms of behavior. 1Governance: 2Human Rights: Our decisions are taken in pursuit of our We believe that all employees deserve to objectives and are built upon factual Data. work in an environment where they are We gain credibility by adhering to our treated with dignity and respect. We are commitments, displaying honesty and committed to creating such an environment integrity, and reaching company goals solely because it brings out the full potential in each through honorable conduct. one, which in turn, contributes directly to our Management is responsible for demonstrating business success. through their actions, the importance of this We are an equal employment entity and are code. committed to providing a workplace that is free of discrimination of all types of abusiveness, offensiveness, or harassing behavior. Any employee who feels harassed or discriminated against should report the incident to his or her supervisor or department manager. If the employee is not satisfied that the matter has been appropriately addressed, the employee should feel free to address this issue to the company’s Chairman. We oppose child labor in our premises and among our stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 7 SIDPEC Profile Ethics and Integrity Code of Conduct (COC) 3Labor Practice: 4The Environment: We endeavor to invest in our employees by We are committed to conserve the natural providing them with the best possible skills environment, endorsing the principles of and abilities in order to develop their sustainable use and minimum impact on the individual potential to the maximum, and environment in full compliance with the thereby contribute to a sustainable success applicable laws and regulation. and competitiveness of our enterprise. We Our stakeholders should be sensitive to the provide specific training to the employees as impact of their operation on the local regards to technical aspects connected with community and cultural setting within which our processes and the field of health & safety they work and minimize any adverse effects. at the workplace as well as other relevant We encourage our stakeholders to develop aspects connected with the enterprise their own, and others’ understanding of the activities. environment protection and the behaviors that can adversely affect it. We strive to create working conditions that Within our decisions and activities, we adopt give our employees the convenient special practices that take into consideration environment to work considering the human the direct and indirect economic, social, aspects and particularly without any risk for health and environmental implications. their health and industrial hygiene. We envision ourselves in future as a zeroWe have clear recruitment and promotion liquid discharge, zero pollutants emission and criteria for all employees. Our grievance zero wasted energy company. procedures are identified, and we recognize the right for employees’ representation to participate in a transparent social dialogue. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 8 SIDPEC Profile Ethics and Integrity Code of Conduct (COC) 5Fair Operating Practices: 7-Community Involvement and We prohibit corrupt or non-ethical practices. development: We investigate all reported instances of We consider ourselves as an integral partner questionable or unethical behavior and take of the community in approaching educational appropriate actions that prevent such development projects. unethical behavior in the future. Our We provide continuous contributions to the commitment to integrity begins with surrounding communities to promote higher complying with laws, rules, and regulations. levels of well-being in these communities. We provide employment opportunities for our We are dedicated to ethical, fair, and vigorous surrounding community either directly competition. We sell our products based on through us or indirectly through our their superior quality, functionality, and subcontractors. competitive pricing. We never cease to invest tremendously on our We respect the property right of others. We do community health care projects. not acquire or seek to acquire improper means We support research and development of a competitor’s proprietary or confidential projects in cooperation with governmental information. institutions and universities. 6Consumer Issues: We are keen to provide products, which achieve our customers’ satisfaction. We provide our customers with fair and transparent information of our products. We review our customers’ complaints and improve practices in response to them. We offer adequate and efficient support and advice system for our customers. We always take adequate measures to protect our customer health, safety, and business. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 9 SIDPEC Profile Economic Performance Process Efficiency linkage New investments During the year 2019, a wood technology company was established (WOTECH), in which SIDPEC contributes 28% of its capital cost, amounting 65 million euros, and has paid 10% of the capital cost. This project is considered one of the most important projects adopted by the MOP and ECHEM during the current stage to achieve its desired returns at the economic and national level to produce adhesives and medium and high-density wooden plates produced from rice straw. SIDPEC has previously participated in the acquisition of the Petrochemical Logistics Services (PLS) Company to complete its needs of imported gases and export some of its production abroad, and it is currently preparing the necessary studies to determine the investment cost for the construction of the pier and spheres to import propane gas for the polypropylene project and to provide ethane gas to fill the deficit in the quantities supplied from GASCO. This ensures that the SIDPEC can operate at the maximum design capacity and reaches the optimal ratio of financial leverage. Future Extension SIDPEC has previously purchased licenses for a propylene (PDH) and polypropylene (PP) projects. In this context, SIDPEC proceeds with the necessary procedures for the purpose of selecting general contractors for these projects and their necessary utilities by offering tenders and providing the necessary financing. Value Added SIDPEC has succeeded in changing the bagging lines for the polyethylene product without affecting the production and marketing processes. SIDPEC continued to provide the needs of CO2 Air Liquide recovery and liquefaction unit with a BOO system without incurring any costs, which has a great impact on reducing carbon emissions, improve the economies and increase revenues. SIDPEC continued to integrate its side products with ETHYDCO, which had a great effect of increasing the production of the LPG unit, operating it at full capacity, and increasing revenues. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 10 SIDPEC Profile Financial Performance SIDPEC was able to provide the needs of the local market for ethylene and polyethylene products and export the surplus abroad to provide foreign currencies to meet the its needs and support the national economy despite the collapse of the global selling prices of final products and the increase in supply. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Sales for Ethylene Sales for Polyethylene Sales for LPG Sales for Naphtha % of Target % of Target % of Target % of Target 35 86% 219 98% 50 250% 6 59% 1000 Ton 1000 Ton 1000 Ton 1000 Ton Sales for Polyethylene Local Markets Sales for Polyethylene Foreign Markets Sales for Ethane Sales for Butene-1 % change FY 2018 % change FY 2018 105 0.96% 114 4.5% 201 5,083 1000 Ton 1000 Ton Ton Ton Highlight % CHANGE % CHANGE % CHANGE -14% -63% -63% % CHANGE % CHANGE 9% 3% Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 11 SIDPEC Profile Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 12 SIDPEC Profile Spending Rationalization Confronting COVID-19 Pandemic In light of the keenness of SIDPEC to face challenges and overcome obstacles to maintain its leadership and achieve its goals in accordance with a clear direction and aligned with the strategies and directives of the MOP, and ECHEM and Egypt's Vision 2030, SIDPEC has since its inception placed the on its list of priorities to rationalize consumption and expenditures without prejudice to the governorate on assets and achieving marketing and production plans through adopting systems, mechanisms and programs concerned with sustainability, raising efficiency and good resource management. The importance of rationalizing expenses has increased in recent times as SIDPEC faced some obstacles and difficulties, such as: • COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on labor, and sales market. • Decrease in the global product price, increase in supply, and the effect on new investment provisions. • High prices of feed gas, additives, and supplies. • Quantity reduction of feed gases and fluctuation of specifications. • High transportation and freight costs. • Existence of new competitors in the global and local markets. • New laws and legislations, especially in environmental protection. In its endeavor to rationalize expenses, the company has worked in three directions: • Initiatives and improvements that have extended and continuous financial impacts: It targets the periodic operations and daily activities within the company. • Previous initiatives and improvements: Targeting previous projects that have resulted in lower costs. • Measures that have been planned or started to be implemented according to the new implications: It targets future projects, purchases and all initiatives that have been developed to meet new challenges in 2020. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec PEOPLE PART ONE INSIDE THIS PART Section 1 Health and safety Section 2 Workforces “We constantly OUR APPROACH assess the SIDPEC human resources are the driving force for its success. SIDPEC foremost responsibility is to provide its staff with all the tools and skills effectiveness of HR to accomplish its business plan and objectives. services and build SIDPEC Strives to cultivate a culture that values knowledge learning employee loyalty.” and sharing while managing the balance between shared and protected knowledge within the expectations set for the entire workforce. 13 Part One People PEOPLE PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Workforces at end of 2019 Working Without any injuries in 2019 Suggestions posted till now % change FY 2018 1,105 4.1% 2.9 522 Employees M Hours Ideas No. of SIDPEC Trainees in 2019 Petromaint trainees on 5S and EnMS Online Training in 2020 (due to COVID-19) % of Total 671 61% 46 69 Employees Workers Employees Highlight What we did? What we are doing? Issue “life-saving rules” for employees. Unifying all HR data into ERP database. Organize “Safety week”. Improve Process Safety Management (PSM). Get new edition of ISO 45001 standard. Raise awareness on QEHSE systems remotely. Execute hiring and training plans. Maintaining blood sugar level for labors. Enhance annual Evaluation criteria of labors. Upgrade the necessary equipment and systems Launched several leadership development Take precautionary measures to confront programs. COVID-19. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 14 Health and Safety Health and Safety Systems Safety Precautions SIDPEC develops effective health and safety measures at the focus of its interests so that it complies with all required standards, defines safety responsibilities for all individuals, and periodically monitors all activities carried out on operations to ensure a safe work. SIDPEC is working on the periodic update of our emergency plan, training personnel, assessing the response time to emergencies at work and their knowledge of assembly points at evacuations. All workplaces are periodically inspected to ensure that there is a suitable and comfortable work environment for individuals. In line with the COVID-19 pandemic, SIDPEC has developed several special precautions for workers, especially those with chronic diseases. 2019 Highlight 49 Test Performed Fire Drills Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 15 Health and Safety Protective Equipment and Training Effective Training SIDPEC periodically updates the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) procedures, which ensures that all workers are supplied with the necessary protective equipment and even implement training processes on it and the importance of using it to ensure that they perform their work safely. SIDPEC keens to provide classroom and practical training and/or awareness programs on safety procedures and fire fighting for all labors, including general contractors like Petromaint and other executive contractors, the necessary training to ensure that the work is performed safely. Online training is provided due to COVID-19 pandemic. About 30 workers from Petromaint have been trained on fire fighting and 12 drivers trained on safe driving. 2019 Highlight 545 Employees Trained on HSE programs Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 16 Health and Safety Employee Involvement Accident/Incident investigation SIDPEC established a Safety Committee and Subcommittees in which workers’ representatives can attend and give advice on issues related to health and safety. Health and/or safety accidents (if any) and the results of the investigation are discussed, the root causes are identified, the measures taken to prevent their recurrence, in addition to the procedures regarding the “Accident Investigation Report”, the hours lost as a result of injury or illness compared to the total working hours. All workers can issue “Near miss report” regarding all potential risk that can affect the safety conditions in which these risks are investigated and the suitable actions to be considered to eliminate the risk. SIDPEC’ CEO heads all managers and labors to take regular walk throughs through the sites to follow up the safety procedures and highlights the need to continue to adhere to safety regulations and provide a safe work environment. 2019 Highlight 2,899,304 Hr. Without any injuries Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 17 Workforces Hours, Wages and Leave Obey laws and standards SIDPEC complies with local laws and standards regarding the rights of labors regarding working hours, wages, and leave. Required working hours is in accordance with the law depending on either daily or shift basis (40-48 per week) considering overtime when needed. Suitable wages for normal living are provided and paid regularly. Each labor is provided with paid vacation, sick leave, and maternity leave per child for female employees. In line with the precautionary measures taken by the Ministry of Petroleum to confront the novel COVID-19 pandemic, SIDPEC has committed itself to reduce the work capacity to about 50% day time workforce, while granting the rest exceptional leave, by reciprocity, workers with chronic diseases and female workers with children under 12 years of age have been granted exceptional paid leave. 2019 Highlight 1,105 Employees Workforces at end of 2019 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 18 Workforces Medical Care Confronting COVID-19 SIDPEC formed a “Crisis Committee” from all departments to take the necessary measures towards confronting the repercussions of the Corona virus, and the following decisions have been taken: • Organize an intensive campaign to sterilize and disinfect all administrative buildings, trasportation means, and production sites. • Conduct awareness sessions among all workers to prevent the speed of corona virus in the work place. • Develop the instructions of wearing a mask to preserve public health and be available to all workers periodically, in addition to all disinfectants. • Measure the temperature of all workers and visitors upon entering the company. • Carry out the procedures followed in case of suspicion or confirmation of an employee being infected with the disease. • Establish instructions for holding meetings, monitor the preparation of workers’ meals during ramadan. Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 19 Workforces Employment Status Enhance labor practices SIDPEC keens to deal with all employees through a contract before starting their work based on the competent, and qualification suitable to the assigned as described in job description with a definite responsibility towards assigned tasks, HSE, and quality systems and it is not allowed to use child labor among its employees or its contractor. SIDPEC develops the procedures regarding employment, promotion, and training based on unbiased criteria and are not related to any of the discriminatory characteristics and disabled persons can obtain employment opportunities in SIDPEC. SIDPEC’s policy focuses on increasing employees’ skills and abilities and how to buy-in to obtain their positive contributions to improve business operation through their ideas, surveys, and suggestions through “SIDPEC Ideas Bank (SIB)”. SIDPEC developed retirement plans including social insurance, additional pension, and retirement reward to increase the involvement and loyality of the employees. SIDPEC avoids all forms of forced or compulsory labor as all wages, bonuses, and overtime hours are paid on a regular basis. All employees can leave once they have finished their working time and they have access to leave during working time with a suitable permission. SIDPEC’s workplace is free of all types of discrimination and any employee who feels discriminated against should report the incident. 2019-2020 Highlight 522 Ideas posted till October 2020 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 20 Workforces Honoring Workers Celebration for the promoted employees Under the patronage of SIDPEC’ Chairman, a celebration for the promoted employees was held to highlight the SIDPEC's role in honoring employees for their efforts and achievements to enhance the production processes. Celebration for children with an academic and sports excellence Under the patronage of SIDPEC’ Chairman, a ceremony was held to honor employees’ children with an academic and sports excellence for the year. This celebration is to encourage young people to move forward for the better in their scientific career, which will serve our beloved country Egypt because the strong state is the one that has a strong and educated human resources. Ceremony for Retired workers SIDPEC’ Chairman honored the employees that retired during the year. Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 21 Workforces Training and Education Provide online training services Remote learning has become a new method for seeking knowledge that the whole world uses to resume studying at different levels in light of the continuing pandemic of the new Corona virus, COVID-19 , and this method that relies on technology and the Internet aims to provide knowledge to learners while preserving them from the risk of infection with the Corona virus or infecting others. SIDPEC conduced (4) awareness sessions in 2020 by (remote training) on quality and energy management systems for (69) employees through the use of an online program that contributes to increasing communication between the trainees and the lecturer, either by writing comments or organizing a live meeting while providing the necessary scientific material and videos. 82 Programs in 2019 671 Trainees in 2019 4 Online During one of conducting online meetings in 2020 Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 22 Workforces Training and Education Training of Maintenance General Contractor SIDPEC keens to share knowledge, spreads the idea of continuous improvement and develops the culture of workers who are working on behalf of SIDPEC in maintenance processes. In this context, SIDPEC provided (5) lectures on the 5S methodology and principles of energy management system to (46) of PETROMAINT workers and provide a practical demonstration through the site visit to the Ethylene electrical workshop to actually notice the 5S implementation. 2019 Highlight 46 Workers Trained on 5S and EnMS Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec ENVIRONMENT PART TWO INSIDE THIS PART Section 1 Precautions Section 2 Responsibility and Performance Section 3 Technology “We don’t take any OUR APPROACH steps that would SIDPEC Integrates environment management into its day-to-day business operations through minimizing GHGs emissions, water have any negative effluences and solid wastes, achieving the responsible use of natural resources, purchasing, and using high energy efficiency products and impact on the services and supporting design for energy performance improvement. environment.” SIDPEC ensures compliance with the local laws, regulations and standards related to environmental protection. 23 Part Two: Environment ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Electricity Saving since 2015 Electricity Saving since 2015 Electricity Saving since 2015 % from Annual Baseline 10.3 5.3% 7.3 5.6 1000 MWh M EGP 1000 tCO2 Energy Awareness since 2015 Treated Waste Water Disposed Waste % of Total 765 73% 1.2 73 Empolyees M Cubic Meter Ton Highlight What we did? What we are doing? Conduct Environmental issues review. Perform energy efficiency projects. Issue EIA for new PDH and PP projects. Start to conduct strategic energy review with KBC. Connect crackers stacks on the National Continuous monitor of emissions and wastewater Monitor emissions by installing the Continuous specifications. Emission Measurement System (CEMS). Acquire the certificate of new edition of ISO Reduce emissions from the polyethylene 50001 standard. incinerator (reduce run time to 400 hrs. p.a). Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 24 Precautions Precautionary approach Scientific Research Support SIDPEC participated in “EGYPS 2020” which is the largest oil & gas conference and exhibition across Egypt, North Africa and the Mediterranean which was held in Egypt International Exhibition Centre during 11-13 February 2020. SIDPEC submitted TWO papers during the Technical Conference and cemented its presence with a stand in the exhibition. First submitted paper was “Solar Heat Integration in Industrial Processes (SHIP)”. The objective of that paper is to outline renewable technologies to encourage the significant energy uses companies to use it instead of conventional energy use. Also, it demonstrates the research carried out in this field in Egyptian companies and the economic returns of that application. Our paper focused on the previous application of SHIP technology in Egypt and its economic studies, and the importance of MOP to support further research works in this area financially for the processes heating applications. The most important initiatives for submitting this paper during EGYPS 2020 is that SHIP process provides up to 50% saving of energy cost used in industrial heating processes, reducing the dramatic impact of the rising energy prices, reducing production costs, increasing the competitiveness in different markets, securing a sustainable source of energy, minimizing the impact on climate change and reducing carbon emissions. “In Egyptian Petroleum Sector, total energy consumption estimated with about 5.23 MM TOE in which 81 % of this consumption is regarding to Natural gas. About 25 companies consumes about 92 % of total energy petroleum sector” Principle 7 • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 25 Precautions Precautionary approach Scientific Research Support Second submitted paper was “Influence of Poly (butylene succinate) and Calcium Carbonate Nano-particles on the Biodegradability of Eco-friendly High DensityPolyethylene Nanocomposites”. The aim of this research is to highlight the creation of innovative types of the green petrochemical products using the natural biobasedbiodegradable materials and Nanotechnology to promote the sustainable development in our companies and the preservation of the environment. The main problem is the accumulation of plastics, in other word the plastic pollution (silent killer). SIDPEC lab staff prepared the Nanocomposites on lab-scale at the Polyethylene Research “Solving the plastic pollution problem lies in reshaping the Laboratories. traditional non-biodegradable The biodegradation property of the products was plastics with partially and proved statistically around 55 years for 100% completely biodegradable and product degradation instead of more than 600 bio-based polymer products” years that make it a partially biodegradable product. The mechanical, thermal, and physical properties improved compared to the neat HDPE which would represent a satisfaction to both customers and producers. All these results based on lab-scale are considered a beginning of the industrial research that can develop bio-based/biodegradable polymer grades out of the traditional nonSpeaker: Ch. Kareem Mahmoud-SIDPEC biodegradable HDPE. During the session This research has been published recently in the Journal of Polymer Research, Springer Nature Principle 7 • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 26 Responsibility and Performance Energy Performance and Climate Change Energy Efficiency SIDPEC believes that Sustainable energy is required for social development and economic growth and therefore, its efforts focus on how energy contributes to achieve economic growth and ensure sustainability for future generations. Therefore, SIDPEC achieves annual energy objective to improve its energy efficiency and performance using EnMS as a systematic approach to achieve sustainable development goals regarding the climate change to reduce environmental impact. Since 2015 till 2020, SIDPEC achieved about 5.3 % cumulative savings in energy consumption; this is equivalent to about 7.3 M EGP and reduction in GHGs emissions of about 5,622 tCO2. 2019-2020 Highlight 5.6 ktCO2 GHGs emission reduction Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 27 Responsibility and Performance Energy Performance and Climate Change KBC – SIDPEC SER Project Since SIDPEC has obtained the ISO 50001 certification in 2014, some technical obstacles have emerged that prevent the achievement of the desired objectives of improving energy efficiency in various production units. As a result of the recent changes in profits, and considering that energy expenditures constitute a great value that is characterized by the possibility of controlling it by taking some technical measures necessary to save energy consumption, and since the usual means have been exhausted, it is necessary to use modern scientific tools and software to simulate operational processes. SIDPEC has confirmed that KBC (Yokogawa Company) has the specialized experience and is distinguished by providing the necessary software as well as the required technical expertise, and this makes it the ideal choice for carrying out technical studies in order to achieve the targeted savings in the fastest time. On 18th October 2020, KOM with KBC was conducted to execute “SIDPEC strategic Energy Review – SER Project” to perform required benchmark, identify the gaps, and develop the opportunities for improvement. SIDPEC engaged the employees to participate in this project by organizing a workshop describing the project benefits and objectives. Eng. Mohamed Ibrahim, Chairman and CEO Project Manager: Dr. Mohamed Salaheldin During the KOM and project team during KOM Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 28 Responsibility and Performance Energy Performance and Climate Change Spirax Sarco – Steam Systems Services SIDPEC has the long-term objective “Steam System Management Program” in place, but the first step and short-term objective is “Steam System Optimization” at the Ethylene plant, by performing Steam Trap survey to generate the necessary data and recommendations to discuss the next steps to implement. Spirax Sarco, one of the companies working in the field of steam systems demonstrated its technical support to SIDPEC and it was able to address the issues regarding steam network optimization. This encouraged SIDPEC to sign a service agreement with Spirax Sarco started in March 2020 to perform “Steam and Condensate Network Audit”. The scope of work focuses on the following: • Comprehensive audit of entire steam network and facility processes” • Compare the installations of steam and condensate network with best practice guidelines. • Study the improvement of the steam distribution and condensate returns piping condition and design. • Identify and eliminate sources of vibration, water hammering and associated problems for steam and condensate network. • Engineering Review on condensate recovery, and areas of improvements. • Inspecting insulation installations throughout the steam system network. • Steam traps survey. Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 29 Responsibility and Performance Energy Performance “The driver for the transition to ISO 50001:2018 depends on its requirements and Climate Change which provide systemic process Case Study: ISO 50001:2018 Transition focusing on the continual improvement in the energy performance” When the new edition of the standard Road Map (ISO 50001:2018) was issued on 21thAugust 2018, SIDPEC took a decision at the end of Transition Journey 2018 to perform the transition process and Establish energy objective (Transition to update the certificate during 2019 plan). considering an earlier renewal of the certificate to keep its pioneering position in Create innovative design of gap analysis EnMS. template. Actions taken to close any identified gaps and the associated amendment of documented information when required. Conduct internal audit based on ISO 50001:2018. Provide ISO 50001:2018 internal audit training (two runs) by two national experts in EnMS from SIDPEC. Communicate the new requirements within the organization. Acquisition of ISO 50001:2018 certificate in December 2019. Conduction of internal Audit training as a part of transition plan Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 30 Responsibility and Performance Keys to success “Our successful transition achieved by commitment Tips for successful transition from all levels in SIDPEC and by the integration of EnMS Commitment – Top management is into business practices” convinced with the EnMS. Integration of EnMS into our business processes. Reference implementation – Perform two previous transitions; ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015. Energy Team – High qualified and great experience of EIGHT National Experts in EnMS from SIDPEC. Review – Systems, policies, procedures, and business processes are in place. Staff – Engage our staff begins with buyin, prepare them as internal auditors. A marathon not a sprint – It is not a project, but it can be considered as a process management approach not only Receiving the Award of Merit from to continually improve energy External Auditor in Oct. 2019 performance but also to establish business excellence. Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 31 Responsibility and Performance Water and Wastewater Water Treatment SIDPEC is provided with raw water from the Nubaria Canal, and annual quantities of water are obtained with permission from the Drinking Water Authority. The effluent industrial water is treated, the specifications and quantities of water are monitored and adjusted before being discharged to the external drains. The production units and water treatment units are also designed to reuse and recycle water in various processes to reduce water consumption. The best and recent chemical technologies are used to treat raw water, boiler water and desalination water focusing on reducing the rates of waste and drainage on water bodies. Among the initiatives undertaken by SIDPEC during this year, is to replace the osmotic membranes to reduce the salt passage percentage in the water effluent from RO unit. SIDPEC proceeds in installing continuous monitoring sensors on the final treated drainage to be linked to the national network for wastewater monitoring. 2019 Highlight 1.2 M M3 Of treated Wastewater Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 32 Responsibility and Performance Waste Management Waste Disposal SIDPEC manages waste through a “waste management procedure” whereby it has the necessary permits to handle and dispose the waste to licensed contractors to transport, recycle, treat, and dispose of hazardous waste. SIDPEC monitors the types and quantities of waste produced, including where and how waste is recycled, treated, or disposed of. The company provides training to workers on safe handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of all types of waste. SIDPEC defines areas where waste is stored, and labels the containers, including the related sign for hazardous waste hazard. During 2019, SIDPEC signed a contract with an approved entity to receive spent caustic from ethylene plant instead of disposing it to industrial wastewater ponds, which led to an improvement in the analysis of industrial wastewater samples. 2019 Highlight 73 Ton Of disposed waste Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 33 Responsibility and Performance Air Pollution Control and monitor the Emissions SIDPEC monitors all types and quantities of emissions from thermal crackers and boilers and ensures that limits comply with environmental laws. SIDPEC controls the flue gases getting from the stacks by ensuring the specs of fuel used, complete the burning process. Preparation for activities regarding connection of the boilers and cracker heaters’ stacks to the national network for monitoring industrial emissions of flue gases. Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 34 Responsibility and Performance Noise Control Noise Measurement According to several laws, SIDPEC Noise measurement is performed in all sites once every 3 months. During the year 2019, the average exposure to noise in different factories was calculated in each unit separately. In the case of areas with higher limits, workers are required to wear protective equipment and adhere to the allowed time according to the law. There are warning signs in the various places where there is a loud noise to wear the protective ear plug. Coordination takes place between all departments to control and monitor the sources that cause noise increase. 2019 Highlight 17 Reports Measure noise sources Principle 8 • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 35 Technology Environmentally friendly technologies Best Available Technologies SIDPEC keens to use environmentally friendly technologies when procuring any motors or lighting fixtures, like IE3 motor types and LED fixtures. From another perspective, SIDPEC’ processes are designed depending on thermal energy recovery, and recycling of water. SIDPEC gets the environmental approval from the Environmental Affairs Agency on the type (C) Environmental Impact Assessment study for an NEW project to establish propylene and polypropylene plants. 2019 Highlight 462 tCO2 GHGs emission reduction Principle 9 • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec COMMUNITY PART THREE INSIDE THIS PART Section 1 Knowledge Sharing Section 2 Community Engagement Section 3 Training and Education Section 4 Social Partnership Section 5 Social Contribution “We prioritize our OUR APPROACH programs in line Our annual agenda includes a series of campaigns, activities, programs, and awareness-raising, humanitarian and volunteer with the strategic initiatives that benefit the local community or contribute to improving people's lives in one way or another. We are dedicated to perpetuate objectives of social the principle of continuity and sustainable impact by establishing a responsibility.” consistent program of community, charities, volunteer, and humanitarian activities, and periodically evaluate, develop, and expand their impacts. 36 Part Three Community COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Knowledge Sharing on EnMS New Edition Participated in EGYPS 2020 Summer Training in 2019 No. of Companies Total from 2014 (Students) 19 8 2 328 1,854 Participants Submitted Papers Students Social Contribution in 2019 Disability Challengers Training in 2020 Scientific Research in 2020 Total from 2014 (M EGP) 10.2 51 40 10,000 M EGP Particpants US$ Highlight What we did? What we are doing? Participate in “Blood Donation” initiative. AMOC get ISO 50001:2018 Certificate. organize “Community Consultation Session” for Participate in Initiative with you, Egypt is more new PDH and PP projects. beautiful . organize the “Orphan Day” attended by 1200 Encourage under/Post Graduate Students by children. donate a software license. Permanent donations and charities for our Participate in “Pro Girls 2020” program to develop community. the skills of students from 16 to 18 years. Start cooperation with AMOC to get on EnMS. Host a meeting with ECHEM and other companies Sharing our EnMS knowledge with our partners. to discuss COVID -19 precautionary measures. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 37 Knowledge Sharing EnMS Implementation Knowledge Case Study: Technical Support and Training Provision to AMOC to get ISO 50001:2018 Certificate As a continuity of SIDPEC’s success demonstrated and its vision that achieved during peer to peer network within the petrochemicals sector supported by UNIDO IEE project, and as its reputation in its experience in the implementation of EnMS, SIDPEC keened to exploit the highest level of success to replicate it to other national companies. In support of the principles of sustainable development that include access to clean energy and partnership in combating climate change, as well as the principles of quality that emphasize the strengthening of relations with interested parties, SIDPEC took an opportunity to transfer their knowledge and expertise in the implementation of EnMS to the staff of “Alexandria Mineral Oils Company – AMOC”. As usual, the services provision of this rehabilitation considered closely monitored phases that ensure that the staff are technically qualified, and the EnMS implementation is on the track to be complied with ISO 50001:2018. Highlights 16 30 Training Days Trainees 11 15 Site Visits Internal Audits Kick off Meeting held in AMOC Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 38 Knowledge Sharing EnMS Implementation Knowledge Case Study: Technical Support and training Provision to AMOC to get ISO 50001:2018 Certificate During the Kick-off meeting, SIDPEC Implementation Process described the road to implement EnMS starting from the formation of our EnMS Consultancy Approach by Sidpec team, established policy and implementation phases. Form EnMS cross-functional team. Establish energy policy incorporated into The rehabilitation process consisted of AMOC policy. training provision and technical support Provide half-day training session to top during all EnMS implementation phases. management staff held in AMOC. Provide 2 days user training session to EnMS team held in AMOC. Conduct TWO site tours to determine the opportunities for improvement. Provide planning and implementation phases training session (3 days) to EnMS team held in SIDPEC. Sidpec Team during site tour in AMOC Provide SIX awareness sessions for the rest of the staff held in AMOC. Provide checking phase online training session to EnMS team. Conduct internal audit based on ISO 50001:2018 for (15) sites. In addition to NINE site visits and remote work focused on the establishment of the system. Training session held in SIDPECPlanning Phase Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 39 Knowledge Sharing EnMS Implementation Knowledge Case Study: Technical Support and training Provision to AMOC to get ISO 50001:2018 Certificate Business Benefits Keys to success The acquisition of ISO 50001:2018 Strong commitment from CEO. certificate represents a proactive look at Strong internal communication between what the European Union standards may EnMS team. require in the future regarding dealing with Provide training sessions to the EnMS entities that have a distinguished activity in team in the different stages of EnMS energy efficiency. implementation and awareness sessions Elimination of the barriers between the to the rest of the staff. production plants staff as a result of the Implementation of other management cross-functional team building. systems like ISO 9001,14001 and 18001. This appeared in an energy project suggested by EnMS team, which suggests the stopping of diesel oil circuit and restarting it again when needed. This circuit has been operated for more than 20 years, but as the culture of staff has changed with high level of commitment and communication, they succeeded to execute that opportunity. “We believe that the potential benefits could be achieved if a commitment to continuous improvement becomes an During honoring the SIDPEC TEAM integrated part of the company’s culture and day-to-day behavior” By AMOC CEO Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 40 Knowledge Sharing EnMS Transition Knowledge Transfer our experience in EnMS In January 2020, SIDPEC hosted the quarterly meeting for the energy efficiency departments of ECHEM and its affiliated companies, with the aim of periodically following up on future energy activities, plans and projects, and discussing ways of cooperation and integration in the fields of energy efficiency improvement. During the meeting, SIDPEC submitted a presentation that included its experience about the transition of EnMS ISO 50001 from 2011 to 2018 new edition. We demonstrated the key changes of 2018 edition compared with 2011 one, our transition journey, tips for successful transition, Challenges, and lessons learnt. SIDPEC, as one of the leading companies in the field of EnMS implementation, it believes that its societal responsibility necessitates it to transfer the knowledge and experience that it has gained in this field to the peer companies. Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 41 Community Engagement Rehabilitation of the disability challengers Initiative with you, Egypt is more beautiful Within the framework of launching 2019 to be a year for people with special needs through President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, which placed responsibility on all parties to provide all attention to this group. In November 2019, SIDPEC participated in the last program regarding the prelaunch initiative with you, Egypt is more beautiful , which aims to create the appropriate atmosphere to achieve maximum benefit for trainees with special needs, and provide them with job opportunities in the private sector to provide a decent life, in addition to finding small projects for them. SIDPEC welcomed a group of trainees from the third program of the initiative for the training and rehabilitation of the disability challengers where a simplified explanation of the production process and an awareness lecture in the field of occupational safety and occupational health. Chairman Assistant for Production and HSE During the honoring Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 42 Training and Education Scientific Research Encourage under/Post Graduate Students In the field of community service and environmental development, and within the framework of cooperation between SIDPEC and the Faculty of Engineering, Zagazig University, SIDPEC has succeeded in providing a software license for one of the most important programs in the various fields of engineering, especially in the field of fluid dynamics named “CFD Ansys – Computerized Fluid Dynamics software program solutions”. It is worth noting that the cost of this license is approximately 10,000 US$. This program will serve the college’s students in the bachelor’s and postgraduate levels in the fields of fluid mechanics and network design. Every year, SIDPEC keens to train undergraduate students on the nature of business in the petrochemical industry to qualify them for the job market. 2019 Highlight 328 Students Summer training in 2019 Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 43 Social Partnership COVID-19 Pandemic Develop the Precautionary Measures Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, Eng. Tarek El Molla, always direct to share experiences, cooperation, and coordination among the leaders of the petroleum sector, From this perspective, SIDPEC hosted in October 2020 an expanded meeting between the leaders of the ECHEM and other companies to discuss insurance plans, how to deal with reports in emergency cases, and precautionary measures to confront the COVID-19 under the patronage of Eng. Mohamed Ibrahim, Chairman and CEO. Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 44 Social Contribution Sustainable Communities Support our local neighbor’s communities SIDPEC provided several hospitals in Alexandria Governorate and the surrounding area with financial support to serve the people, considering the COVID-19 pandemic by purchasing medical supplies as well as some medical devices. For the seventh year in a row, SIDPEC signed a protocol for treating incapable people in Alexandria. SIDPEC rehabilitates and equips 20 houses for the residents of the surrounding villages in cooperation with the Orman association. SIDPEC donated several blind associations in Alexandria. It also supports about (81) associations in Alexandria in various religious events. For the first time, SIDPEC participates in “Pro Girls 2020” program under the auspices of the German organization “GIZ” to develop the skills of students from 16 to 18 years old in the fields of science, engineering and business administration. 2019 Highlight 10.2 M EGP Social Contribution in 2019 Principle 1 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 45 INDEX A UN Global Compact Principle Alignment UN Global Compact Principles Section Alignment Principle 1 (Human Rights): Health and safety Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Employment rights Local community Principle 2 (Human Rights): Local community Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 (Labor): Freedom of Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Association to collective bargaining. Principle 4 (Labor): Forced Labor The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 (Labor): Child Labor The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 (Labor): Discrimination The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 (Environment): Precaution Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 (Environment): Responsibility & Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Performance Principle 9 (Environment): Technology Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 (Anti-corruption): Corporate Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Governance We are committed to 10 principles of UN global compact Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 46 INDEX B Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Alignment SGD Disclosure of Alignment Social Contribution Social Contribution Social Contribution Workforce: Medical Care Noise Control Local Community: Training and Education Workforces: Training and Education Ethics and Integrity Discrimination We are aligned with the SDGs. Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 47 INDEX B SGD Disclosure of Alignment Water and Wastewater Precautionary approach Energy Performance and climate change Environmentally friendly technologies Core Markets Ethics and Integrity Transparency and Accountability Protective Equipment and Training Health and safety Systems Hours, Wages and leave Employees involvement Medical Care Employment Status Training and Education Hours, Wages and leave forced labor Ethics and Integrity Discrimination Child labor Community Engagement Precautionary approach Social Contribution Energy Performance and climate change Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec 48 INDEX B SGD Disclosure of Alignment Energy Performance and climate change Precautionary approach Ethics and Integrity Precautionary approach Energy Performance and climate change Air Pollution Environmentally friendly technologies Ethics and Integrity Precautionary approach Emergency Response Water and Wastewater Ethics and Integrity Precautionary approach Emergency Response Waste Management Justice, Transparency, Accountability Knowledge Sharing Precautionary approach Sustainability Report 2020 Sidpec KM 36 Alexandria/Cairo Desert Road El-Amerya El-Nahda Territory – Alexandria – Egypt info@sidpec.com (+203) 4770131 Further information shall be available on the web site ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
