EXTRACT OF THE 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT NFPS NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT Axway introduction & context 3 Environmental commitment: 1 Employer’s commitment: reduce our environmental impact Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Methodology note 2 Societal commitment: Certificate of disclosure by work with our stakeholders an Independent Third-Party in agreement with the Group’s ethics HR and environmental information cross-reference table NFPS Reference to the chapters or sections relating to the content of the Non-Financial Performance Statement. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Axway, Renewal of membership of the United Nations Global Compact I have the honor to confirm that Axway Software SA supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact concerning respect for human rights, international labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Axway's Corporate Social Responsibility report is based on three commitments: • Employer Commitment: attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent, • Societal Commitment: work with our stakeholders while respecting Group ethics, • Environmental commitment: reducing our environmental impact. In 2019-2020, Axway enhanced its non-financial performance statement along three lines: • To embed its three commitments in twelve of the Sustainable Development Goals -SDGsdefined by the UN, in particular those related to the development of people and talent, • To measure value creation and the impact of measures aimed at the various stakeholders through quantitative or qualitative indicators relevant to its business model and its software market, • To launch a review of actions that could help reduce its environmental impact. With this letter, I express my desire to continue our commitment to these principles through our corporate strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and to advance them in our area of influence. Patrick Donovan, CEO AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Axway introduction & context Axway’s business, offerings, risks, industry context, governance and business model are presented in the Profile section of this document. Axway’s priority Corporate Responsibility challenges The publication of Axway’s first Non-Financial Performance Statement at the beginning of 2019 enabled the Group to make progress in formalising the priority challenges of its corporate responsibility, to define relevant non-financial indicators and to propose an initial representation of its business model. All of these elements were developed within the framework of the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the UN and taking into account the Group’s risk management policy. This work involved various committees of the Board of Directors as well as Axway’s teams, both in defining the issues at stake and in collecting data. These different actors have contributed to better internal pedagogy of non-financial performance, by enriching strategic thinking on the human, societal and environmentalaspects of the Company’s vocation. With respect to risk factors, and in order to comply with the new “Prospectus 3”regulations, Axway has substantially revised its presentation of risk management by creating a new Chapter in the Universal Registration Document. A summary table sets out the most significant net risks for the Group’s business. The main risk factors for the Group are presented in decreasing order of mportance within each category, taking into account the probability of occurrence and the magnitude of the estimated negative impact. For each of the risk factors, the description of the risk is specified, explaining how it may affect the Group as well as the risk management systems. In addition, in early 2020, Axway launched a review of actions that could contribute to further reducing its impact on the environment. The three Corporate Social Responsibility commitments: 1. Employer commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent; 2. Societal commitment: Work with all our stakeholders in accordance withthe Group’s ethics; 3. Environmental commitment: Reduce our environmental impact. 02 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Axway introduction & context Industry context The main trends in the software industry in which Axway ● evolution of technologies and subscription uses; operates are described in Chapter 1.2.2 of this document. ● accelerated consumption of data and the need for analysis, Human capital and the ability to innovate are major strategic monitoring and performance of exchanges; challenges for software publishers such as Axway. These ● transformation of customer usage and the need to include: continuously measure customersatisfaction. ● in-house development of our talents and recruitment of As a result, Axway is faced with a consolidation among the new, highly sought-afterprofiles; industry's different players. ● adoption of the cloud and “as a service” demand; Axway’s business model and activity Through its software solutions, Axway helps modernise its ● a reactive operational structure supported by a healthy customers’ IT infrastructures by securely transferring, financial situation; integrating or exposing their data. ● ambitious investments in Research & Development and Axway’s business model, presented in the introductory profile Sales & Marketing; of this document, is based on several key strengths: ● balanced governance and a shareholder structure ● 1,885 employees in 17 countries serving 11,000 customers; guaranteeing an independent corporate project; ● a catalogue of recognised offers around the AMPLIFY™ ● strong ethical values, shared by an ecosystem of hybrid integration platform; stakeholders: Employees, Customers, Technology and Business Partners, Suppliers, Professional and Civil Society ● an organisation focused on customers and the success of Organisations. their transformation project; All of these factors reinforce Axway’s ambition to become an independent leader in the hybrid integration platformmarket. Governance and Corporate Responsibility tools implemented by Axway Axway’s Governance is described in Chapter 4 of this document. It is based on a distribution of powers between a Board of Directors and an Executive Committee in agreement with the recommendations of the Middlenext Governance Code to which the Group adheres. Board of Directors Executive Committee Chairman Chief Executive Officer 14 members, including 9 independent members 8 members responsible for implementing Group strategy. ● Audit Committee; ● Compensation Committee; ● Selection, Ethics and Governance Committee. In terms of ethics and corporate responsibility, the Group has implemented processes and tools shared with all of its stakeholders. Aware of the challenges relating to the environment and ecology as well as business ethics, Axway is a member of the United Nations Global Compact andhas renewed its support for this initiative every yearsince 2016. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 03 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Axway introduction & context For each stakeholder in its ecosystem, the Group adheres to indexes, labels or programmes supporting the values it wishes to promote: Corporate Responsibility tools Ethics and anti-corruption Ethics charter and Securities Trading Code of Conduct Data protection Privacy programme (1) Customer Expectations and Satisfaction Net Promoter Score NPS , Ecovadis Surveys and Measurement Employee well-being Internal surveys and Whistle-blowing System (1) Net Promoter Score: customer satisfaction measurement tool. Risk management NFPS The Group’s risk management system is described in Chapter 2 of this document. The stakeholders in the Axway ecosystem Software publication requires Axway to interact with several types of stakeholder within its ecosystem: Employees, Customers, Technology and Business Partners, Suppliers, Professional Bodies and Civil Society Organisations. The quality of relations and ethics within this ecosystem have always beencore values of the Axway Group. On the date of publication of this document, it is still difficult to estimate the future impacts of the COVID-19 global health crisis on our activities. We have adopted the government recommendations and instructions in all the countries where Axway operates and set up a governance body to monitor the crisis from a health, human resource, economic and financial perspective. We are continuing all our internal activities and business with customers, with all our employees working from home. Our internal tools, available via a secured network, are operating as normal. 04 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Axway introduction & context Summary of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility commitments, value creation and systems with its various stakeholders Sustainable Stakeholders Value Creation System/Measurements Development Goals Employees ● Attract, develop, mobilise, retain and ● Share strategic information with teams recognise talent through a clear business project ● Engagement survey ● Diversity: cultural, men/women, persons with disabilities ● Training and apprenticeship ● Quality of work life ● Constructive dialogue with Employee Representative Bodies (1) Customers ● Help Axway’s customers transform ● Ethics charter their information systems to achieve ● Customer Success organisation rapid operational benefits ● Net Promoter Score: measurement of customer satisfaction ● Ecovadis rating ● Recognition of Axway Products by Business Analysts Partners and ● Innovate and deploy joint projects ● Technology alliance partners, Managed Suppliers ● Work with our suppliers and service Services Providers, System Integrators, providers, in accordance with business Channels Partners ethics ● Ethics charter ● Satisfaction survey Shareholders ● Communicate according to best practices ● Middlenext Code of quality and transparency ● The Securities Trading Code of Conduct ● Propose digital tools to limit the exchange ● Listing on Euronext Paris of documents and encourage ● CAC Tech, Tech 400 indexes, Gaïa Rating communication ● Historical distribution rate > 30% of net income ● Annual and half-yearly analyst conferences, roadshows ● General Meeting ● Investors and shareholders Website Civil society ● Contribute to sustainable development ● Membership in the Global Compact Public Bodies goals, particularly in relation to education programme and equal opportunities ● Participation in education and social ● Innovate to serve the public programmes by associations and ● Contribute to the dynamism of the IT sector foundations in several countries ● Reduce our environmental impact ● Co-innovation of applications serving the public ● Business France: Chine ETI 2020 mission (1) France scope. EXTRACT-2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 05 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Axway introduction & context Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) selected by Axway: definitions Axway’s three Corporate Responsibility commitment – Employer, Societal and Environmental – correspond to twelve of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) definedby the United Nations: SDG 3 Good health and well-being SDG 4 Quality education SDG 5 Gender equality SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth SDG 9 Industry, innovationand infrastructure SDG 10 Reduced inequalities SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities SDG 12 Responsible consumption and production SDG 13 Climate action SDG 15 Life on land SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals 06 EXTRACT -2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent 1 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Against a backdrop of corporate transformation primarily experiences, contribute to the development of the skills of brought about by technological breakthroughs and changes in the Company and its stakeholders. The Group’s collaborative business practices and development models, one of Axway’s working method at international level fosters a commitment to major challenges is to fulfil its commitment as an employer: action, innovation and collective initiative. attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent. Working with 11,000 customers worldwide, Axway teams are A cycle of value creation takes place continuously between the attentive to new requirements on a daily basis. They share and Group’s employees and all the stakeholders in the ecosystem. develop their skills and acquire new skills, and constantly offer They learn from each other’s experiences. new uses and experiences which further enrich Axway’stalent. The men and women who work for Axway, through their cultural and geographic diversity and their diversified professional Employees committed to ethics and the environment Axway’s role revolves around the success of its customers. Company has the opportunity to strengthen the Engagement This strategic positioning and the way in which the Group of its employees. maintains relationships with its various stakeholders are Axway has always carefully considered ethical and meaningful for employees who commit with Axway. environment responsibility. The expectations that employees and candidates have of the With its employees, customers, partners and shareholders, the Company have changed over the last few years. They are Group makes ethics and trust key parts of its business particularly sensitive to the positions taken by the Group in relations, in all countries where it operates and with all its market and within its ecosystem. In this context, the its contacts. EXTRACT -2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 07 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Key figures for 2019 Workforce With nearly 1,900 employees in 17 countries around the world, Axway has confirmed its position as an international Group that acts locally for its customers, partners and in the civil society. Axway’s total workforce at 31 December 2019, including Payroll (including social security contributions) both fixed-term and permanent contracts in millions of euros 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Total workforce 1,885 1,848 1,839 Payroll 196 177 188 Workforce by geographical area Workforce by area of expertise 11% 25% Sales 28% France 40% Americas Customer Success Organisation 42% 3% R&D Asia/Paciﬁc 44% 18% Europe Support excluding France functions Stable seniority Average age: 41 The average seniority of Group employees at 31 December In 2019, the average age of Group employees was 41.2; it was 2019 is 7 years, stable compared to the seniority recorded in 40 years old in 2018 and 41.7 years old in 2017. 2018. This seniority is higher in France, 10.1 years in 2019 compared to 9.1 years in 2018; and lower (4.4 years) in Bulgaria and Romania due to higher turnover. In North Average age by geographic area America, seniority stood at 6 years in 2019. 2019 2018 2017 Europe 44.8 38.4 39.6 Americas 43.6 43.4 44.5 Asia 44.0 41.5 41.0 Greater feminisation of the workforce: A maintained commitment for the almost 29% integration of people with disabilities At 31 December 2019, women represented 28.8% of the At 31 December 2019, people with disabilities represented Group’s total workforce, compared to 28% in 2018 and 26.8% 1.5% of Axway’s employees in France. The Group was a party in 2017. This improvement reflects Axway’s commitment to to the agreement in favour of the employment of people with gender equality. disabilities, signed in February 2018 by Sopra Steria for the benefit of all companies in the Sopra Steria Economic and In France, 83% of women are in a managerial role at Axway Social Unit (ESU), of which Axway was a member until Software. At 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors 31 December 2019. comprised 6 women (43%) and 8 men (57%). Two female senior executives joined the Executive Committee in 2019 in Finance Axway has benefited from the provisions of this agreement and Human Resources roles. The Executive Committee now has and from the support of the Sopra Steria Handicap Mission to 8 members: 2 women (33%) and 6 men, including the Chief assist its employees with disabilities. Executive Officer (67%). Although Axway withdrew from the ESU agreement in 2019, the Group undertakes to continue, and in certain areas, to strengthen its commitment to people with disabilities in 2020, in accordance with the provisions contained in the 2018 agreement at the very least. 08 EXTRACT -2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent 1.1 Attract talent as diverse as the world around us The software publishing sector, by its global dimension, and through technological training courses based on the same 1.1 Key recruitment figures and actions major talent in 2019 know-how, recruits people from all continents and multiple cultures. On the other hand, gender balance in this sector has Axway recruited 308 new employees in 2019, compared to 392 always been difficult to achieve for historical reasons, the previous year. On the other hand, less employees left Axway particularly in relation to training courses. Access for people in 2019 than in 2018. Finally, more than ten former employees with disabilities who have followed a university or professional returned to Axway in 2019. computer science course is improving, albeit rather slowly. 29.2% of these new recruits are women. In terms of profiles, while the majority of Axway’s activities require technological skills such as IT systems engineering, the challenges of digital transformation also require new expertise and open up new opportunities. Engineers: profiles that are always in demand Among the new professions in the transforming software In a sector where the number of available positions is far sector are the following: higher than the demand in many countries, there is still significant competition for job offers. The European ● the digital and graphic design professions, for example for Commission estimates that there will be a shortage of product design; 756,000 employees in the digital sector in Europe in 2020. ● the professions focusing on promotion, pedagogy, consulting (Source: Talents du Numérique). and execution to accompany changes in business models to In France, three out of four companies in the sector collaborative processes and the adoption of digital tools, declare that they have had difficulty recruiting candidates through partnerships in rich and complex ecosystems. suited to the jobs they offer (source Syntec Numérique To support the transformation, Axway has strengthened its 2019). position: In 2019, Axway hired 149 new engineers/developers. ● by creating the “catalysts” team. The catalysts are a global team of experts dedicated to digital transformation through applications integration. Their role is to support businesses with their decision-making, whether relating to technology The attrition rate or “turn over” for 2019 is 17.4%, a or organisational choices, or concerning governance, positive sign compared to market averages. project financing, ecosystems, etc.; ● by opening up to partners and customers the Griffin Lab (Axway’s innovation and technological co-creation lab); for Recruitment by geographical area example, Axway was a partner of InnoDays 2019, an annual Open Innovation event that is held in various subsidiaries of 2019 2018 the Total Group. At the InnoDays in France, Total employees could visit places of innovation located at Paris La Défense Europe excluding France 56% 49% over 6 half-days. 41 people were welcomed at Axway’s Paris France 18% 17% office in October 2019; Americas 23% 29% ● by adopting new marketing expertise focusing on the Asia/Pacific 2% 5% detection of “Lead-generation” sales opportunities, using social networks, websites, mobile applications and new digital tools such as collaborative platforms. Research & Development skills in Bulgaria and Romania were increased by grouping together teams by technology field. This led to a natural decrease in the replacement of employees working on these products in the United States. At Axway, we believe that an environment that welcomes The Data City event held in June 2019 with the Paris City Hall individual differences increases innovation and openness, and illustrates the sharing of technological expertise with start-ups enables more rewarding customer experiences and employee and public players with a view to developing partnership career paths. We aim to reflect the diversity of the world projects with high added value. around us and the variety of genres, ages, experiences and Finally, there is also a need for greater flexibility between cultures which strengthen Axway and enable it to better meet business lines, as well as more transparent managerial its challenges. communication to share the strategy, explain it and involve teams in more collaborative ways. EXTRACT -2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 09 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent The average age of employees hired is 36 A “learning” company for young talent Recruitment 2019 2018 2019 2018 Average age 36 34 Interns 15 9 Over 40 34% 23% Work-study/apprenticeship 24 20 o/w over 50 12% 10% Hiring at the end of the apprenticeship 4 2 o/w over 55 5% 5% For several years, Axway has been developing a programme to The average age of employees recruited in 2019 was 36.5. attract young talent through a number of initiatives: Employees recruited in France and the United States in 2019 partnerships to achieve objectives contributing to the brought longer professional experience than those recruited in employment and qualification of young people through Romania and Bulgaria in 2018. The average age of those relations with schools and the integration of young trainees, recruited in 2019 was up by 2 years compared to the previous work-study students or apprentices with engineering, sales or year. In addition, 34% of employees who joined us in 2019 are functional profiles: finance, marketing, communication,HR. over 40, including 12% over 50 and 5% over 55. ● Maintaining our relationships with schools: in conjunction with 10 universities and engineering schools in several Permanent Employment Contracts: 96% countries, Axway participates several times a year in school forums to attract students and offer numerous internships each year. The Group also uses specialised recruitment platforms. In 2019, Axway welcomed 15 interns. At the end of their internship, some continue full-time studies under apprenticeships or work-study programmes. 2019 2018 ● Promote work-study and apprenticeship: Each year, Axway offers work-study or apprenticeship contracts to a large Fixed-term Employment Contracts 3.9% 5% number of young people, most of whom are offered Permanent Employment Contracts 96.1% 95% employment contracts at the end of their apprenticeship or work-study period. In 2019, Axway welcomed 24 young Axway recruits almost exclusively on permanent contracts people on work-study or apprenticeship contracts. At the (excluding temporary replacements). These contracts beginning of 2020, the majority of them are continuing their accounted for more than 96% of recruitment in 2019. apprenticeship period; 4 young people were hired on permanent contracts in 2019. Given the nature of Axway’s business, almost all new hires are from higher education institutions, in the case of the most ● 3 years/3 professions: In 2019, Axway will continue its junior employees. For more senior levels, experience is “3 years/3 professions” programme during which preferred over initial academic training, which varies greatly work-study students and apprentices will successively from country to country. discover the Research & Development, Services and Customer Support professions. Created in 2015, this programme has already welcomed 17 work-study students. In 2019, three students from this programme were hired by Axway at the end of their apprenticeship period. At the beginning of 2020, nine students are taking part in this programme within the Axway Group. In 2019, Axway entered into a partnership with a Europe-wide recruitment platform that provides solutions for career services for higher education institutions in Europe: the Axway Group has a dedicated page on this platform where it posts internship and job offers for young graduates. 10 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Promote referral and encourage employees 1.1.2 2020 Recruitment Strategy to become Axway ambassadors and Commitment Axway has developed an attractive referral programme, In 2020, thanks to a Talent Acquisition team located in various encouraging Axway employees to propose to their network to countries around the world and capable of covering all the join the Company. This co-optation policy, applied in all geographic regions where Axway operates, the Group will countries, contributed 6.5% to the recruitment of new continue to recruit a variety of profiles, mainly engineers and employees in 2019. sales staff. The partnerships entered into in 2019 will strengthen Axway’s employer brand and visibility as an employer ofchoice. 1.2 Develop the talents of each employee in a stimulating environment 1.2.1 Key figures and major Learning and succeeding through development actions in 2019 customers: Sales Enablement The use of Axway’s solutions by customers is fundamental to Develop employability and skills with Axway the Group’s success. All Axway employees contribute to University: 30,900 hours of training in 2019 building a customer-focused culture in all projects in which they participate. Axway University is the Group’s major development centre. In 2019, its organisation was strengthened by the recruitment of If they do not work directly with customers, employees can new experts in educational engineering. The offering has been obtain customer feedback through the permanent monitoring professionalised to focus on the activities critical to Axway’s of customer satisfaction organised by the “Customer Success” success: technical expertise, increasing the skills of the sales unit and all Group activities. teams, personal development and management. As part of the emergence of subscription models, which More and more training courses are now digital. Employees change the way customers use Axway's solutions, the Group receive invitations to online training sessions and can choose has deployed a training module on assessing customer when they are best able to take them. Depending on the satisfaction: the Net Promoter Score (NPS) module. This subject, they may be optional or mandatory. The digital format module is taken by all managers and most teams, whatever -58% of training hours – requires short, dynamic sequences their function. This initiative, launched in 2018, ensures that and can be accessed from Axway’s “Jive” internal social the Company’s strengths are perfectly aligned around this network. Employees have access from their usual work tool central theme. A total of 1,491 employees have been trained and choose from a wide range of courses that they can use as since the launch of this initiative. they wish, according to their needs. In addition, in 2019, an NPS target was added to the criteria for A total of 30,900 hours of training were provided in 2019 to determining the amount of variable compensation for all 2,194 employees, i.e. an average of two days per trained eligible employees. employee. The aim of this development is to strengthen the customer A new e-learning platform (Learning Management System, focus of Axway’s employees, regardless of their contribution acquired in December 2019, will enable Axway to increase the to this objective. number of training courses in 2020 and to deploy the offers to its customers and partners. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 11 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Stimulate innovation and experimentation managers, this annual exercise, which replaces the former annual assessment interview system, makes it possible to in internal competitions: the Hackathons identify key talents and the development and training actions necessary for the development of each employee. This new system is part of the adoption, at the end of 2019, of a global approach to continuous performance management based on ongoing dialogue between employees and managers. A week for alternate Innovation or Experimentation: the Hacking weeks ● The professional career interview: since 2014 and in accordance with the law, Axway has also implemented in In 2019, each of Axway’s five Research & Development sites France the professional interview that takes place every (France, Bulgaria, Romania, Ireland and the United States) devoted five weeks to the “Hacking Weeks” initiative, during two years. This meeting between the employee and a which a team does not carry out its usual work but focuses Human Resources professional allows the employee to on an idea that could enable Axway to innovate its products, consider his or her professional development paths, both in services or processes. The teams, whose members are terms of qualifications and employment and provides an freely chosen, compete for a limited time, with rewards for opportunity to discuss his or her aspirations. projects of the greatest interest or with potential for major advances for Axway, its products or technologies. Benefits of the Axway community Move to learn Axway’s teams in 17 countries can share Company events via the Jive internal social network, internal newsletters and on-site events. 2019 2018 ● The “Jive” internal social network: a real day-to-day tool for Internal transfers 110 326 exchanges between employees, Axway’s internal social network is accessible from any electronic device, anywhere To answer the expectations expressed by employees in the first in the world. It is aimed at all employees and it is the employee engagement survey, Axway pursued its voluntary Company’s internal space for discussions. Organised by internal mobility policy for allemployees in 2019. spaces and communities, it provides a range of services: All job offers (excluding exceptionally confidential jobs) can be internal resources, social information, Group tools, customer viewed by all employees. Indeed, by going to the internal references and product catalogues. network’s Make your Move (MY Move) Career page, each The internal social network reflects the life of Axway’s sites employee can access the internal application management in “posts” and pictures as the days go by. Jive makes it portal. In addition, every Friday, the internal newsletter possible to share customer events, to celebrate the seniority publishes 3 new offers to give them special visibility. of employees, to remotely experience the significant celebrations of the different countries, to relive the moments The internal mobility policy and the rules for benefiting from it of conviviality held on the sites (family celebrations, health are available in various formats and distributed on a regular week, etc.). Each major site has a “People & Culture” team basis. that organises and relays the events. In 2019, each site 110 employees changed positions internally in 2019, compared organised an average of five events. to 326 in 2018, which was marked by the completion of ● The Griffin Digest: the weekly internal electronic newsletter reorganisations and the realignment of classifications in France. distributed by the Human Resources Department, whose In addition, employees are invited to promote available positions name echoes the griffin of the Axway logo, is sent every at Axway in their own network, through the referral programme Friday to all employees, regardless of their geographical presented in the recruitment section of this Chapter. location or the entity to which they belong. It includes Group news, projects, links to documents and blogs available on the corporate social network. It is published in English, Evaluate to progress and grow which is the working language of the Group. ● The Talent Review approach: at the end of 2019, Axway set ● The Customer reference letter: this is distributed by up and carried out for the first time, at a global level, a talent Axway’s CEO, who himself presents a signature or review (98% of the total workforce) to evaluate and discuss customer reference to all teams each week, in the form of a the performance and potential of each employee. Carried out few lines. It is a popular channel for gaining a better collectively and shared by managers and Human Resources understanding of how customers use Axway’s solutions. 12 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Develop managerial power The “Home Office” system is very widespread in the United States, where 33.5% of employees work remotely, far from any In 2019, Axway used, for the entire Group, the Objectives and Axway office. The system is supported by collaborative tools Key Results (OKR approach, which enables the Group to accessible to all employees: Internet conferencing, secure data collectively manage the performance of its teams by defining sharing, internal social networking. It also encourages an strategic objectives by business line and even key results that optimisation of business travel through remotemeetings. are shared on a quarterly basis. In France, a “Home Office” Group agreement allowing remote In order to deploy the continuous performance management working was signed in 2018, allowing employees to work the approach to all employees, the Company has designed training equivalent of five days a month (full or half-days) outside the modules to introduce teams to these concepts. Company premises – at home or in a private space. Complementary to this approach, the Conversation/Feedback/ In December 2019, Axway implemented a one-off extended Recognition (CFR system encourages ongoing dialogue and teleworking plan enabling employees to continue working from regular feedback between managers and employees home during transport strikes in France. throughout the year. The first modules of these training courses will be operational in early 2020. Benefit from additional days of leave Additional days of leave are granted according to several criteria: seniority, family situation or private events in order to 1.2.2 Offer a fulfilling work environment improve each employee’s work-life balance. This represents an average of 5 days per employee in France. Maintain low absenteeism: 2.72% In a company where employees are the most important asset, the well-being of each employee is essential. Other than the Absenteeism remains very low at Axway and linked to family ethical expectations mentioned above, a good work-life events such as maternity/paternity andadoption. balance is a considerable asset for employees. Reasons for absenteeism % of absenteeism Make working time and rhythm Sickness 1.21% more flexible Occupational/commuting accident – occupational disease 0.04% Maternity-Paternity-Adoption 1.33% Part-time staff: 2.1% Family events 0.10% CIF 0.04% Total 2.72% For each of its subsidiaries, Axway complies with its legal and contractual obligations concerning working time. Working time is determined based on local requirements and activities. In most of the countries where its employees work, Axway is Encourage a healthy, balanced and affiliated to a collective agreement: in France, Axway engaged lifestyle Software SA implements the French National Collective Axway is committed to providing its employees with a safe Agreement for technical design and engineering offices, and healthy workplace. For several years now, Axway has engineering consultants andconsulting firms. implemented a well-established health and safety policy. At In 2019, 2.1% of Axway Group employees worked part-time, Axway Software SA, a Health, Safety and Working Conditions mostly within the scope of parental leave. Committee (CHSCT) was involved in its coordination, in close collaboration with occupational physicians and site managers, until the appointment of the Social and Economic Committee Remote working in France: 5 days per month. (SEC) in October 2019. In 2019, the CHSCT met 4 times. In the USA: 33.5% of employees. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 13 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent Beyond regulations, the collaborative working model adopted Axway and its employees have also participated in several by Axway is accompanied by careful attention to premises solidarity and research support initiatives. In France, this where employees work and meet in welcoming, sometimes fun involved the Odysséa race. In the United States, several places and shared time involving unified themes. initiatives were adopted such as Axway for Angels, Hope Walk 2019 for the Phoenix Children’s Hospital, or Feed My Starving In France, Ireland, the United States and Bulgaria, “Griffitamin Children. In Ireland, employees took part in a solidarity day in Week” or Health Week was organised in 2019, proposing support of the Aisling project, an initiative to help and care for notably wellness sessions, nutritionists, discovery underprivileged children after school. In 2019, Axway workshops, etc. Its success with employees will encourage employees formed a group of musicians, The Grifftones, and Axway to renew this initiative in 2020. recorded a song entitled “Better Together”. Profits were donated to the US association Sound Track, which teaches music to underprivileged children. 1.3 Mobilise talents: strengthen equality within teams ● An internal roadshow for members of Axway’s Executive 1.3.1 Key figures and major actions Management was held at all Group sites in the first quarter in 2019 of 2019 to share the Group’s strategy for 2020. This communication continued throughout 2019 with quarterly Internal survey: presentations by the Chief Executive Officer and the 83% participation and 58% engagement members of the Executive Committee, at the time of the results and at significant events for the Company. Identify employee expectations and engage Foster equality in close dialogue Axway respects the principles of non-discrimination when hiring and deploys a policy in favour of diversity in a number of For the past four years, Axway has organised “Axwegians’ Voice” areas described below: engagement surveys approximately every 15 months to measure employees' satisfaction and engagement. The objective is not only to identify areas for improvement by country or by Encourage female engineering and digital department, but also to build and deploy local action plans. workers Three surveys have taken place since 2016. An initiative of the French government in 2019, Axway’s ● Axwegian’s Voice: in October 2019, the internal dialogue Gender Equality Index was 75/100in 2019. continued through a new survey that provided, for each of In France, while the number of female graduates from the countries where the Group’s teams work, areas of engineering schools is increasing slowly (27% in 2018 vs. 22% satisfaction as well as employee expectations. The in 1995), the Observatoire des femmes ingénieurs (Female response rate of 83%, compared to 72% in 2018, validates engineers observatory) indicates in its latest study that young the initiative and the expressed results. The employee girls and women are disinterested in digital jobs, which is engagement rate rose to 58%, up 9 points from 2018. underlined by the fact that fewer than 10% of such jobs are ● Working groups by community and led by the employees held by women. Thus, 20% of IT engineers and study, Research themselves continued in 2019 to advance the themes & Development managers are women, and only 16% of IT study revealed by the survey and to propose initiatives. and development technicians are women. ● Full result reports were presented to local teams through The average number of girls in digital education schools and internal mailings or blogs on the internal social network. establishments was assessed at around15%. Analysis and deployment of action plans will continue in 2020. The Digital sector now has 33% women in its workforce, vs. 53% for all business sectors. This gap increases further when it comes to the most technical profiles (source: Talents du Numérique). 14 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Employer’s commitment: Attract, develop, mobilise and retain talent The profession is facing a female recruitment crisis. However, Promote the employment of people at Axway, the proportion of female engineers recruited is higher than the percentage of women graduating from with disabilities by raising awareness engineering schools. and understanding In 2019, 29.2% of those who joined Axway were women (32% Axway’s Mission Handicap in conjunction with the programme in 2018). previously conducted with Sopra Steria, offers personalised support to all employees with disabilities. This initiative enables In 2019, the Executive Committee increased to eight members them to benefit from specific arrangements – ergonomics, and recruited two women as Chief Financial Officer and equipment, organisation of working time, etc. – and to be Executive Vice-President, People & Culture,respectively. accompanied through all the administrative procedures In 2019, Axway entered into a partnership with the Professional necessary to have their status as disabled workers recognised. Women's Network (PWN), a women’s network with a strong Awareness-raising activities and role-playing through fun presence in Europe (Paris, Berlin, Dublin, etc.) and enabled a activities such as Handigital week and Handidays took place in dozen female Axway employees to benefit from the events May and November 2019. These initiatives aim to reduce the organised by this network, while increasing Axway’s visibility as prejudices that too often oppose performance and disability by a key company in the technology sector. involving employee volunteers. More generally, every Axway site in France has a disability officer who is responsible for supporting employees who are Contribute to the digital education personally or indirectly dealing with disability. Axway also of young girls offers employees with disabilities in their family circle the status of “close carer”, enabling them to benefit from financial Axway takes part in awareness programmes with young girls support, flexible working hours and adjustments to their to attract new candidates into engineering andtechnology. working conditions. ● Wi-Filles: With the FACE Foundation (Fondation Agir Contre A specific disability awareness module was developed by l’Exclusion), Axway has contributed to the Wi-Filles Axway University to inform employees about the reality of programme, an introduction to the uses, businesses and employing disabled persons. skills of the digital world, aimed at young girls between the ages of 14 and 16. ● “Elles bougent”: an association whose objective is to attract young graduates and students to partner companies, including Axway, and to introduce them to the Digital, Aerospace, Automotive, Consulting, Construction, Maritime and Energy industries in which they operate through the organisation of forums. Axway has been a partner in France since 2017. The association operates worldwide under the name “Girls on the Move” and Axway wishes to extend its partnership in 2020 beyond France. Remain attractive to seniors Across the Axway Group, recruitment is carried out without distinction as to age, young graduates, more experienced individuals or senior staff, and Axway facilitates the integration of seniors and develops their employability throughout their career. Recruitment figures for seniors are given at the beginning of this chapter. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 15 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics 1.4 Recognise and sustainably retain talent and potential of each employee invited to build and develop their own potential within the Company. Average seniority: 7 years In 2019, as in previous years, Axway paid salary increases in accordance with a policy of individualisation, applied in a fair and identical manner in all countries where Axway operates. In France, employees are eligible for profit-sharing according Build loyalty in a long-term project to the provisions of an agreement signed for the period 2018-2020 as well as a Company Savings Plan. Axway’s objective is to write a shared employee/Company history. This shared history is already visible in the average Axway also takes part in retirement and pre-retirement length of service of men and women at Axway 7 years – in a schemes, as well as occupational-insurance schemes covering volatile employment market. its employees for various additional contingencies, beyond the regulatory provisions imposed bythe different countries. Recognise and celebrate employee loyalty Become an Axway shareholder: the Free At Axway, employee loyalty is rewarded. Each month, Share grant programme employees who have been with Axway for 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 or 40 years are honoured for their loyalty to the In order to involve its employees even more closely in the Company during a friendly event, an initiative held at all the Company’s transformation project, Axway announced on Group’s sites and shared on Jive, the Group’s social network. 22 February 2019 the grant of 200 free shares to each Group 414 employees were honoured in 2019. employee active on that date, subject to the condition that they remain employed by the Group for a period of three years. Wherever Axway operates, whether with customers, partners Pay according to attractive financial and or employees, the Group will continue to strengthen its social conditions employer commitment, develop its societal footprint and further its respect for the planet. The Axway compensation policy reflects the Group’s industry in each country as well as the evaluation of the performance 2 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics The Group is very keen to protect its ecosystem, and therefore The network of correspondents covers the following its business activities are ethically responsible and transparent. countries: France, United States, Germany, Ireland, Bulgaria and Romania. In 2019, Axway renewed its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. The Group’s societal commitments are based on local teams in each country, sometimes at the initiative of the People & Culture, Marketing, Communication or Sales departments, who make To promote and perpetuate its efforts, the Group has set up a commitments to associations or civil society organisations. network of correspondents in the main countries where it operates. This network structures the transversal collection of information related to societal, ethical and environmental initiatives. 16 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics 2.1 The ethics programme Axway has decided to work both on a global ethics programme The Securities Trading Code of Conduct which creates value for the entire Group, as well as local initiatives in response to specific requirements in each country. As a listed company, Axway is subject to compliance with the provisions of European and French stock exchange law relating to market abuse and insider trading. Trust in our business relationships The basis of this regulation is based on the principles of transparency and equality between shareholders and investors The Group has implemented tools to ensure compliance with so that any buyer and seller of financial instruments of a listed its key values with the various stakeholders with which it company has access to the same information, at the same interacts on a daily basis. time, on that company. Axway relies on a set of values shared by its employees and In accordance with AMF position-recommendation stakeholders: no. 2016-081, Axway has set up a committee dedicated to the The Ethics charter is applicable to employees as publication of insider information. It is responsible for well as stakeholders with which the Group works. Its assessing whether information is privileged or not and for purpose is to present the key values for the Group studying the consequences of this qualification in terms of the and the legal tools that ensure compliance withthese values. dissemination of information. The Group has demonstrated the principles underlying this The purpose of the Securities Trading Code of Conduct is to charter through specific examples. Thus, an online training inform employees or other stakeholders of the Group as well course built around specific cases was set up in 2018 to as any current or future shareholder of the Company of the facilitate the understanding of this charter. The deployment of legislative and regulatory principles relating to market abuse this training continued in 2019. as well as the additional internal measures put in place in The Group’s objective is that this training is completed by all particular to prevent insider misconduct. employees. New recruits must complete it within 3 months of their arrival. Automatic reminders aresent out if necessary. Data protection In order to protect its values, the Group has also implemented a whistle-blowing system. Through its presence in 17 countries, the Group wishes to maintain a common culture of transparency, trust, integrity and Fight against corruption: Axway has adopted an active responsibility both internally with its employees and externally approach in the fight against corruption. The Group adheres with its customers and business partners. each year to the United Nations Convention of 31 October 2003 against corruption which commits it to applying the laws Axway’s privacy compliance programme in force, including anticorruption laws, particularly the Sapin 2 (https://www.axway.com/en/gdpr) supports this culture by Law. The Group has taken all provisions to respond and presenting policies that ensure that operations comply with the develop its Ethics charter in this sense. laws and regulations in force in the countries where the Group operates. In particular, Axway acts in compliance with the Duty of care: As part of its responsible procurement policy, General Data Protection Regulations in the EU (GDPR), Australia Axway fulfils its duty of care by asking its suppliers to provide (Privacy Act amendment 2017), California (California Consumer attestations that prove that they prohibit concealed employment Privacy Act) and Brazil (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados). and child labour and they meet their obligation to hire disabled workers. In 2019, Axway continued its initiative relating to the social and Legal procedures for selecting solidarity economy, by reinforcing its use of adapted service providers businesses in France for the purchase of office supplies. For each contract signed with its partners and service In 2020, the policy in favour of the sheltered sector will lead to providers, Axway validates its information confidentiality, membership of an association acting in favour of the ethics and personal data protection charters. employment of workers with disabilities to involve only companies from the sheltered sector for certain purchases or services such as office supplies, certain snacks, filing, gardening. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 17 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics 2.2 Societal initiatives Historically, societal approaches and initiatives were not and support for associations helping to integrate people coordinated at Group level. The teams of the different Group with disabilities. sites retained significant independence in their choice of CSR For this 2019 report, Axway presents both the actions initiatives in order to respond locally to requirements in deployed on the initiative of employees in each of the Group’s countries where the subsidiaries are located. countries and supported by Axway and the programmes Since the publication of its first Non-Financial Performance harmonised by the Human Resources Department. Statement in 2019 for the year 2018, Axway has structured Among the initiatives pursued or initiated in 2019 are the two programmes around digital education for young girls following: Example initiatives Societal stakeholders Results Diversity Support for women's projects Elles bougent Education Raising digital awareness of young girls FACE Wi-Filles Foundation Donations programme Sounds Academy USA Fight against discrimination Odyssea Solidarity Race and Stand – fight against cancer France Odyssea 35 participants Culture & Education One-year digital exhibition subscription for shareholders attending La Gaiété Lyrique, 100 beneficiaries the 2019 General Meeting Reduced inequality Awareness-raising campaign for the integration of people Hand Digital e-learning, survey, contest. with disabilities ESAT* France supplier of supplies Dignity of the human person Support programmes for children in hospital Phoenix Children's Hospital, Ignite Hope * Establishment and Service of Help through Work. Societal initiatives carried out In the United States with Axway’s stakeholders ● American employees decided to set up a blood drive. This initiative was performed with Vitalant (FKA United Blood Services). ● Walk for hospitalised children: Axway For Angels, Phoenix Children’s Hospital Ignite Hope. ● Donations to music schools: creation, recording and Employees: act locally broadcast on Arizona TV of the song #BetterTogether featuring one of Axway’s mottos. Among the initiatives undertaken by the employees of Axway’s various international subsidiaries are the following: In France In Bulgaria ● Sveti Nikola Foundation: Axway volunteer employees collect clothes, books and toys for children. ● The FACE foundation Wi-Filles programme was chosen to ● To raise awareness of the impact of human activity on support the digitisation campaign with individual Axway natural resources, employees have set up awareness shareholders. Wi-Filles is a programme to introduce young workshops relating to (i) recycling and combating clothing girls between 14 and 16 years old to digital uses, jobs and waste and (ii) training and workshops to raise awareness of skills. It encourages young girls to further their understanding “Zero waste” with Pletchica. of a future with digital, develop their independence and their ability to act and take control of their education and career. (https://www.fondationface.org/projet/wi-filles/). 18 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics ● Professional Women Network, a European women’s Customers: work transparently network with 700 active members in Paris, Dublin, Rome, Berlin, Madrid, etc. promotes women engineers who transmit their passions and wish to encourage vocations. In 2019, the partnership concluded with PWN and Axway enabled 12 female employees from Europe to participate in In 2019, Axway had its corporate social responsibility events organised by the network and thus raise awareness approach evaluated by the EcoVadis platform to encourage of Axway. transparency and trust by customers and business partners. ● Odyssea: 35 employees (men and women) again took part The Silver rating obtained last year was confirmed again this year in the solidarity race against cancer and for the this year. first time Axway welcomed visitors at a stand. Bringing employees, processes and the platform together, EcoVadis implemented a broad-spectrum CSR assessment methodology covering 150 purchasing categories, 110 countries ● Elles bougent, which promotes female engineers who pass and 21 CSR indicators. This is the first collaborative platform on their passion and generate interest in the career. In evaluating suppliers’ sustainable development performance for 2019, nine Axway employees, sponsors and mentors global supply chains. EcoVadis has become a trusted partner for promoted Axway to students and recent graduates to buyers at a significant number of multinational companies. promote our activities by participating in Elles bougent events. Start-ups: support co-development ● ADIE: 5-year partnership with ADIE (non-profit association) to which Axway supplies software. This association helps There are an increasing number of co-development or people marginalised in the labour market (without access co-innovation projects bringing together a customer, a start-up to a traditional banking system) to set up businesses, and and a public organisation or civil society. The development of thus create their own jobs, via the use of microcredit. mobile apps to which Axway contributes by providing data helps offer new services to public users. In Ireland Thus in 2019, the Mayor of Paris launched the DataCity programme in a co-innovation model bringing together major ● For the elderly: employees decided to put forward a companies, start-ups and public services through a dozen communication programme aimed at helping the elderly challenges aimed at making life easier for Parisians. Axway with garden maintenance and shopping. The objective is participated in several of these projects designed to support the helping to maintain a social link between generations on a development of new forms of mobility, make unused parking daily basis. The operation initiated was renewed in 2019. spaces available, encourage the switch to electric vehicles, reduce roadworks time in the city and inform Parisians about roadworks in progress. This programme has demonstrated the ● Women Reboot is an Irish initiative aimed at experienced value of using urban data to improve quality of life. and qualified women in the information technologies sector who have taken a career break. Axway Ireland supports this initiative: at the Women Hack Dublin in November 2019, the Public bodies: engage with diplomatic Axway team was able to make contact with talented bodies for the development of industry women with the skills required for the positions on offer. Axway was invited by Business France to represent mid-size companies on the presidential delegation that brought In Romania together 17 French companies from various business sectors ● Aura Ion: donations of Christmas gifts to underprivileged during the official visit of the President of the French Republic families in rural areas in partnership with the Aura Ion to the China International Import & Export Exhibition in association. November 2019. During this official trip, Business France also organised more than 100 company meetings for Axway and other participating companies in nine Chinese cities, which enabled them to strengthen their relationships and present solutions to support them in their digital transformation. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 19 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Societal commitment: work with our stakeholders in agreement with the Group’s ethics Investors: non-financial indicators ● integrator partners to develop solutions based on Axway products, whether through co-selling, referencing or For several years, Axway has participated in the Gaïa reselling. Axway works with Digital Service Providers Rating index by providing all the non-financial data (DSPs), both generalists and specialists in digital selected by Gaïa. This approach, designed for transformation, on a local or global scale; investors to provide visibility on the responsible ● partners for the distribution of Axway products. These commitment of companies, contributes to Axway’s reflection resellers are particularly present in Asia Pacific and Latin on non-financial indicators relevant toits business. America; ● consultancy firms for Axway’s offerings as part of their digital transformation missions. Partners: distribution and innovation In 2019, Axway strengthened its partner system, which Axway applies the ethical and anti-corruption rules established encourages co-innovation through the creation of joint solutions by the Group for the various partners with which it works. via the AMPLIFY™ Marketplace, and integrates marketing tools, These partnerships are formalised at local or global level and training courses and different levels of reciprocal commitment. with different types of companies: The satisfaction survey of global partners has shown very ● global technology alliances to strengthen Axway’s on-site strong growth in the commitment of our ecosystem. and cloud-based offerings with AWS and Microsoft Azure; 2.3 Societal progress goals for 2020 In 2020, Axway will continue its local and international ● cultural diversity; initiatives with all of its stakeholders to help position Axway as ● equal opportunities in particular for people in precarious a responsible player in the regions where it operates. situations or who are disabled, and for whom the Handicap Within the framework of Group programmes, societal initiatives Mission already launched itsinitiatives in early 2020. are part of the sustainable objectives linked to: ● education to contribute to the sharing of skills; 20 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact 3 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact Although Axway is considered a non-industrial company, since Axway’s business is naturally divided into two types of its creation it has pursued a responsible policy of resource programmes: consumption in the performance of its business. It aims to 1. Contributing to the fight against climate change; modernise infrastructure while consuming less energy. 2. Contributing to the preservation of life on land. In 2019, the Group continued to reflect on additional efforts to Beyond that, in 2020, new initiatives will further reduce the help reduce its environmental footprint. Group’s environmental footprint. The geographical scope used for monitoring programmes covers countries in which at least 70 Axway employees work: France, USA, Bulgaria, Romania, Germany,Ireland. SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE PROTECTION OF LIFE ON LAND Contribution to the fight against climate change Life on land Main actions Stakeholders Mechanism carried out in 2019 Objective/line of progress Network of 15 correspondents in 6 countries within the scope of the impact measurement Employees x x ● Limit travel ● Extension of remote ● Replacement of all ● Eco-friendly gestures working or “Home plastic cups with ● Digital tools Office” paper cups ● Recycling ● Offsetting the carbon ● Gradual replacement of footprint of business standard plastic cups travel with transport by biodegradable cups partners ● No more receipts at the Company restaurant in France Customers x x ● Limit travel ● Teleconferences ● Increase the use of ● Streamline data storage ● Choice of data storage exchange platforms providers Partners and x x ● Limit printouts ● Electronic signature ● Increasing use of the Suppliers electronic signature Shareholders x x ● e-consent ● 2 annual campaigns ● Achieve 60% e-consent Civil society ● Recycling ● IT equipment donations ● Clothing donations Employee ● Eliminate the use of ● Electronic voting for the representatives paper documents election of employee representatives and appointment of the CSE in France EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 21 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact 3.1 Contribute to the fight against climate change Axway does not directly generate emissions into the air, water or ● collaborative exchange platforms for internal teams and soil. It does not use water or resources that are considered partners: Axway has a secure document and data exchange sensitive and does not pose a real direct risk to the environment. tool called “Syncplicity” that reduces the use of email and allows employees to work in collaborative mode with Nevertheless, the Group is committed to preserving the complete security and data confidentiality; environment. Through its locations in 17 countries, and its teams working everywhere where its customers are located, ● the exchange platforms offered by suppliers and partners Axway has always encouraged the use of video conferencing. are widely used in Axway’s business sector to share Investments in audio/video equipment, messaging platforms documents and manage projects. These are platforms and shared tools encourage team communication whilst made available by suppliers or partners that enable the protecting the environment by limiting travel. exchange of information, files or messages by limiting the sending of files by email, for example; Axway’s organisation, like its teams on a day-to-day basis, ● websites and access to service platforms: for its readily adopts working methods and tools that promote ease shareholders, Axway provides access to an online voting of communication, quality of life at work and work-life balance. platform for Shareholders’ Meetings, which also allows for Focused on innovation and skills development with a the downloading of regulatory documents and limits paper responsible commitment, Axway’s teams interact responsibly mailings; with customers, partners, suppliers and civil society. ● in 2019, the elections of the members of the SEC – Social The need to control our environmental impact is therefore and Economic Committee, in France – were carried out covered by a continuous improvement programme that exclusively by electronic voting. Without a physical polling specifically involves the relevant functional divisions, station, without voting by post, only the codes to give a employees, customers, service providers and shareholders. unique and individual access to employees were sent to This mode of responsible collaboration takes the form of work each person’s home in paper format. This new process organisation systems and associated tools that make it ensured confidentiality, increased flexibility and generated possible to measure their use and progress. cost savings; ● the dematerialisation of documents to limit printing and the Use digital tools to reduce Axway’s carbon footprint: sending of lengthy documents that consume bandwidth in ● teleworking by Axway employees was introduced in France the servers: Axway has implemented electronic signature under a company-wide agreement in 2018 and is practised tools for employees, customers, partners and suppliers. In worldwide in accordance with current legislation. It 2019, the use of electronic signatures showed a growth of contributes to work-life balance and was recognised in more than 40% in signed volumes. 2019, in the engagement survey, as one of the key criteria for Axway’s employee satisfaction; ● teleconferencing is practised daily by all Axway teams. This Electronic signature 2019 2018 2017 reduces travel and improves the quality of life for people who No. of files signed 8,303 5,714 1,703 can connect from any location in complete security. 2019 is No. of pages signed 33,746 23,504 9,743 the year in which employees also widely adopted the online messaging tool “Microsoft Teams” made available to them; ● printing and photocopying also dropped significantly over the past three years thanks to signage raising awareness Teleconferences 2019 2018 2017 on the environmental impact. No. of meetings 126,189 127,607 117,977 Meetings per employee 66.7 69.1 64.2 Paper consumption 2019 2018 2017 Reams in France 750 875 1,085 ● data hosting: Axway sets up service contracts to host large volumes of data for its own business, for its customers and with its partners. Service providers of very large structures such as Amazon AWS, Microsoft, Salesforce, etc. ensure compliance with environmental andsocietal standards. 22 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact Controlling energy consumption at Axway’s premises As a tenant at all its sites, Axway seeks to optimise the energy performance of its facilities. When leases The indicators used are renewed, the premises are equipped with ● gas, fuel-oil, electricity andwater consumption; modern, environmentally friendly heating and air-conditioning ● kilometres travelled (excluding personalvehicles); systems. The French headquarters located in Paris La Défense ● IT equipment donations; benefit from La Défense’s highly environmentally-friendly air conditioning and heating system which uses the county’s ● waste recycling and management; waste (Enertherm). ● charity initiatives. In 2019, the gain in energy consumption brought about by the new fluid exchange system was offset by the increase in energy consumption due to the increased occupancy of the Tower by new corporate tenants (70% to 100%). Geographic scope and network of correspondents ● France; 2019 2018 2017 ● Germany; Heating/Air conditioning ● Romania; (Enertherm) in MWh 1227 1067 1095 ● Bulgaria; ● Ireland; The regular preventive maintenance of the various installations, mainly carried out by Engie, guarantees optimal ● USA – Phoenix site. equipment operation. Axway’s greenhouse gas emissions balance sheet (BEGES), Encouraging employees to participate which uses the Bilan Carbone® methodology developed by the French Environment and Energy Management Agency in eco-friendly programmes (ADEME), measures the impact of the Group’s activities on the Axway encourages employee initiatives in an environment. eco-responsible approach The countries included in the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Each new employee joining Axway receives a Account (BEGES) scope are France, Germany (1), Romania, welcome pack, including a mug with the Axway logo. Axway Bulgaria, Ireland and the Phoenix site in the USA. branded promotional items distributed on our stands or at The perimeter described above represents more than 80% of customer events are eco-friendly: cups or mugs made of the total area of premises. recyclable plastic, T-shirts or bags made of fair trade cotton. Programmes are being conducted in collaboration with the The BEGES was completed by an independent service provider Irish and US governments to promote carpooling and cycling. with a Bilan Carbone® license issued by the Association Bilan Carbone (ABC) for 2020. The GHG Emissions Account (BEGES) was drawn up on the basis of the updated official greenhouse Analyse to manage the Group’s gas emissions assessment in accordance with version 4 of the assessment production methodology published in July 2015 by carbon footprint the French Ministry for the Ecology, Sustainable Development Over the past two years, Axway Group has decided to and Energy. strengthen its environmental policy and relies on a network of It appears from the report drawn up that: internal correspondents in key countries (those in which more than 70 employees work on a daily basis) to collect ● direct GHG emissions in CO2 metric tons equivalent environmental data relating to energy consumption in terms of amounted to 262 (T eq. CO2); fuel oil, electricity, gas and water. ● indirect GHG emissions associated with the production of imported electricity, heat or steam, in CO2 metric tons equivalent amounted to 430 (T eq. CO2); and ● finally, other indirect GHG emissions in CO2 metric tons equivalent amounted to 185 (T eq. CO2). Thus, total greenhouse gases emissions by the Axway Group within the scope defined above totalled 1,877 (T eq. CO2). The assessments for 2017 and 2018 were updated with updated emission factors, as recommended by the Ministry in its methodology. (1) Excluding the Frankfurt site for which data was not available. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 23 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact At constant structure (i.e. without Ireland, which was added Given the increase in our activity, our emissions control this year), greenhouse gas emissions fell by 2% (38 T eq. CO 2) trajectory is therefore consistent with our actions. between 2019 and 2018. A breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) is presented below: GHG EMISSIONS BY SCOPE BREAKDOWN OF GHG EMISSION BY COUNTRY (in T eq. CO2 and in %) (in T eq. CO2 and in %) 10% 2% 38 12% Other indirect Ireland France 185 GHG emission 262 14% 228 76% 31% 14% Direct GHG 583 269 Indirect emissions USA Phoenix Germany energy-related GHG emissions 1,430 26% 280 478 15% Bulgaria Romania BREAKDOWN BY M2 FOR EACH COUNTRY (in T eq. CO2) BREAKDOWN BY PERSON FOR EACH COUNTRY (in T eq. CO2) 0.494 0.473 0.047 0.030 Ireland France Ireland France 1.157 0.124 USA Phoenix 0.098 Germany 2.690 USA Phoenix 0.996 Germany Romania 0.101 0.142 1.777 Romania Bulgaria Bulgaria 24 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact CHANGE IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BETWEEN 2017 AND 2019, PER COUNTRY AND PER SOURCE Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 BY COUNTRY FRANCE 650 550 583 558 550 450 478 458 450 431 386 350 350 321 269 277 280 305 268 250 228 235 224 250 228 235 224 150 131 123 133 150 78 42 45 55 67 50 38 50 13 -50 -50 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 France Germany Bulgaria Romania USA Phoenix Ireland Total Electricity Heating Fuel 2019 2018 2017 network Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 GERMANY BULGARIA 550 550 478 458 468 456 450 450 386 383 350 321 350 269 277 250 250 145 163 150 118 150 88 99 99 63 77 50 16 50 10 2 3 -50 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 -50 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Total Electricity Gas Fuel Total Electricity Gas Fuel Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 Comparison of greenhouse gas emissions in T eq. CO2 ROMANIA USA (PHOENIX) 550 650 583 558 564 550 535 450 450 431 408 350 305 280 268 350 250 229 197 201 250 150 83 105 150 50 39 50 19 23 23 -50 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 -50 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Total Electricity Gas Fuel Total Electricity Gas Fuel There is no individual graph for Ireland as measurements for this country onlycommenced in 2019. Encourage responsible purchasing Axway’s commitment to controlling its consumption and and supplies. A proactive policy consists in favouring reducing its environmental impact also extends to its purchases eco-responsible suppliers. For example, service providers in of goods and services. charge of cleaning the premises are invited to use non-toxic and non-hasardous products. Axway’s site managers are encouraged to follow best practices for the purchase of consumables, office equipment EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 25 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Environmental commitment: reduce our environmental impact 3.2 Life on Land Reasonable consumption of computer and office equipment or The Company restaurant for Axway’s French site, based paper is in line with the Group’s good practices. Dedicated in Paris-La Défense, is also committed to an programmes have existed for several years to recycle or environmentally-friendly approach, with the collection and donate materials and thus limit consumption both internally recovery of biowaste. and with stakeholders. Recycle equipment through donations Treating waste Regarding IT and office equipment, new ergonomic workstations Axway’s activity generates waste with a high recycling improve the quality of employees’ working conditions but also potential. It mainly includes paper and cardboard as well as optimise energy and resource consumption with less computer consumables. energy-consuming terminals. Adhesive panels and whiteboards which consume less paper are also used in the offices. In France, Axway has chosen a supplier that provides collection – for recycling purposes – of cardboard, paper, In addition, the Group continues to donate equipment to plastic, cans and printer cartridges. The supplier does both employees and associations. regular and one-off collections. Voluntary collection points have also been installed to facilitate the process. Certain waste was only recorded as of 2018. 2019 2018 2017 Donations of computer IT equipment, With regard to WEEE (waste electrical and electronic computers, screens, etc. (in units) 500 192 200 equipment), Axway continues to pursue its policy of making donations to associations or to employees, as described below. Dematerialise documents exchanged with 2019 recycling Axway shareholders Waste collection (kg) 2017 2018 2019 rate At the end of 2019, 45% of Axway shareholders had agreed to Plastic 231 610 31 NA receive documents by email, considerably reducing the sending Ink cartridges 62 475 22 NA of paper documents. For several years now, campaigns to Paper & cardboard 3,970 9,799 7,195 70% encourage the adoption of electronic exchanges have been carried out around environmental programmes such as Cans NA 4 154 99% reforestation, or societal programmes for education such as the Bulky waste NA 260 1,183 NA FACE Foundation’s Wi-Filles programme in 2019. WEEE 451 1,037 245 98% 3.3 Pursue a reasonable environmental policy in 2020 and beyond Although the Group is present in 17 countries, the travel policy ● to reduce the use of plastics: Axway is involved in an effort has always been very controlled and digital collaborative tools to achieve, in the long term, zero plastic consumption on its have long been favoured. premises; In addition to this sound management, Axway is considering ● to reduce paper consumption: Axway is continuing its ways to make progress in the area of carbon offsetting: education and recycling programmes. ● for air travel: In 2020, Axway will analyse the interest in joining carbon offsetting programmes offeredby airlines; In light of the temporary closure of Axway’s premises during the COVID-19 epidemic, energy consumption from certain sources (electricity, heating, water, printing, paper cup consumption, etc.) should decrease during the lock-down at our various locations. The environmental impact of COVID-19 is likely to primarily concern greenhousegas emissions but be relatively limited. 26 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Methodology note Methodology note For the scope defined, the data stems from country-specific Data is collected from the relevant departments and this year’s reporting and the reporting produced by the divisions health and safety information was collected by the site concerned. A continuous improvement process has been set managers for Axway Software SA. up for those systems. A continuous improvement process has been set up for those Information provided about Axway Software SA concerns systems. France. The indicators used are those of the French Grenelle II Act. The principle of consistency of accounting methods year-on-year is respected. Human Resources information General provisions Scope of consolidation and indicators The workforce shown in the “Workforce” and “Breakdown of Workforce by Geographical Area” tables corresponds to the total number of employees at 31 December 2019. The indicators chosen are those used for personnel management and the Group’s employee-related issues. They reflect the results of the Human Resources policy. Relations with employees The collective agreements signed at Axway Axway Software SA Software SA in 2019 are the following: Until October 2019, social dialogue at Axway Software SA ● Agreement on Axway’s Social and Economic Committee; revolved around a Works Council, a Health, Safety and ● Amendment to the 2018-2020 profit-sharing agreement; Working Conditions Committee, staff representatives ● Amendment to the Group’s scope with a view to setting and three trade unions (CGT, CFDT & TRAID UNION). up a Group Committee; Since 4 October 2019, this dialogue has been conducted ● Agreement on electronic voting for elections of SEC within the framework of an SEC, Social and Economic members. Committee, elected for 4 years. The 3 trade union organisations mentioned above are represented there. 6 collective agreements were signed at Axway GmbH in 2019 with the works council: Labour relations at Axway GmbH ● Bonus Plan 2019 At Axway Gmbh, employer-employee dialogue takes place through three Plant Committees and a Central Works ● Sales Policy & Plans 2019 Council. ● Prodpad Overview of collective agreements ● Salary increases (3 locations) Within Axway, 70 agreements were in force at ● On-Call Duty updated (3 locations) 31 December 2019. In 2019, four agreements were signed ● Overtime updated in France and six were signed in Germany. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 27 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Methodology note Health and safety information Scope of consolidation and indicators The safety indicators concern all Axway sites. The indicators chosen are those used for the management of Axway sites. They reflect the results of Axway’s policy regarding the environment,health and safety. Health and safety conditions at Axway Occupational health Software SA In Germany, like in France, an occupational health doctor In 2019, the CHSCT (Health, Safety and Working performs employee check-ups on a regular basis. Conditions Committee) held four meetings. Awareness-raising actions were conducted at French During this period, there were: sites concerning on-screen work. In addition, Axway ● three work-related or commuting accidents with lost Software called in an ergonomist to carry out work on time. workstation positions. Preserving the health and safety of employees is a Evaluation of psychosocial risks fundamental goal and an integral part of the Human A steering committee comprised of members from Resources and social policy. The objective is part of an Human Resources and representatives from CHSCT was overall procedure conducted in close collaboration with the assembled in 2015 to evaluate psychosocial risks within occupational health doctors, site managers and CHSCT. Axway France. It regularly continues this work, monitoring the situation. Summary of collective agreements concerning health No agreement has been signed in this regard. 28 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Certificate of disclosure by an Independent Third-Party Certificate of disclosure by an Independent Third-Party Verifying auditor's report Year ended 31 December 2019 This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language ant it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Dear Shareholders, Further to a request by Axway Software (hereinafter the “entity”) and in our capacity as an independent third party certified by COFRAC under number 3-1081 (scope available at www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report on the consolidated non-financial performance statement for the year ended 31 December 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), presented in the Group management report, in accordance with the legal and regulatory provisions of Article L.225 102-1, R.225-105 and R.225-105-1 of the Commercial Code. Responsibility of the entity However, it is not our responsibility tocomment on: ● the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and Pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements, the Board of regulatory provisions, in particular the French duty of care Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, which law and anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation; must include a presentation of the business model, a ● the compliance of products and services with the description of the principal non-financial risks, a presentation applicable regulations. of the policies implemented in light of those risks and the outcome of said policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared in accordance Nature and extent of work with the benchmarks used by the entity (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of which are available at We conducted our work in accordance with standards request at the Company’s registered office. applicable in France determining the conditions in which an independent third party performs its engagement and with the international standard, ISAE 3000. Independence and quality control Our work was conducted between 5 March and 2 April 2020 Our independence is defined by the provisions of and took approximately five man-days. Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the We conducted five interviews with the individuals responsible Code of Ethics of the profession. In addition, we have for preparing the Statement. implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical Our procedures allowed us to assess the consistency of the requirements, French professional standards and applicable Statement with regulatory provisions and the fairness of the legal and regulatory requirements. Information: ● we obtained an understanding of the activities of all the companies included in the consolidated scope, the Responsibility of the independent description of the labour and environmental risks third-party associated with their activities, and the impact of those risks on compliance with human rights and anti-corruption On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a and tax evasion legislation, as well as the resulting policies reasoned opinion expressing a limited assurance conclusion and their outcomes; on: ● we assessed the appropriateness of the Guidelines with ● the consistency of the Statement with the provisions of respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, Article R. 225-105 of the Commercial Code; objectivity and understandability, with due consideration of ● the fairness of the information provided pursuant to industry best practices, whereappropriate; Article R. 225-105 I, 3 and II of the French Commercial ● we verified that the Statement covers each category of Code, i.e., the outcome of the policies, including key information provided for in Article L. 225-102-1 III in social performance indicators, and the measures implemented in and environmental matters, as well as respect for human light of the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). rights and the fight againstcorruption and tax evasion; ● we verified that the Statement includes an explanation for the absence of the information required under Article L. 225-102-1 III, 2; EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 29 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 Certificate of disclosure by an Independent Third-Party ● we verified that the Declaration presents the business ● tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to model and the main risks related to the activity of all verify the proper application of the definitions and entities included in the scope of consolidation, including, procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting where relevant and proportionate, the risks created by its documents. This work was carried out with a selection business relationships, products or services as well as its of contributing entities(1) and covers between 30% and policies, actions and results, including key performance 100% of the consolidated data relating to the key indicators; performance indicators and outcomes selected for ● we verified, when they are relevant to the main risks or the these tests(2), policies presented, that the Statement presents the ● we referred to documentary sources and conducted information provided for in Article R. 225-105 II; interviews to corroborate the qualitative information ● we assessed the selection and validation process of the (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the main risks; most important, ● we asked about the existence of internal control and risk ● we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement management procedures put in place by the entity; based on our knowledge of all the companies included in the consolidated scope. ● we assessed the consistency of the results and key performance indicators adopted in view of the main risks We believe that the work we carried out in exercising our and policies presented; professional judgement allows us to make a conclusion of moderate assurance; a higher level of assurance would have ● we verified that the Statement covers the scope of required more extensive work. consolidation, i.e. all the companies included in the consolidated scope in accordance with Article L. 233-16; Due to the use of sampling techniques, as well as other limits ● we assessed the collection process implemented by the inherent to the operation of any information and internal entity for the completeness andsincerity of Information; control system, the risk of failure to detect material misstatements in the Statement cannot beentirely eliminated. ● for the key performance indicators and other quantitative results that we considered to be the most important, we implemented: Conclusion ● analytical procedures consisting in verifying the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that of any changes in data, causes us to believe that the non-financial performance statement is not in accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly and in accordance with the Guidelines. Lyon, 8 April 2020 FINEXFI Isabelle Lhoste Partner (1) Axway Software SA, Axway US (2) 2019 key figures (Chapter 3.1), key figures and major talent recruitment actions (3.1.1.1), key figures and major development actions in 2019 (3.1.2.1), absenteeism (3.1.2.2), key figures and major actions to strengthen equality in 2019 (3.1.3.1), the Group's carbon footprint (3.3.1) and waste (3.3.2). 30 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com Cross-reference table of the Global Compact Principles Page Global Compact Principles Social 7 3,4,5,6 Fight against corruption 3 10 Human rights 3, 17 1,2 Environnemental 21 7,8,9 31 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.fr AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 HR and environmental information cross-reference table HR and environmental information cross-reference table (*Universal Registration Document) Article 225 and decrees of 19/08/2016 and 09/08/2017 NFPS Axway Group GP(1) General reporting principles Page* Name Comment GP1 The NFPS mentioned in I of Article L. 225-102-1 Profile Business model (A. R. 225-105. I-) and the consolidated non-financial pages 12-13 performance statement mentioned in II of the same article present the business model of the Company or, as the case may be, of all the companies for which the Company prepares consolidated financial statements. GP2 For each information category, they also Chapter 2 Risk Factors See specifically (A. R. 225-105. I-) present: pages 37-51 Risk Factors the Sections in Chapter 2 1° A description of the main risks related to the business of the Company or of the group of companies, including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks created by its business relationships, products or services; 2° a description of the policies applied by the Company or all companies, including, where applicable, the due diligence procedures implemented to prevent, identify and mitigate the occurrence of the risks mentioned in 1°; 3° The results of these policies, including key performance indicators. (Decree of 09/08/2017) GP3 Where the Company does not have a policy Axway applies a policy (A. R. 225-105. I-) with respect to one or more of these risks, to all risks that affect it. the statement includes a clear and reasoned explanation of the reasons justifying this. (Decree of 09/08/2017). GP4 The information published is presented “in See specifically (A. R. 225-105.1 I-) such a way as to allow a comparison of the the Sections in Chapter 2 data” (Law of 12/07/2010). The report of the Board of Directors or Management Board “presents the data observed during the financial year ended and, if necessary, during the previous financial year, so as to allow a comparison between this data” (decree of 24/04/2012). GP5 When a company voluntarily complies with a pages 55, 68 Support for the (A. R. 225-105.1 II-) national or international reference system in Global Compact order to fulfil its obligations under this article, Adhesion to the it mentions this fact, indicating the Middlenext Code recommendations of this reference system that have been adopted and the procedures for consulting it (decree of 24/04/2012). GP6 Without prejudice to the disclosure Group https://investors.axway.com/ en (A. R. 225-105.1 III-) requirements applicable to the report provided website et for in Article L. 225-100, these statements are https://investors.axway.com/fr made freely available to the public and easily accessible on the Company’s website within eight months of the end of the financial year and for a period of five years. (Decree of 09/08/2017). EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 32 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 HR and environmental information cross-reference table Article 225 and decrees of 19/08/2016 and 09/08/2017 NFPS Axway Group GP(1) General reporting principles Page Name Comment GP7 The independent third party mentioned in V of pages 81-82 Certificate of (A. R. 225-105.2 I-) Article L. 225-102-1 is appointed, as the case disclosure and may be, by the Chief Executive Officer or the opinion of fairness Chairman of the Management Board, for a concerning social, period not exceeding six financial years, from societal and among the bodies accredited for this purpose environmental by the French Accreditation Committee information. (COFRAC) or by any other accreditation body that is a signatory to the multilateral recognition agreement established by the European Coordination of Accreditation Bodies. The independent third party is subject to the incompatibilities provided for in Article L. 822-11-3. GP7 When the information is published by (A. R. 225-105.2 II-) companies whose thresholds exceed €100 million for the balance sheet total or €100 million for the net revenue and 500 for the average number of permanent employees employed during the financial year, the report of the independent third party includes: a) A reasoned opinion on the conformity of the statement with the provisions of I and II of Article R. 225-105, as well as on the fairness of the information provided pursuant to 3° of I and II of Article R. 225-105; b) The due diligences carried out in conducting the verification procedures. (Decree of 09/08/2017). GP8 The defined companies which are under the (A. L. 225-102-1. IV) control of a company which includes them in its Consolidated accounts in accordance with Article L. 233-16 are not required to publish a statement on non-financial performance if the Company that controls them is established in France and publishes a consolidated statement on non-financial performance or if the Company that controls them is established in another Member State of the European Union and publishes such a statement pursuant to the legislation to which it is subject. (Order of 19/07/2017). GP9 For companies whose balance sheet total or (A. L. 225-102-1. V) revenue and number of employees exceed the thresholds set by decree of the Conseil d’État, where applicable on a consolidated basis, the information contained in the statements is verified by an independent third party, in accordance with the procedures set by decree of the Conseil d’État. This verification gives rise to a notice which is sent to the shareholders at the same time as the report referred to in the second paragraph of Article L. 225-100. (Ordinance of 19/07/2017). Human Resources information I.a) Employment I.a) 1.1 Total workforce page 60 I.a) 1.2 Breakdown of employees by gender page 60 I.a) 1.3 Breakdown of employees by age page 60 I.a) 1.4 Breakdown of employees by geographic area page 60 I.a) 2.1 Recruitment pages 61-62 I.a) 2.2 Redundancies Non material 33 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 HR and environmental information cross-reference table Article 225 and decrees of 19/08/2016 and 09/08/2017 NFPS Axway Group GP(1) General reporting principles Page Name Comment I.a) 3.1 Compensation pages 60, 68 I.a) 3.2 Change in compensation page 68 I.b) Organisation of work I.b) 1 Organisation of working time page 65 I.b) 2 Absenteeism page 65 I.c) Health and safety I.c) 1 Health and safety conditions at work page 80 I.c) 2.1 Frequency and seriousness of workplace page 80 accidents I.c) 2.2 Occupational diseases Non material I.d) Relations with employees I.d) 1 Organisation of the social dialogue, in particular pages 65, 79 the procedures for informing staff, consulting and negotiating with them I.d) 2 Review of collective agreements, particularly pages 79-80 in the area of health and safety at work I.e) Training I.e) 1 Training policies implemented, including page 62-64 environmental protection policies. I.e) 2 Total number of training hours page 63 I.f) Equal treatment I.f) 1 Measures taken in favour of gender equality page 61, 66-67 I.f) 2.1 Measures taken in favour of employment pages 66-67 I.f) 2.2 Measures taken for the integration of people pages 67, 70 with disabilities I.f) 3 Anti-discrimination policy page 70 Environmental information II.a) General environmental policy II.a) 1.1 Organisation of the Company to take pages 73-78 environmental issues into account II.a) 1.2 Environmental evaluation or certification page 71 Ecovadis procedures II.a) 2 Resources dedicated to the prevention of Non material Non material Axway is not affected by this environmental risks and pollution point due to its tertiary activity. II.a) 3 Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks II.b) Pollution Non material Non material II.b) 1.1 Prevention, reduction, repair measures: AIR II.b) 1.2 Prevention, reduction, repair measures: WATER II.b) 1.3 Prevention, reduction, repair measures: SOIL II.b) 2 Consideration of any form of contamination specific to any activity, notably sound and light disturbances EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 34 AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 HR and environmental information cross-reference table Article 225 and decrees of 19/08/2016 and 09/08/2017 NFPS Axway Group GP(1) General reporting principles Page Name Comment II.c) Circular economy II.c).i) Waste prevention and management page 78 II.c).i) 1 Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, pages 74-75, other forms of waste recovery and disposal 78 II.c).i) 2 Actions in the fight against food waste Non material Non material The premises in La Défense (France) have a company restaurant committed to the fight against food waste(2). II.c).ii) Sustainable use of resources II.c).ii) 1.1 Water consumption Non material Non material Axway uses only water for sanitary purposes in its tertiary activity. The premises are equipped with efficient technology in this area. II.c).ii) 1.2 Water supply in keeping with local constraints Axway does not operate in countries where the use of water is restricted. II.c).ii) 2.1 Raw material consumption Non material Non material Axway uses only paper and office supplies for its tertiary II.c).ii) 2.2 Measures taken to improve efficiency activity. in their use II.c).ii) 3.1 Energy consumption pages 74-75 II.c).ii) 3.2 Measures taken to improve energy efficiency II.c).ii) 3.3 Measures taken to improve the use of renewable energies II.c).ii) 4 Soil use Non material Non material Axway is not affected by this point due to its tertiary activity. Axway leases its premises and does not carry out any construction work. II.d) Climate change II.d) 1 The significant greenhouse gas emissions pages 75-77 Scope: France, Germany, generated by the Company’s activities, in Bulgaria, Romania, USA particular by the use of the goods and services (Phoenix), Ireland it produces II.d) 2 Adaptation to the consequences Non material Non material Axway is not directly concerned of climate change by this point, but its products and services enable some of its customers to adapt to climate change (for example: management of local authorities’ data flows to optimise the multimodal mobility of their citizens). II.d) 3 Voluntary mediumand long-term reduction page 78 targets set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the means implemented to this end 35 EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT axway.com AXWAY GROUP RISK CORPORATE CORPORATE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL AXWAY SOFTWARE LEGAL AND COMBINED GENERAL AND ITS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL SHARE CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE MEETING ACTIVITIES STATEMENTS STATEMENTS AND SHARES INFORMATION OF 3 JUNE 2020 HR and environmental information cross-reference table Article 225 and decrees of 19/08/2016 and 09/08/2017 NFPS Axway Group GP(1) General reporting principles Page Name Comment II.e) Protection of biodiversity II.e) 1 Measures implemented to protect Non material Non material Axway is not affected by this and conserve biodiversity point due to its tertiary activity. Societ al information III.a) Societal commitments in favour of sustainable pages 70-72 development III.a) 1 The impact of the Company’s activity in terms pages 62-63, of employment and local development 70 III.a) 2 The impact of the Company’s activity on Non material Non material Axway is not affected by this neighbouring or local communities point due to its tertiary activity. III.a) 3 Relationships with the Company’s stakeholders pages 56-57, and the methods of dialogue with them 68 III.a) 4 Partnership and corporate patronage initiatives pages 70-71 III.b) Subcontractors and suppliers III.b) 1 Integration of social and environmental criteria page 77 in the purchasing policy III.b) 2 Integration of social and environmental page 77 responsibilities in relations with suppliers and subcontractors III.c) Fair practices pages 68-69 III.c) Measures taken for consumer health Non material Non material Axway is not affected by this and safety point due to its tertiary activity. Its products and services have no impact on the health and safety of consumers. Information on the fight against corruption and tax evasion(3) Actions taken to prevent corruption Information on actions in favour of human rights pages 55, 68 V.a) Promoting and complying with the pages 55, Fundamental Conventions of the International 68-69 Labour Organisation (ILO) V.a) 1 Respecting freedom of association and the Non material Non material By its adhesion to the Global right to collective bargaining Compact, Axway is committed to these issues but does not V.a) 2 Elimination of employment and professional operate in countries considered discrimination to be high-risk. V.a) 3 Elimination of forced or compulsory labour V.a) 4 Effective abolition of child labour V.b) Other actions taken in favour of human rights (1) GP: General Reporting Principles. (2) The following themes (to be addressed obligatorily in the NFPS): fighting against food insecurity, respect for animal welfare and responsible, fair and sustainable food are not material for Axway. (3) The Group is tax-transparent and wishes its tax policy to be an inherent part of its corporate responsibility strategy. The Group therefore adopts a civic behaviour that consists not only in complying with the legislation, but above all in making a fair contribution to the countries in which it operates. EXTRACT 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 36 France Tour W 102 Terrasse Boieldieu 92085 Paris La Défense Cedex P: +33 (0) 1.47.17.24.24 F: +33 (0) 1.47.17.22.23 USA 6811 E. Mayo Boulevard, Suite 400 Phœnix, Arizona 85054 P: +1.480.627.1800 F: +1.480.627.1801 Web site www.investors.axway.com/en www.axway.com
