CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 INTRODUCTION 23 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET 4 A Message From Our CEO 25 Environmental Compliance 6 About This Report 26 Energy 6 Our 2025 Sustainability Goals 27 Emissions 8 Our Communication On Progress 28 Waste & Spills 9 About Cabot 30 Water 11 Engaging With Our Stakeholders 12 Our Continued Commitment 32 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER To Responsible Care® 33 Economic Value Generated & Distributed 35 Product Sustainability 13 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 36 Suppliers’ Sustainability 14 Occupational Health & Safety 17 Retention, Development & Diversity 38 GRI CONTENT INDEX 21 Community Engagement 47 SASB CHEMICALS INDEX 2 CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION 4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 OUR 2025 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 8 OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 ABOUT CABOT 11 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 12 OUR CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE CARE® 3 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO SEAN D. KEOHANE President and Chief Executive Officer Our Sustainability Journey At Cabot, we have a long history of focusing intensely a proud signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on the environmental impacts of our operations and the (UNGC) and are committed to reporting our progress as a safety of our employees, partners and communities. We key component of our sustainability report. are proud of our industry-leading performance, and this Reflecting on 2019, I can confidently say that we advanced commitment is deeply rooted in our culture. Over time, the key objectives of our sustainability program. Our safety our approach to sustainability has evolved beyond a performance remains in the top quartile of our industry. foundation of safety, health and the environment to include Innovation is a critical dimension of our sustainability a greater focus on our broad set of stakeholders, including agenda, and we are committed to further embedding employees, customers, suppliers and investors. At Cabot, sustainability into our product development engagements we believe that long-term success requires a commitment with customers. A great example of this is the work we are to sustainability in its broadest form as well as a balanced doing to help plastics converters address sustainability approach to stakeholder management. challenges from their customers. We recently launched a Our 2025 sustainability goals, announced with the new black masterbatch series that utilizes postindustrial publishing of this report, demonstrate our steadfast and reclaimed carbon as well as recycled polymers. These commitment to this broad definition of sustainability. This formulations are specifically designed to help the value ambitious set of targets will drive our actions on a wide chain lower its carbon footprint and increase the amount range of sustainability themes that we believe are most of recycled and secondary content in end products. In line critical not only to our success but to the world around us. with our sustainability objectives, we became a signatory Our effort and goals are focused in three areas: (1) Caring to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy for our people and communities, 2) Acting responsibly for Global Commitment. We have also pledged to take actions the planet, and (3) Building a better future together. These in our European masterbatch facilities to reduce plastic goals will inspire our teams as they engage in a relentless waste as part of the Operation Clean Sweep® program. pursuit of solutions to the sustainability challenges of our We are excited and proud of our new product innovations customers, our communities and our world. for lithium-ion battery and tire applications. Lithium-ion While our goals motivate us, goals without measurement batteries are central to the growth of vehicle electrification and transparency are incomplete. At Cabot, we have and alternative energy storage, and our LITX® family published our sustainability reports in accordance with of conductive carbon additives plays an integral role the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In an effort to further in improving battery performance. In the tire industry, our commitment to transparency and to provide useful our customers seek to extend product life as well as information to our shareholders, we have also aligned increase fuel economy. These objectives can be optimized our disclosures in this report with the Sustainability through our transformational Cabot Engineered Elastomer Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework, which sets Composites, which use a unique mixing technology forth standards for the chemical industry. We also remain that enables greater performance of the rubber, leading 4 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT to a more sustainable product. This technology was from the military to the civilian workforce. I am personally first commercialized with Michelin, and we have since involved in this program, and I have found it immensely extended the platform more broadly to the tire industry. fulfilling to support our brave service members through this I am particularly proud of the growing third-party important transition. Finally, I was also honored to join recognition we continue to receive for our leading CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™, a coalition of more environmental, social and governance performance. than 800 company CEOs pledging to advance D&I in We were honored to be ranked by CR Magazine as one the workplace. of their 100 Best Corporate Citizens. We earned a Gold I am encouraged by our sustainability progress and rating from EcoVadis for the fourth consecutive year, optimistic about our promising future. Of course, none of and we were named one of America’s Most Responsible our achievements would be possible without the hard Companies 2020 by Newsweek. Recognition like this work and dedication of our employees around the world, further validates our commitment to transparency who work tirelessly to ensure we are making progress, and our outstanding sustainability performance. achieving our goals and living up to our commitments. As part of our sustainability journey, we also recognize With our 2025 goals as our guide, we will continue our that in order to attract, retain and develop a world-class relentless pursuit of opportunities to advance the way team, we must foster a diverse and inclusive culture that we do business — both responsibly and profitably. supports our employees’ success, which, in turn, drives We are excited to share our achievements in this our company’s success. I am proud of our continued report and welcome you to further explore our work at leadership on this front, led by our strong and diverse cabotcorp.com/sustainability. board and executive management team. We strive to create a safe and open environment where everyone is Regards, supported to contribute to our success, and in 2019 we made significant progress in our diversity and inclusion (D&I) strategy through diversity awareness training and the launch of our first Employee Resource Group. We also Sean D. Keohane partnered with American Corporate Partners (ACP) through its mentorship program to assist veterans in their transition GRI: 102-12, 102-14, 102-54 “At Cabot, we believe that long-term success requires a commitment to sustainability in its broadest form as well as a balanced approach to stakeholder management. 5 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT This report serves as our annual Sustainability Report and by subject matter experts within the organization and, in has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: the case of our greenhouse gas emissions, undergoes Core option. For the first time, our 2019 report also aligns biennial verification by an independent third party, which with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is scheduled to be conducted again in 2021 for 2019 and framework, which enables reporting on sustainability 2020 data. information of most interest to our shareholders and This report describes Cabot’s sustainability strategy and prospective investors. This report serves as our annual how it relates to our business and the interests of our Communication on Progress (COP) in support of our stakeholders. The content focuses on the 11 sustainability commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). topics that were found to be most relevant through a Our last sustainability report was published in June 2019. comprehensive materiality assessment completed in 2017. The data and information covered in this report represent our Dedicated sections describe our performance and vision for performance across all significant Cabot locations for which improvement in each of these 11 areas. For ease of review, we had operational control and majority ownership during we have divided these topics into three chapters reflecting the 2019 calendar year, except for the financial data, which the key focus areas of our sustainability commitment, reflects Cabot’s 2019 fiscal year (October 1, 2018 through including Caring for Our People and Communities, Acting September 30, 2019). The data also reflects the divestiture Responsibly for the Planet and Building a Better Future of our Specialty Fluids business, which was completed in Together. Throughout the report, markers are provided to June 2019. To ensure the highest level of data integrity, we indicate the correlation between material topics, the GRI maintain databases for safety and environmental incident Standards and the SASB framework. tracking, greenhouse gas emissions, finance and human GRI: 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56 resources. This data is collected, analyzed and reviewed OUR 2025 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS As an industry leader, we understand our responsibility to continuously improve our sustainability performance. In our view, sustainability extends beyond just safety, health and environmental factors to encompass subjects of importance to all of our stakeholders. Consistent with this broadened definition of sustainability, our 2025 sustainability goals will drive our actions on a wide range of sustainability themes that we believe are most critical not only to our success but to the world around us. Our 2025 goals, included on page 7 of this report, are aligned with our three sustainability focus areas and the topics that are most material to our stakeholders, tied to our 11 highly material topics as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We first launched sustainability goals back in 2012 and are proud of the progress we have made toward meeting, and in some cases exceeding, these goals. As our sustainability focus and program have progressed over the years, we are challenging ourselves to accomplish even more between now and 2025. We look forward to achieving continuous improvement across all of these areas in coming years. 6 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2025 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Highly Material Topics UN Sustainable Development Goals OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY We will reduce injuries and significant process safety events by 50%. RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT We will foster an environment where employees CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES report high levels of inclusion and support for their professional development. We will increase diverse representation in leadership and professional roles. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We will actively engage in our communities at 100% of our locations. We will contribute $10M in financial donations to help our communities thrive. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We will externally certify the environmental management systems in place at 100% of our operating locations. ENERGY ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET We will export 200% of the amount of energy imported and reduce energy intensity by 10%. EMISSIONS We will reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 20%. We will reduce NOX emissions intensity by 50% and SO2 emissions intensity by 40%. WASTE & SPILLS We will reduce waste by 20% and ultimately eliminate disposal of manufacturing waste. WATER We will reduce water withdrawal intensity by 20%. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED We will invest $1B in capital and technology to sustain and grow our operations and portfolio. PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY We will conduct assessments of the sustainability impacts of our top product applications and their BUILDING A BETTER position in the circular economy. FUTURE TOGETHER 100% of our product and process development projects will have a sustainability benefit. SUPPLIERS’ SUSTAINABILITY We will engage with our key suppliers to improve our collective sustainability performance. GRI: 102-47 | SASB: RT-CH-110a.2, RT-CH-140a.3 7 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Since 2015, we have been a proud signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and remain committed to making progress with respect to the 10 principles within the categories of environment, labor, human rights and anti-corruption. Environment reflects the diversity of our operations and are committed We are dedicated to understanding and managing our to providing equal opportunity for all employees at all environmental impacts on the world. We recognize the levels, as demonstrated by our CEO joining the CEO Action numerous environmental issues facing our planet and for Diversity and Inclusion. As one of our core values, we fully accept our responsibility to reduce our environmental respect the differences of all our employees and have zero footprint to the greatest extent possible across our tolerance for discrimination on the basis of ethnic or racial global operations. To this end, we have developed status, color, nationality, descent, religion, caste, gender, initiatives to minimize the environmental impact of our age, physical characteristics or appearance, sexual business, conserve resources and promote environmental orientation, union membership or political affiliation. We are awareness. This commitment is underscored by the fact fully compliant with all requirements stemming from labor that the majority of the topics identified as most material legislation and collective agreements in the countries in to our sustainability program are environmentally related. which we operate. Globally, our efforts are focused on reducing energy usage, emissions and waste. We also recognize that we must Human Rights monitor our use of water, an important natural resource, We are committed to conducting our business with and are working across our network of facilities to develop integrity and believe that it is our responsibility to respect a strategic water management plan to identify water human rights with regard to our employees, suppliers, reduction, recycling and efficiency opportunities. We have customers and communities. We firmly believe that reevaluated and expanded our 2025 sustainability goals every individual deserves to be treated with dignity, to push ourselves even further between now and 2025. honesty, integrity, respect and fairness. We are guided by We continuously monitor our progress toward these 2025 international standards embodied in the United Nations targets and other environmental metrics. Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the International Labor Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; Supporting the safety and well-being of our workforce is and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration our top priority. We work diligently to ensure the safety on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our of our employees, contractors, visitors and communities commitment is also explicitly covered in our Code of where we operate. We maintain our sharp focus on safety Business Ethics and in our formal Human Rights Policy. by ensuring all employees, contractors and visitors are well We also require that our suppliers comply with our Code trained and equipped with everything they need to return of Business Ethics, which in some cases demands higher home each day the same as they arrived at our facilities. In standards than required by local law. Pursuant to the addition, we recognize the benefit of promoting wellness California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, we have across our workforce and offer numerous opportunities posted on our website a statement that suppliers are to promote employees’ wellness inside and outside of expected to comply with all applicable laws and standards work while creating a healthier, more engaged culture. In related to labor practices and human rights. addition to safety, we strive to ensure our organization 8 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Anti-Corruption through which they learn how to identify potential risks of corruption and how such matters should be addressed. We require that all employees, suppliers and customers Depending on the employee’s role and job responsibilities, conduct business in accordance with the highest ethical supplementary training may also be required to uphold our standards and in full compliance with all applicable high expectations for ethical business conduct. In addition, anti-bribery laws and regulations, which is vital to the to facilitate the reporting of potential or suspected success of our business. Our position is that all forms of misconduct or noncompliance, including bribery-related corruption, including bribery and extortion, are unethical, activities, we provide a reporting hotline through which unacceptable and inconsistent with our values and our employees can confidentially report issues or matters Code of Business Ethics. In support of this position, we of concern. have developed detailed policies, compliance procedures and training. All employees are required to undergo training GRI: 102-12 on the Code of Business Ethics on an annual basis, ABOUT CABOT Cabot Corporation is a leading global specialty chemicals around the world. Our global network consists of and performance materials company headquartered in approximately 4,500 employees in 60 facilities in more Boston, Massachusetts, USA, that has provided innovative than 20 countries, including 43 manufacturing sites, performance solutions to customers for over 135 years. global research and development capabilities at eight We are a leading provider of rubber and specialty carbons, locations, and sales and administrative staff in more fumed metal oxides, masterbatches and conductive than 25 locations. compounds, activated carbon, inkjet colorants and inks As part of our efforts to further our Advancing the Core and aerogel. strategy, in 2019 we completed the divestiture of our We strive to be the most innovative, respected Specialty Fluids business to Sinomine (Hong Kong) Rare and responsible leader in our markets — delivering Metals Resources Co. Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary performance that makes a difference. As a market of Sinomine Resource Group Co., Ltd., in a transaction leader, we collaborate with customers to find innovative valued at $135 million. The transaction allowed us to solutions that will help them advance their own products focus our resources on advantaged growth initiatives for a wide range of industries, from transportation and in our core businesses including key expansions in our infrastructure to environment and consumer goods. We carbon black and fumed metal oxides businesses. In know that the properties our products impart — from 2019, we celebrated the grand opening of a fumed silica durability and lightweighting to improved fuel efficiency manufacturing facility in Wuhai, China. The state-of— give us the opportunity to help our customers address the-art facility adds approximately 8,000 metric tons of key sustainability challenges. We look to advance in annual fumed silica capacity to our global network and is these areas with a continued focus on improving the essential to meeting the growing demand of the fumed performance of both our materials and the end products silica market in China. The project is a joint venture with in which they are used. Inner Mongolia Hengyecheng Silicone Co., Ltd. (HYC), and We are known as one of the global leaders in safety, was completed without a single recordable injury among health and environmental (SH&E) performance, and we employees and contractors. continuously invest in sustainability, motivated in large GRI: 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10, 102-12, 103-1 part by the commitment and drive of our colleagues 9 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Locations Values and Ethics of Business Ethics in addition to more focused training based on job responsibilities. We provide this training in We are committed to promoting an ethical business culture 13 different languages to our global employees. The Code that is rooted in our core values of integrity, respect, covers topics such as the importance of treating each excellence and responsibility. These values ensure that other with mutual respect, interacting with our customers we are operating ethically and transparently, and are and other stakeholders with a high standard of ethics, and fundamental to our relationships with our customers, serving our communities in a responsible manner. The partners, distributors, shareholders and colleagues all Office of Compliance, which reports to the Audit Committee over the globe. Our Code of Business Ethics establishes of the Board of Directors, oversees the implementation of the standards of ethical behavior and business conduct the Code and overall compliance with laws and regulations. that we expect throughout our organization. Each year, all employees are required to complete training on our Code GRI: 102-16 10 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Being a responsible corporate citizen requires maintaining several points of contact, such as supervisors, the Office positive relationships with our various stakeholder of Compliance or the Cabot hotline. Manufacturing facilities groups. We diligently seek opportunities to engage have formal processes to engage the local community, with our customers, investors, employees, potential including the use of Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) employees, suppliers, regulators and communities and and Community Open Days where community members welcome their feedback on how our activities impact visit our facilities and interact directly with Cabot their respective interests, as summarized in the table employees regarding the plant operations, emissions below. Our interaction with these groups can take many and operating practices. forms, including employee meetings, “open days” at our In 2019, we further engaged our employees around our manufacturing facilities when we welcome our neighbors sustainability program through our first annual Global to visit, recruiting events, in-person meetings, and the Sustainability Day. The celebration acted as a time for our use of social media to highlight key community initiatives employees around the world to stop their daily work and and company news. We believe it is important for our learn about sustainability, what it means to Cabot, and stakeholders to understand not just the nature of our how it encompasses our long-standing safety goals as business, but also our ongoing commitment to improving well as our commitment to pursue sustainable solutions. our sustainability performance and investing in research This day of learning is just one part of a continuous and and innovation. evolving program to raise awareness about sustainability Our open-door policy provides the framework for throughout our organization. employees to raise concerns and report violations of GRI: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 | SASB: RT-CH-210a.1 corporate policies or the law. Employees may utilize STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS Business performance, value of our work, strategic Meetings, executive briefings, training sessions, Employees initiatives and vision, policy and organizational surveys, regular intranet communication structure, benefits and compensation, safety Social media, college campus visits, Sustainability performance, company Potential Employees interviews, internships, job recruitment sites, values, community engagement, benefits employee referrals and compensation Plant operations, safety, environmental Plant visits, open days, sponsorships, stewardship, emergency response planning, Communities engagement programs, foundation activities, compliance programs, emissions, sponsorships, social media, website community sponsorships, local engagement Sales calls, surveys, technical information Business performance, sustainability, satisfaction exchanges, plant visits, complaint resolution, surveys, technical solutions, product quality and Customers trade shows, trade magazines, social media, performance, cost, production plans, product customer portals, website safety and regulatory information Presentations, supplier agreements, audits and Performance criteria and expectations, Suppliers performance assessments, supplier summits, sustainability, safety trade shows, trade magazines Annual report, quarterly disclosures, sustainability Business performance, strategy, execution, Investors report, annual meeting, individual meetings, social material disclosures, sustainability media, website, business and trade news Plant visits, training sessions, technical Compliance reporting, problem solving, Regulators information exchanges, inspections technical information, sustainability 11 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE CARE ® Since joining the American Chemistry Council (ACC) in 2010, we have embraced the chemical industry’s voluntary Responsible Care® initiative. Through the Responsible Care initiative and the Responsible Care Global Charter, we have made a commitment to improve our health, safety, environmental and security performance throughout the organization. As an active leader in Responsible Care, we are helping drive continuous improvement in the safety and sustainability of our products and operations around the globe. facility in Canada. In 2019, these facilities obtained recertification, and several of our U.S. manufacturing sites have received ACC awards in the Achievement and Excellence categories, demonstrating facility-level safety leadership. We are committed to acting in accordance The Responsible Care principles are closely aligned with the principles of Responsible Care on a global scale with our sustainability strategy, and we are an active and have applied them across our network. Specifically, supporter of these principles around the world. Our we continue to be a leader and promoter of Responsible participation signifies our deep belief in the value of Care in China. As a member of the Association of external engagement and third-party certification of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM), which our SH&E and security management systems. Through promotes Responsible Care in China, we are actively Responsible Care, we demonstrate our commitment to: engaged in leadership positions in the AICM’s environment, safety, emergency planning, production and process w c ontinuously improving the SH&E performance safety subcommittees. of our technologies, processes and products In 2019, we continued our journey to complete certification wm  onitoring the security of our sites and working for all of our facilities in China, building on our successful with our neighbors to prepare for and respond certifications at our Tianjin and Xingtai facilities. During to emergencies the year, both the Shanghai and Jiangxi facilities received w u sing resources wisely and minimizing waste RC14001 certification. We are also in the process of obtaining certification for the Shanghai Holding Office w p romoting responsible management of chemicals and Asia Technology Center while focusing on the future w c ommunicating openly with stakeholders certifications for our recently opened fumed silica plant in Wuhai and our specialty carbon plant in Xuzhou, currently Within this program, we have chosen to implement under construction. Due to our strong commitment to RC14001, which incorporates the requirements of both Responsible Care in China, AICM has awarded Cabot the Responsible Care and International Organization for Chairman’s Award for excellence in implementing the Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management Responsible Care program. systems, for our key manufacturing facilities and corporate headquarters in the United States and our carbon black GRI: 102-12 | SASB: RT-CH-210a.1 12 INTRODUCTION CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 14 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 17 RETENTION, DEVELOPMENT & DIVERSITY 21 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 13 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We recognize that our people are key to our ability to execute on our sustainability agenda. Our commitment to providing safe working conditions and involving all our employees in our safety efforts has been a fundamental part of Cabot’s history. This focus on safety helps us attract and retain top talent from around the world and helps ensure reliable performance in our manufacturing operations. We also offer our employees professional development opportunities and competitive compensation and benefits. We are committed to increasing employee engagement by leveraging the diversity and aspirations of our people and developing their talents by fostering an inclusive acceptance CARINGCARING FOR PEOPL OURPEOPLE FOR OUR & COMMUNITIES of diversity in its many forms throughout our workplace. To remain a competitive employer, AND COMMUNITIES we acknowledge the importance of our company values, our vision and our sustainability program to our employees, as we aim to continuously demonstrate our commitments and enhance our performance. Our commitments extend to our communities, where we strive to be a good neighbor through our active engagement and responsible business practices. We seek input and feedback from our communities and look for opportunities to contribute our time and resources so we can play a role in the growth and success of the areas where we operate. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our Commitment Our employees are our most valuable asset, and it is our responsibility as an employer to provide a safe work environment and promote wellness across the workforce. This focus on health and safety has been deeply ingrained at Cabot throughout our history and serves as a central theme in our culture. Our goal is for all employees to return home in the same condition as when they arrived at work. We also strive to help employees lead healthy lifestyles, through a variety of initiatives and benefits. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach safety procedures that meets or exceeds all applicable The Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability (SHE&S) government regulations and internal standards. Committee of Cabot’s Board of Directors has oversight of Through our global SH&E Policy, which is endorsed by our health and safety issues at the highest governance level. executive leadership, we hold ourselves accountable to Executive leadership for implementing related strategies demonstrate our company values and continuously improve and policies is provided by the senior vice president the way we operate. The policy includes guidance on: for SH&E, who oversees a global team of SH&E w complying with all applicable regulations professionals, including regional directors. SH&E and security are critical components of our culture. w s haring complete information about the safe As part of our Drive to Zero initiative, we have set a longhandling of our products term goal of having zero injuries at our facilities worldwide. wm  aintaining the safety and security of our Recognizing that it may take many years to achieve this employees, contractors and neighbors ambitious goal, in 2019 we adjusted our safety goal to achieve a 50% reduction through 2025. To help meet w minimizing impacts on our communities these goals, we provide training to all employees on 14 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT w exemplifying the Responsible Care Guiding Principles In the event of a recordable injury, process safety incident or high-potential near miss, a thorough incident evaluation w p artnering with customers to develop innovative is conducted to understand the root cause of the issue and sustainable solutions and assess how we may implement measures to avoid w improving efficiencies, reducing environmental similar safety risks in the future. We share the results of impacts and preparing for emergencies these evaluations globally, so all our sites can learn from the event and reduce similar risks. Our facilities are required to develop and implement a safety program that upholds the SH&E Policy and GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-1 meets all applicable health and safety laws, as well as Cabot standards. This program provides oversight for Our Performance all direct activities occurring in our facilities and within We believe that a strong safety culture contributes to our operational control, including impacts to employees, the overall success of our business. It allows us to retain contractors and visitors. Additionally, all Cabot facilities talent, remain operational and serve our customers as a organize local health and safety committees reliable partner. As a result, we are diligent in measuring representing employees, including those in formal and monitoring our related performance over the long term. joint management agreements. In 2019, we experienced a 15% increase in our total recordable As part of our commitment to Responsible Care, we incident rate (TRIR) across the organization when compared remain focused on continuously improving the health to the previous year. However, the number of days associated and safety of our technologies, processes and products. with these incidents declined, indicating the injuries in 2019 In accordance with this certification, we report our were less severe than those experienced in 2018. performance metrics annually and undergo external audits regularly to evaluate our program, identify gaps and In 2019, we implemented several changes to help make our undertake corrective actions as needed. In addition to the safety programs more efficient and robust. Our overall safety Responsible Care audits, our sites routinely undergo robust performance trend remains strong. We are proud that over internal SH&E audits, which evaluate procedures, practices 60% of our manufacturing locations worked injury-free in and site conditions in accordance with SH&E regulations, 2019 and more than 99.5% of our employees were injuryinternal company standards and industry-recognized best free. However, the increase in TRIR has caused us to renew practices. These risk-based audits are conducted by teams our efforts to ensure a strong safety culture throughout the of internal subject matter experts who are supported by organization, with a particular focus on the small number of external resources as needed. sites that have experienced the majority of injuries in recent years. We will not be satisfied until we achieve the goal of Additionally, a key factor in keeping our employees and our Drive to Zero initiative — no injuries at any of our facilities communities safe is our careful attention to process safety. worldwide. This drive requires that we continually look for This entails monitoring the condition and functionality of opportunities to further improve and strengthen our safety our processes, equipment and infrastructure to ensure management system. our operations are as safe and efficient as possible. Prior to initial unit startups and when significant changes to We refreshed educational campaigns to prevent hand and operations are required, preparedness assessments are finger injuries and to reduce hazards that may lead to slips, conducted by subject matter experts. We also carefully trips and falls, some of the leading causes of our injuries. track process safety events, defined by the Center for We focused on providing tools and sharing best practices to Chemical Process Safety as any unanticipated release of increase employees’ awareness of their surroundings and material or energy from a process that results in injury, fire, help employees avoid distractions by focusing on the task explosion or release of flammable, combustible or toxic at hand. chemicals. In accordance with the American Petroleum We began to use a more comprehensive contractor safety Institute’s recommended practice RP-754, we utilize the qualification process to help ensure we are selecting Tier 1 and Tier 2 categorization approach to track our partners whose SH&E values are in line with our own. This performance and report externally. Tier 1 events have process utilizes external support, which provides us with more significant consequences resulting from the loss of a more thorough review of the safety and environmental primary containment of our processes, while Tier 2 events performance of potential partners while freeing up our site have less significant consequences. SH&E professionals to focus on the day-to-day activities 15 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of our employees and visitors. This system is now in use Learning from the best — in our North American facilities, and we plan to expand it Cabot’s Chairman’s Award recipients throughout our global network. We implemented a global system for collecting and In 2019, our carbon black site in Shimonoseki, Japan, joined five other Cabot locations as recipients of our maintaining safety data sheets for the materials used Chairman’s Award. This recognition is given to those at our locations. The new system enables our sites manufacturing and research and development sites that to complete a more systematic review of chemicals have consistently demonstrated excellence in all areas of prior to use and provides our employees with the most SH&E performance. The Shimonoseki team attributes its current information on the chemicals we use in an easily success to a culture in which employees and contractors accessible way. communicate closely to identify and solve issues. Working together and helping each other are the norm, and all are We continued progress on a comprehensive review of our encouraged and expected to ask questions. corporate SH&E standards. These standards outline the These ideas align with the characteristics of our other minimum expectations set for all our locations worldwide Chairman’s Award recipients. At our Jiangxi, China site, and form the basis of our SH&E management system. With employees believe success comes from a supportive input from our global team, we looked for opportunities to culture where safety is considered a part of everyone’s job. Our facilities in Ravenna, Italy, and Midland, Michigan, simplify the standards, integrate a risk-based approach USA, also report high levels of dedication to safety by all and provide our plant-level SH&E professionals with the employees on-site and credit the learnings and support ability to meet requirements in ways best suited for their they get from other locations with helping them reduce locations. At the same time, we were careful to maintain, risk. In Port Dickson, Malaysia, consistent and effective and in some cases strengthen, the core requirements communications empower employees to highlight and that have supported our strong SH&E performance and mitigate any safety issues, with full support from the site leadership team. At our carbon black plant in Valmez, progress on our Drive to Zero. Czech Republic, a tragic accident that resulted in an As an example of a strengthened requirement, we added employee fatality in 2011 led to a complete rethinking of a layer of protection by requiring our employees and the site’s safety culture, with a focus on cooperation and collaboration. That site has since been a model for others contractors to reconsider possible changes to their in developing and advancing a safety management system. preliminary job safety analysis through the practice of a Our Chairman’s Award recipients span our businesses last-minute risk assessment (LMRA). This assessment, and geographies and represent the best of what conducted just prior to beginning or resuming work, Cabot can achieve through dedication and teamwork. provides an extra opportunity to focus attention on the specific task at hand and the current working conditions. The LMRA has been especially useful in reminding workers Process safety of the risks associated with routine tasks that, though 2019 was an important year for our Process Safety familiar, can often lead to injuries. Management (PSM) program, as we continued to GRI: 403-2 | SASB: RT-CH-320a.1 implement changes to our approach as a result of the comprehensive program review conducted in 2018. Our SAFETY RATES priorities included developing and implementing improved 2017 2018 2019 systems for categorizing process safety events and Injuries per 200,000 Work Hours Total Recordable Incident 0.47 0.40 0.46 providing additional education to our global PSM team. We conducted a series of webinar-based training sessions Lost Time 0.26 0.18 0.29 designed to promote improved understanding and sharing of best practices in PSM across our global network. PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, we experienced one Tier 1 event and 14 Tier 2 Tier 1 0 5 1 events. The Tier 1 event involved a spill that was contained on-site. The two main types of Tier 2 events were small, Tier 2 4 9 14 localized fires and losses of containment captured in our secondary containment systems, resulting in minimal environmental impact. One of the Tier 2 events did result in an injury to a contractor that required medical treatment but did not result in any lost work time. SASB: RT-CH-540a.1 16 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT With approximately 4,500 employees around the world department enables managers across the company to who represent a wide variety of backgrounds and make drive performance and employee development through conducting our business possible, we are committed the use of our performance management process and to celebrating the diversity of all Cabot employees and the implementation of our Code of Business Ethics and supporting them in realizing successful careers. our Human Rights Policy, which establish expectations for Reporting to the CEO, the senior vice president and chief professional conduct, strict adherence to labor practices human resources officer (CHRO) oversees programs and human rights laws, and the creation of a safe and and processes to attract, develop, retain and support healthy workplace. our employees and routinely updates the Board of GRI: 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-3 Directors on related initiatives. The Human Resources TOTAL WORKFORCE 4,547 GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY REGION 3,522 2,007 77+23T 44+31+25T 77% 44% 1,391 1,149 31% 1,025 25% 23% MALE FEMALE AMERICAS EMEA APAC GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP 11+89T 30+70T 27+73T 25+75T 7+93T < 30 Years Old 11% GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY CONTRACT 30 – 39 Years Old 30% 40 – 49 Years Old 27% 50 – 59 Years Old 25% 60 Years and Older 7% GENDER MALE FEMALE REGION AMERICAS EMEA APAC Permanent 3,489 78% 1,005 22% Permanent 1,987 44% 1,358 30% 1,149 26% Temporary 33 62% 20 38% Temporary 20 38% 33 62% 0 0% Full Time 3,489 79% 946 21% Full Time 1,987 45% 1,299 29% 1,149 26% Part Time 33 29% 79 71% Part Time 20 18% 92 82% 0 0% GRI: 405-1 17 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TURNOVER BY GENDER, REGION AND AGE GROUP GENDER MALE FEMALE REGION AMERICAS EMEA APAC Departing Company 463 13% 147 15% Departing Company 296 15% 212 16% 102 9% New Hires 279 8% 114 11% New Hires 147 7% 157 12% 89 8% AGE GROUP < 30 30 — 39 40 — 49 50 — 59 60 + Departing Company 100 22% 164 12% 133 11% 111 10% 102 26% New Hires 121 26% 138 10% 69 6% 55 5% 9 2% GRI: 102-8, 401-1 76+24T PERFORMANCE REVIEWS BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY 44% Clerical/Technical 3,436 31% Professional/Supervisor Global Workforce Receiving 25% Management/Experienced Performance Reviews 74% Male 76% 26% Female GRI: 404-3 RETENTION & DEVELOPMENT Our Commitment We understand that employees have a choice of where they work, and it is our goal to remain an employer that attracts and retains top talent. We depend on the broad range of skill sets and experiences from our workforce to be successful as a business and advance on our sustainability journey. At the same time, we seek diverse candidates for all positions, and we have deployed practices that help ensure all employees are treated fairly and equally by providing competitive benefits and professional development programs. By developing our employees’ knowledge and skills, we offer our people opportunities for advancement, enhance value for our customers and retain talent to further our leadership position. This also benefits our employees’ families and local communities by building intellectual capital and supporting broader economic stability. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Employment decisions are based on merit and Reporting to the CHRO, the director of talent management qualifications, regardless of race, color, national origin, and development is responsible for developing and religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran leading the execution of our talent strategy, focused on status or any other legally protected status. An in-house building our current and future talent pipeline, through the talent acquisition team leads outreach and recruitment development of our employees as well as the recruitment efforts suited to local market dynamics and business of external candidates. needs. We develop a talent pipeline by offering internships, 18 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT apprenticeships and training to students in many of Leader as Coach development program the communities in which we operate. In 2019, we introduced a new leadership development To ensure employees have their basic needs met in program, Leader as Coach, which focuses on developing order to live healthy and productive lives, we offer managers’ coaching skills to enhance their ability to coach comprehensive benefits programs that are designed to and develop their employees. Through a combination of meet or exceed what is required and standard for the self-paced study, interactive small-group virtual sessions, countries in which we operate. While our benefits vary on-the-job practice and one-on-one personal coaching by location, we typically provide healthcare, life and calls, participants learn various situational coaching styles, accidental insurance, disability, retirement and pension techniques and tools that help them unlock the potential in plans, business travel accident insurance, medical others so they can perform at their best. travel insurance, vacation, holiday and leave entitlement, Talent review and succession planning educational financial assistance, and access to retiree In 2019, we enhanced our talent review and succession medical coverage. planning process, deploying a robust set of criteria and We recognize the potential each employee brings to Cabot, tools to examine and strengthen our current bench, future and we are committed to our employees’ development to talent pipeline and potential successors for our senior help them realize this potential to its fullest. Our approach leadership positions. to development is multifaceted and encourages: GRI: 404-2 w o n-the-job development, including stretch assignments and rotations Employee engagement survey In 2019, we conducted our biannual Employee w continuous feedback from managers, mentors and peers Engagement Survey as part of our ongoing efforts to hear direct feedback about the Cabot work experience w formal learning opportunities, including leadership from colleagues across all roles globally. As part of this development programs, functional and technical skills effort, we introduced new themes in the survey to explore training, and professional conferences progress on our efforts to focus on culture as well as We utilize a performance-based management (PBM) diversity and inclusion. More than 91% of our employees approach, which is a year-round process through which around the globe completed the survey. Results were managers and employees work together to plan work and shared with employees, who were then encouraged set expectations, review progress and results, reward to contribute to action planning to address the key performance, and discuss development areas to support themes identified. performance improvement and career growth. As a means of maintaining a continuous focus on GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 401-2, 404-2 employee engagement, we are also using our survey results as an important measure of our sustainability goals Our Performance for retention, diversity and development. Actively engaging our employees to share their feedback helps drive action LEAD performance management approach to better foster an environment where everyone can We introduced a new leadership model, LEAD, which do their best work and enables us to assess current provides a clear view of what successful performance performance and track progress over time. for all employees looks like to help Cabot attract, develop GRI: 102-8, 103-3, 404-3 and retain the talent needed to successfully execute our strategy. LEAD is an acronym for learn, engage, assess and drive, representing four dimensions of leadership. The easy-to-use model contains nine competencies and integrates them across our talent practices, such as recruiting, development and PBM. LEAD provides all employees with a common language to have meaningful conversations about performance and development. 19 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY Our Commitment We strive to create a safe and open environment where everyone is supported to contribute to our success and have an impact — where the richness of ideas, backgrounds and perspectives are accepted, respected and valued. Each of us understands that we are accountable for playing an active role in building and sustaining an inclusive environment where everyone can contribute, grow and thrive. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Performance Diversity and inclusion (D&I) is a core responsibility of our In 2019, we formally launched our organizational director of talent management and development, who commitment to D&I and advanced a number of key reports to the CHRO. Our progress in D&I is overseen by diversity initiatives to reinforce our commitments a Diversity and Inclusion Council, comprised of a cross as an organization. section of business leaders from across the Company, CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge with the directive to examine how we promote and Our CEO, Sean Keohane, joined more than 800 CEOs in support diversity in all its forms. Policies and practices signing the pledge. By signing on to the commitment, are reviewed from both global and local perspectives Cabot Corporation is promising to take action to cultivate with the objective of ensuring that we build an inclusive a workplace where diverse perspectives and experiences environment where employees with diverse backgrounds are welcomed and respected and where employees feel and experiences feel valued and welcome to share new encouraged to speak up and take part in constructive ideas, challenge the status quo, and collaborate broadly conversations around issues of D&I. within and across their teams. Unconscious bias training We firmly believe that fostering diverse perspectives Throughout the organization, we introduced various forms and experiences not only builds a community of of unconscious bias training to raise awareness and help employees who feel included and valued, but also colleagues learn how to identify unconscious bias and enhances our ability to be innovative. Our business mitigate their own unconscious bias. success depends on our ability to create an environment where we all understand and acknowledge the importance D&I integrated into Cabot's talent management agenda of our differences. This supports our efforts in recruiting We integrated D&I into our overall talent management and retaining top talent and establishing a welcoming approach through the development of a shared vision and environment for our employees. road map to further embed D&I into our talent practices. Such efforts included: GRI: 103-2, 103-3 w a dding D&I-related questions to our employee engagement survey to hear directly from our employees regarding our efforts to foster diversity and inclusion w t racking diversity in our talent review processes to support succession and development w implementing pay equity analysis as a regular practice w e stablishing our first Employee Resource Group for Women and Allies w increasing representation of women in senior leadership positions, including on our executive team and Board of Directors GRI: 405-1 20 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our Commitment Throughout our history, we have maintained a strong sense of community and have strived to be a good corporate citizen. We understand the value of partnering with the communities in which we operate, and we recognize that thriving and resilient communities are essential for a sustainable future. Community engagement benefits our neighbors, resonates with employees on a personal level and allows us to operate with the trust and confidence of our neighbors. We are fortunate to have a workforce comprised of many individuals who are willing and able to contribute to this important effort by offering their time and skills that have a positive impact on our communities. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach communities around the globe while fostering long-term There are two primary conduits for our community partnerships with organizations that support our shared engagement efforts. The first is giving at the corporate sustainability goals. To this end, the Foundation Board level by the Cabot Corporation Foundation, and the carefully evaluates how prospective grants may help second is through facility-led initiatives. advance our sustainability objectives. Our facilities are responsible for developing and fostering relationships in The Cabot Corporation Foundation was established in 1953 the local community, and they are committed to making to support qualified charitable, nonprofit organizations a meaningful difference in many ways. At some locations, in the United States. The charter was amended in 1992 to Cabot representatives are involved in local industry include grants to qualified charitable organizations outside associations. Active community engagement teams at of the United States in support of our intent to have many of our locations take the lead in evaluating the meaningful impacts across our global footprint. A budget needs of the community and identifying organizations for the Foundation’s donations is approved by Cabot’s the facility may partner with to deliver a lasting and Board of Directors on an annual basis. Decisions for how meaningful impact. Our community engagement activities these funds are distributed is the responsibility of the take the form of volunteer events, charitable giving and Foundation’s Board of Directors, which meets quarterly sponsorship of local causes. In the case of monetary to review grant proposals and evaluate the impact of contributions, funds are typically managed as part of this giving to ensure funds are used in ways that align facility budgets, with additional resources available with our overall values and address the needs of our through the Cabot Corporation Foundation. Nearly twocommunities. Our giving pillars are aligned with our core thirds of our facilities globally have dedicated community areas of sustainability focus — Caring for our People and outreach teams responsible for preparing local community Communities, Acting Responsibly for the Planet and engagement plans. Building a Better Future Together. The Foundation plays GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 | SASB: RT-CH-210a.1 a unique role in providing financial support to our Inspiring the In April 2019, our colleagues from the Mauá, Brazil, facility introduced an educational program to next generation address topics not traditionally taught in local schools. Named “Project Semear (Seed),” the program of sustainability aims to inspire youth in the community to address environmental and social issues, educate their peers and family members, and learn habits that will prepare them to be responsible adults. More than leaders in 30 employees volunteered with a specialist teacher to provide weekly lessons to 9and 10-year-olds Mauá, Brazil on citizenship and environmental best practices like proper garbage disposal and water and energy conservation. The program proved hugely successful with students enthusiastic to learn about how they could make positive impacts throughout the community and teach others to do the same. 21 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Performance Supporting veterans with their career transitions In 2019, Cabot donated more than $1.6 million to worthy causes around the world. This included Foundation As part of a new partnership sponsored by the Cabot disbursements of $823,000 and individual facility Foundation with American Corporate Partners, a nonprofit donations totaling $793,000. These fiscal contributions encouraging Americans to support transitioning service were over and above the numerous ways our employees members, 18 employees throughout the United States gave back to their communities through volunteerism volunteered as mentors for an assigned veteran. and personal giving. Through monthly engagements, our volunteers worked with these individuals to review resumes, prepare for interviews, network and explore professional development opportunities. In doing so, we were able to show our gratitude for service people and also help veterans prepare for fulfilling and successful careers in the next chapter of their lives. GRI: 413-1 22 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A new, state-of-the-art emission control system in Franklin, Louisiana, USA, designed to reduce SO2 emissions by 95%. ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET 25 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 26 ENERGY 27 EMISSIONS 28 WASTE & SPILLS 30 WATER 23 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental issues significantly affect us all on a global scale, and it is the responsibility of governments and corporations alike to help find solutions to these challenges. As such, we operate our facilities responsibly while delivering innovative solutions that help address the sustainability challenges of our customers, our communities and our world. We acknowledge that we have a responsibility not only to remain compliant with applicable environmental regulations in the locations where we operate, but also to lessen the impacts we have on the planet. We are proud of the improvements we have made in our environmental performance and the leadership we have demonstrated within ACTING RESPONSIBLY ACTING FORRESPONSIBLY THE PLANET our industry but realize this is an ongoing process. We must continue to work toward FOR THE PLANET innovative, cost-effective solutions to reduce our environmental impacts while remaining competitive within our industries. Of the 11 material topics serving as the foundation of our sustainability program, more than half are related to environmental performance. The management of these topics is guided by our Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) Policy, and our performance is measured against specific goals to reduce waste and emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 2025. We also continuously monitor our environmental compliance performance against internal year-over-year improvement targets. To accelerate our performance, we routinely evaluate our environmental management practices to uncover broader opportunities that translate to environmental benefits, better use of our shared resources and reduced operating costs. The Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability (SHE&S) Committee of Cabot’s Board of Directors has oversight of environmental issues at the highest governance level. Executive leadership for implementing environmental strategies and policies is provided by the senior vice president for SH&E, who oversees a team of professionals assisting our locations in improving overall environmental performance. We note that we sold our Specialty Fluids business during calendar year 2019, and have adjusted our baseline data and environmental performance data by removing the data associated with Specialty Fluids from the results presented here. GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 24 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Our Commitment Responsibility is one of our core values, and one way we demonstrate this is through our commitment to 100% compliance with local, regional and national environmental laws and regulations. Maintaining compliance demonstrates to our stakeholders that we are respectful of the law and the permits that have been established to preserve the natural environment we all share and ensures our ongoing license to operate. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Performance Compliance is managed through our Drive to Zero initiative, As part of our ongoing effort to eliminate ENCs, we realized focused on reducing environmental non-conformance a 27% reduction in the number of ENCs in 2019 compared (ENC) events, which we define as events resulting in a with 2018 and a 37% reduction compared with 2017. This reportable spill or release, a notice of violation, a public improved performance is attributed to investments in complaint or a regulatory permit deviation. Our internal environmental controls, increased focus on employee standards are developed to meet or exceed laws, awareness, the use of our management system to improve regulations and the requirements of voluntary programs tracking of our regulatory obligations and implementing such as Responsible Care. Our approach to compliance corrective actions from our audits. is designed to prevent environmental incidents by Comprehensive SH&E audits were conducted at nine emphasizing proactive measures such as training and locations in 2019. Each audit included an evaluation of job planning with employees, contractors and business facility procedures, practices and site conditions to partners and in the design and operation of our facilities. manage compliance with national, state/provincial and Environmental awareness training is provided to local SH&E regulations; internal company standards; manufacturing facility employees as part of their new and industry-recognized best practices. Corrective employee orientation, and periodic refresher training is actions were established for any gaps, and closure of provided to maintain a high level of awareness on the those actions was tracked to completion. part of all employees involved in our operations. In 2019, Cabot incurred one fine of $2,000 for failure to We seek to promote continuous improvement by completely secure a bolt on an outbound shipment undertaking thorough investigations of any incidents from one of our facilities. This event did not cause any that do occur to identify the root cause of the incident environmental harm, and we implemented a system to and implement appropriate corrective actions. To help verify all hazardous materials shipments are correct minimize the potential for a similar incident to be repeated, before leaving the facility. the results of these investigations are shared broadly throughout our global network of facilities. We manage GRI: 307-1 compliance through our comprehensive SH&E audit program. These audits are conducted regularly and ENVIRONMENTAL NON-CONFORMANCES provide another opportunity to share best practices and 2017 73 learnings across our network. In addition, we support the efforts of our facilities to secure and maintain external 2018 63 certification of their environmental management systems. 2019 46 These certifications provide an independent assessment that we are fully aware of our environmental aspects and impacts and that we have the systems in place to ensure compliance. GRI: 103-2, 103-3 25 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENERGY Our Commitment Our focus on energy is consistent with our corporate strategy to generate value through efficiency and optimization. We understand that improved energy efficiency delivers both direct and indirect emission reduction and economic benefits. Our manufacturing processes are heavily dependent on energy, and we are committed to continuously looking for ways to advance toward our goal of reducing our overall energy intensity by reducing our consumption and harnessing waste energy often lost in our processes. Our work focuses on new innovations in equipment, process technologies, and waste heat recovery and utilization as our primary levers to help us achieve efficiency improvements while also considering alternative energy sources to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. In our expanded slate of 2025 sustainability goals, we added an additional energy goal to measure our performance of capturing and converting waste energy for export in relation to our import of energy. Our new goal is to capture and export 200% of the energy we import through converting what is now wasted energy into useful byproducts, which reduces the reliance on fossil fuels and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Performance Because energy is such a crucial part of our manufacturing We continued to make progress on our energy intensity processes, energy use is managed at several levels reduction goal in 2019 through the completion of the throughout the organization. Leaders from our business energy recovery system at our carbon black plant in segments, corporate SH&E, global engineering and our Franklin, Louisiana, USA, and increased waste heat research teams collaborate to evaluate new energyrecovery at our carbon black plant in Tianjin, China. These saving process technologies, implement capital programs actions have contributed to a 7.5% reduction in our overall to improve energy efficiency, and develop effective means energy use while lowering our energy intensity by over 2% to capture and utilize waste heat and energy. Management and reaching 65.8% of our 2025 goal. Further, we made practices designed to optimize operations and implement progress on our new energy goal to export twice as much efficiency measures are undertaken at the facility level. energy as we import, exclusive of raw materials. In 2019, Data on energy use and sources is collected and analyzed we increased our energy exported by 9.9%, to 9.48 million through our internally developed corporate energy gigajoules (MMGJ) while reducing the amount of energy we metric, which evaluates the net energy efficiency of imported by 3%, to 7.22 MMGJ. This has increased the amount each facility and is used to determine energy trends of energy we exported relative to the amount of energy we and improvement opportunities. imported by nearly 13%, to 131% compared with 2018. GRI: 103-2, 103-3 GRI: 302-1, 302-3 | SASB: RT-CH-130a.1 ENERGY 2017 2018 2019 ENERGY SOURCES Energy Use 130.84 136.09 125.94 0.0% Liquid Fuels MMGJ 0.04 MMGJ 0.1% Steam MMGJ 0.14 Energy Intensity* 63.03 62.22 60.87 GJ / MT of Production 1.9% Purchased Electricity MMGJ 2.53 3.3% Natural Gas MMGJ 4.50 *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 66% 94.7% Raw Materials MMGJ 128.2 Total MMGJ 135.42 26 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70+5+25T Byproduct Gas State-of-the-art energy center uses Energy MMGJ waste heat to produce power 2.41 ENERGY Steam MMGJ In August 2019, Cabot and our partner CLECO celebrated Electricity MMGJ EXPORTED 6.63 the startup of a new waste heat recovery boiler and 0.44 9.48 MMGJ steam turbine generator in Franklin, Louisiana, USA. The 50 megawatt-capacity St. Mary’s Energy Center makes beneficial use of Cabot’s waste heat to produce power without creating any additional emissions. Using this technology to substitute waste heat for fossil fuel for electricity generation, the people of Louisiana will see a reduction of 110 tons per year of NOx and 180 tons per year of SO2 emissions, along with a reduction of 167,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions. EMISSIONS Our Commitment We understand the broad impacts associated with greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and air pollutants, including implications for climate, concerns regarding the impact on public health and threats to ecosystems that drive the need to reduce our emissions. Emission reductions can also signal improved operational efficiency at our manufacturing facilities, and we see our focus on emission reductions as a potential competitive advantage. We monitor our process emissions closely and work to minimize our respective impacts in support of maintaining compliance with our regulatory obligations and reducing our global environmental footprint. We also look to partner with our customers and others who share our goal of reducing emissions impacts across the value chain by providing products that can help lower their emissions and significantly lower the impact of their products throughout the product life cycle. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Performance The overall management strategy for our emission By the end of 2019, we had realized 77% of our 2025 GHG reduction program is led by our business segments, reduction target. This was achieved through efforts to regions and individual facilities. We continue to look to improve our process yields through technology, product develop and implement cost-effective technologies that and process equipment selection, and feedstock selection. help meet both our emission reduction and our operational We also utilized more efficient production units to produce efficiency goals. We engage closely with governments almost 3% less emissions. Looking forward, we have in the areas where we operate, as they aim to reduce additional process technology improvements under industrial and commercial sources of emissions in their development for deployment throughout our carbon communities. Often, this engagement occurs through black facilities that will continue to reduce our overall our active participation and leadership in various GHG intensity. At the same time, we are also seeing industry groups. industry-wide changes in the availability and selection GRI: 103-2, 103-3 | SASB: RT-CH-110a.2, RT-CH-120a.1 of raw materials that reduce our overall efficiency, which 27 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT will create additional challenges for us over the long feedstock sulfur content as well as the slate of products term. As reported in 2018, we exceeded our NOx reduction we produced. We continue to make progress on upgrading goal ahead of schedule. As part of our expanded 2025 the SO2 control system at our Xingtai, China, facility, are Sustainability Goals, we have increased the NOx emissions finalizing the implementation of our SO2 control system at intensity reduction to 50% from the 2012 baseline. We our facility in Franklin, Louisiana, USA, and have started the are executing projects in 2020 that will reduce our NOx early engineering for the SO2 control system at our facility emissions at our facility in Xingtai, China, and are in the in Ville Platte, Louisiana, USA. These systems are expected final stages of construction of our emissions control to be operational in 2021 and 2022, respectively. system at our Franklin, Louisiana, USA, facility, which is In 2019, we also entered into our first contract to purchase expected to go online in 2021. Additional changes in renewable electricity from wind power plants for two of feedstock mix have also helped us continue to reduce our facilities in the United Kingdom. The contract began our NOx emissions throughout the network. in the latter part of 2019 and accounted for over 3,000 Our absolute SO2 emissions were 7% lower than in megawatt hours of renewable electricity. previous years, and 2% lower based on emissions intensity. GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-7 | SASB: RT-CH-110a.1, RT-CH-120a.1, This is the result of variations based on fluctuations in our RT-CH-110a.2 GHG EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 SO2 EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 Absolute Emissions Absolute Emissions 43.20 43.34 40.23 KMT Scope 1 MM MT CO2e 4.57 4.77 4.37 Emission Intensity* 20.81 19.81 19.45 Scope 2 MM MT CO2e 0.33 0.32 0.31 MT / KMT Production Emission Intensity* *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 33% Scope 1 MT CO2e / MT Production 2.20 2.18 2.11 Scope 2 MT CO2e / MT Production 0.16 0.15 0.15 NOX EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 77% Absolute Emissions 13.22 9.79 9.06 KMT Emission Intensity* 6.37 4.48 4.38 MT / KMT Production *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 89% WASTE & SPILLS Our Commitment We acknowledge the potential impact that solid waste disposal or spills of hazardous materials could have on the environment in our local communities. Therefore, we take a targeted approach to minimize waste through a hierarchy of management practices, and we work toward zero spills at our facilities. We also believe that finding alternative uses for waste materials and byproducts presents opportunities to further contribute to a circular economy. As part of our expanded 2025 Sustainability Goals, we modified our waste goal to reduce waste disposed that is not beneficially used by 20% and to ultimately eliminate manufacturing waste disposal without beneficial use. GRI: 103-1 28 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Management Approach Our Performance Waste is measured by tracking progress against our Our goal for reducing the intensity of disposed waste was intensity target and seeking opportunities to reduce waste achieved in 2016, but in 2019 we continued to find ways to generated during manufacturing. Expectations for the further reduce waste generation and beneficially use the management of waste and the handling of chemicals waste we do generate. Through these efforts, we reduced are governed by internal standards applicable to all our our waste generation intensity by 2.1% over 2018 and our manufacturing facilities. We implement programs to waste disposal intensity by 2.6%. Further, the amount of identify reuse opportunities for off-quality products and waste generated was reduced by 7.5% over 2018. In 2019, other waste streams, and to improve facility resource we continued our trend toward beneficially reusing the efficiency to reduce waste generation. Compliance with waste we did generate by another 2.8% compared with these expectations is regularly evaluated through our 2018. The majority of the improvement was related to comprehensive SH&E audit program. We aim to avoid all finding beneficial uses for the waste generated from air spills through careful management and design of the pollution control systems at specific facilities. processes at our facilities, and we conduct training on While we have continued to make excellent progress on spill management and emergency response so that we our waste disposal goal, we anticipate increased waste are prepared in the event of an incident. generation from the air pollution controls being installed GRI: 103-2, 103-3 in our Franklin and Ville Platte, Louisiana, USA, facilities. Our plan is to identify beneficial uses for these materials and WASTE GENERATION 2017 2018 2019 continue to drive manufacturing waste disposal without beneficial use to zero. Absolute Volume Our waste generation is dominated by a single waste Nonhazardous KMT 101.62 49.28 44.10 stream at one facility, accounting for over 94% of our Hazardous KMT 398.24 405.82 377.17 disposed waste, and, as we have previously stated, this stream is expected to change substantially to near zero Waste Intensity* within the next three to five years. Considering all other Nonhazardous 48.96 22.53 21.32 waste streams, we beneficially reused or recycled 54% of MT / KMT Production the waste we generated in 2019, an increase of nearly 13%. Hazardous 191.85 185.55 182.30 MT / KMT Production In 2019, we did not experience any significant spill or release events, which are classified as a spill or release that triggers emergency reporting to a regulatory agency BENEFICIALLY REUSED 2017 2018 2019 that was also a Tier 1 or Tier 2 process safety event. MATERIALS GRI: 306-2, 306-3 | SASB: RT-CH-150a.1 Waste Beneficially Used 85.10 26.59 27.34 KMT WASTE DISPOSAL NONWaste Beneficially Used — Intensity MT / KMT Production 41.00 12.16 13.22 METHODS HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS Reused or Recycled KMT 19.53 4.36 WASTE DISPOSAL 2017 2018 2019 Incinerated WITH Energy 2.96 0.50 Recovery KMT Total Waste Disposed 414.77 428.51 393.93 KMT Incinerated WITHOUT 0.35 1.17 Energy Recovery KMT Total Waste Disposed — 199.68 195.93 190.40 Intensity MT / KMT Production Deep Well Injection KMT 0.00 370.54 Landfilled KMT 20.93 0.53 Other KMT 0.33 0.09 29 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WATER Our Commitment Water is vital to human life and healthy ecosystems across the globe. It is also a natural resource we depend on in our manufacturing processes, and we must pay close attention to ensuring responsible water consumption and management. Therefore, we seek to conserve water across our operations and to discharge wastewater that is properly treated to avoid degradation to the surrounding environment. We also look to develop applications for our products that help conserve and protect water resources, including the use of our masterbatch material in durable water piping and our activated carbon products in water purification systems. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Performance Responsibility for water resource management In 2019, we asked a team of Cabot leaders to assess our predominantly resides at the facility level. Both intake water reduction efforts and to help develop a long-term and discharge of water are typically governed by state strategy for water use reduction. The team identified and local water permits, and we strive for full compliance a number of shortand long-term recommendations, with our obligations under these permits. We also look including standardizing our method of measuring water for opportunities to increase water efficiency and recycle use, developing water use reduction plans that include wastewater where feasible. targets based on site-specific water balances, and We evaluate our water management by reviewing data on developing contingency plans for high or extremely high water withdrawal intensity and water discharge intensity baseline water scarcity areas. In 2019, we saw a 4.4% per unit of production. This allows us to evaluate our increase in our water use intensity, while realizing a 1% water usage for each of our business units, as our decrease in the total amount of water supplied to our numerous manufacturing processes vary in their water facilities. The largest increase was associated with the full requirements. We have been monitoring annual water operation of our aerogel facility in Frankfurt, Germany, while use and discharges at our manufacturing facilities since our absolute water supply decrease was driven mainly by 2009 to better understand where our water is sourced; a drop in the amount of water supplied to our carbon black what our withdrawal rates are; and the volume, quality facilities. We also saw a 12% drop in our total water use, as and destination of water discharged from our facilities. measured by the difference between water supplied and Each year, as part of our comprehensive Enterprise water discharged from our manufacturing facilities, with Risk Management program, we conduct a water risk the largest declines attributable to the carbon black and evaluation of our manufacturing locations in order to activated carbon facilities. identify which of them may be impacted by future GRI: 303-1, 303-3, 306-1 | SASB: RT-CH-140a.1 water scarcity issues. Our most recent evaluation has identified 12 facilities that are in areas classified by the WATER USE & DISCHARGE 2017 2018 2019 World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Tool as being extremely high or high for baseline water stress. Absolute Volume GRI: 103-2, 103-3 | SASB: RT-CH-140a.3 Water Supply MM m3 52.91 60.36 59.53 Water Discharge MM m3 39.51 45.65 46.56 Water Intensity Water Supply m3 / MT 25.49 27.60 28.77 Water Discharge m3 / MT 19.03 20.87 22.50 30 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Groundwater / 71+1+424T 94+5+1T Public or Private Other MM m3 Purchased MM m3 Sewer MM m3 0.61 13.86 2.36 Surface MM m3 Surface MM m3 Ground MM m 3 WATER 42.53 WATER 43.58 2.33 SOURCES DISCHARGE DESTINATION Gray MM m3 0.81 31 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER 33 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED 35 PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 36 SUPPLIERS' SUSTAINABILITY 32 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We recognize the value and importance of incorporating sustainability not only into our direct operations and research efforts but throughout our value chain. This perspective helps us identify how we can best leverage our influence and create the greatest value to improve efficiency and implement responsible practices. We actively engage with our customers to collaborate on developing products that impart sustainability benefits such as increased durability and energy efficiency. In addition, we support and collaborate with our suppliers to help them in their pursuit of continuous improvement in sustainability performance. Improving the overall impact of our value chain is dependent on our close BUILDING A BETTER BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER collaboration with our customers and suppliers. Together, we pursue innovative solutions FUTURE TOGETHER to improve our collective sustainability performance and address the key sustainability challenges of today’s world. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED Our Commitment Strong financial performance is key to the sustainable growth of our business and our future success. Our stakeholders around the world expect us to deliver on our financial commitments by generating and distributing economic value. To that end, we are focused on growing our earnings by 7% to 10% over time while also returning 50% of our discretionary free cash flow to shareholders. We believe this approach in combination with investing for growth in our businesses will allow us to maintain our reputation as a leader in our markets and be well positioned to respond to the evolving needs of our customers. Through our global operations, we create value for a wide variety of stakeholders, including our local communities, shareholders, investors, suppliers, contractors and employees. Our compensation programs are designed to provide a competitive package that rewards both the individual’s and Cabot’s performance and that reflects job complexity, strategic value of the individual’s position, experience and location. Further, our capital investments of nearly $250 million across our global facilities provide value to local economies through the use of local suppliers and contractors to help execute these projects. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach Our Advancing the Core strategy is designed to extend With the support of our Executive Committee, the Board our leadership in performance materials. We do this of Directors oversees financial performance and strategy, by investing for growth in our core businesses, driving capital structure and market exposure as well as Cabot’s application innovation with our customers, and generating overall risk profile. Our comprehensive Enterprise Risk strong cash flows through efficiency and optimization. The Management (ERM) program is led by our chief financial goal of this strategy is to deliver sustained and attractive officer and reviewed by the Executive Committee before total shareholder return, built on earnings growth and a it is presented to the Board of Directors. As part of this balanced capital allocation framework. This strategy helps process, sustainability-related issues — such as impacts ensure that we invest sufficiently in our core businesses to from climate change on our business operations and our capture opportunities and drive long-term earnings growth markets — are evaluated. Opportunities related to how while also providing our shareholders with a meaningful we can respond to markets seeking more sustainable cash return. solutions are also a key factor in our strategic planning. 33 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our investment decisions and growth strategy are guided We have made significant progress toward our stated goal by an emphasis on sustainable business practices and of expanding global carbon black manufacturing capacity. full compliance with laws, regulations and corporate In 2019, we broke ground on a capacity expansion project standards, including our Code of Business Ethics, and in our manufacturing facility in Cilegon, Indonesia. In often go beyond the minimum expectations, requirements addition, we began the upgrade of our new carbon black and standards. site in Pizhou, China, to produce specialty carbons. To ensure the reliability of our financial and strategic Our business success enables us to further our planning, we regularly monitor and evaluate both our contributions to society and the communities where shortand long-term needs and objectives. Specifically, we we operate by generating jobs, providing fair wages, conduct a comprehensive internal review of our financial adopting the latest technology and materials to reduce performance quarterly. We also review our financial our environmental impact, and participating in charitable performance with our Board of Directors on a bimonthly giving and community events. basis. On an annual basis, we develop and review longGRI: 201-1 range plans, establish performance targets, and review business and function budgets. ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE ($)2 Our financial performance is evaluated closely by our $ per share/fiscal year investors and the broader investment community, and our $4.50 annual financial statements are audited each year by an independent registered public accounting firm. $4.00 GRI: 103-2, 103-3, 201-2 $3.50 $3.00 Our Performance $2.50 Our team was able to navigate a challenging business and 30 $2.00 economic environment and delivered solid performance in 51% fiscal year 2019. We delivered adjusted earnings per share $1.50 (EPS)1 of $3.91 and strong cash generation performance, $1.00 with operating cash flow1 of $361 million and free cash $.50 flow1 of $137 million. We continued to deliver on our commitment to return cash to our shareholders, returning $0 more than 50% of discretionary free cash flow through 20153 20163 20173 2018 2019 dividends and share repurchases. Our focus on cash generation allowed us to remain committed to our capital allocation framework, which seeks to balance investments for growth in our core businesses with strong cash return to our shareholders. We are committed to long-term value creation and 1 continue to execute our Advancing the Core strategy. We Non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure. Refer to non-GAAP reconciliations on page 10 of our advanced a number of key strategic investments including 2019 Annual Report. the divestiture of the Specialty Fluids business. This move 2 Non-GAAP financial measure, excludes financial results of divested enabled us to not only focus our portfolio, but also to utilize businesses and certain items. Refer to non-GAAP reconciliations the proceeds to repurchase shares above our stated on page 10 of Cabot Corporation’s 2019 Annual Report for a capital allocation framework and invest in advantaged reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. opportunities to grow our core businesses. 3 In fiscal 2018, the Company elected to change its inventory We continued to make several long-term strategic valuation method of accounting for its U.S. carbon black inventories investments to extend our leadership positions and to from the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method to the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. The Company applied this change retrospectively, drive sustained growth. We commenced operations at and fiscal 2017 and 2016 balances have been updated accordingly. our new fumed silica plant in Wuhai, China, employing Fiscal 2015 has not been updated to reflect this change and may approximately 60 new employees. not be comparable to the other years presented. 34 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY Our Commitment Our vision of delivering performance that makes a difference is exemplified by our products that provide health, safety, environmental and other sustainability benefits for our customers and their customers. We are committed to continuing to develop innovative products that improve the performance of our customers’ products by imparting properties that extend product life spans, increase fuel efficiency and optimize resource conservation. We look to grow our involvement in the circular economy by developing opportunities to use waste or byproducts as raw materials. As responsible manufacturers, we understand our obligation to share comprehensive information on the health, safety and environmental aspects of our products. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach regulatory issues, promote collaboration on expansion Oversight of product innovation and development of health and safety information, and help ensure the is provided by our chief technology officer in close long-term sustainability of our markets. collaboration with our customer-focused business teams. GRI: 103-2, 103-3, 416-1 | SASB: RT-CH-410b.2 We also regularly partner with customers to support their goals of developing sustainable products and solutions. Our Performance Our research and development teams use a stage-gate process to assess the risks associated with the materials Innovation is a critical dimension of our sustainability we use and produce, with regard to the health, safety and agenda, and it is essential to our ability to win in the environmental impacts from our own operations as well as marketplace and grow. This is why we are committed the activities of our suppliers and customers. Through this to further embedding sustainability into our product lens, we can make informed decisions about the design development engagements with customers. and formulation of our products. Improving circular economy of plastics Our efforts to maintain compliance with global product As plastics manufacturers seek more sustainable requirements are led by regulatory experts and solutions to comply with global environmental and labeling toxicologists within our Product Support and Toxicology standards, we launched a new black masterbatch series department. Our corporate hazard communication program that utilizes postindustrial carbon black and recycled ensures an ongoing review of our product properties carbons. These new formulations are specifically designed as well as compliance with global requirements. We are to help the industry lower its carbon footprint and increase committed to developing transparent product labeling the amount of recycled and secondary content in end and sharing comprehensive supporting literature to products. Furthering our sustainability objectives in this ensure those who manufacture, transport, store or use area, we became a signatory of the Ellen MacArthur our products are prepared to handle the materials safely. Foundation’s New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. Training is provided for our employees, customers and We also pledged to take actions to reduce plastic waste distributors to relay the health and safety aspects of our at our European masterbatch facilities as part of the products as well as the intended uses, ensuring that our Operation Clean Sweep® program. materials are handled and used properly. Expanding advanced carbons portfolio This commitment to product sustainability extends to our After acquiring new carbon nanostructure (CNS) engagement with peer companies in our industries. Cabot technology capabilities, we have been actively working has long been a participant and leader in the International with customers serving the automotive industry to Carbon Black Association and the Association of Synthetic advance applications of CNS-containing composites Amorphous Silica Producers as well as other industry for a wide range of conductive applications, including associations around the world. These engagements electrostatic discharge and electromagnetic interference provide opportunities to further the understanding of (EMI) shielding. This work led to the creation of a new 35 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT family of unique materials that consists of a network of suppliers and battery original equipment manufacturers crosslinked carbon nanotubes manufactured using a to help understand and solve next-generation LIB proprietary process. ATHLOS™ CNS is an innovative new performance issues. solution that will allow us to help customers better respond to the premium performance demands of next-generation Assuring safety for food manufacturers plastic applications by enabling an optimal balance Our activated carbon plant in Klazienaveen, the of EMI shielding, conductivity, mechanical strength Netherlands, received FSSC 22000 Food Safety System and processability. The addition of ATHLOS CNS to EMI Certification, the highest level of food safety assurance. shielding solutions enables significant lightweighting and This is the first Cabot activated carbon site to receive this miniaturization advantages by replacing or reducing the certification and covers our NORIT® E 153 activated carbon loading of traditional metal-based alternatives. colorant portfolio as well as foodstuff purification products such as NORIT® SA4 PAH, NORIT® SA ULTRA PAH and NORIT® Advancing innovation in energy materials SA5 PAH HF carbons, all for edible oils purification. This As we focus on growth in attractive markets, we continue certification demonstrates our commitment to continuous to look for investment opportunities that enhance our improvement in the food industry. portfolio with new, differentiated products and create maximum value in the chain through formulations. Our Providing ongoing regulatory and safety Energy Materials business recently made a $2 million support to our customers investment in Group 14, a startup company with promising Our team of product regulatory specialists continued technology for improving lithium-ion battery (LIB) to provide our customers with the information and performance. Group 14 manufactures novel LIB materials compliance support needed to ensure our products that boost battery performance and are designed for could be used in the wide variety of applications and low cost and “drop in” compatibility with existing LIB geographies that Cabot serves. Activities included production. With the investment, Group 14 will scale up the preregistration for chemical control regulations in Korea manufacturing of a next-generation anode material and and Eurasia, partnering with our industry peers to meet advance it into commercial production. As a result of the EU REACH nanomaterial requirements, and supporting investment, we are working with other industry leaders on ongoing toxicology research on carbon black. material development and have the unique opportunity to closely collaborate with industry-leading battery material SUPPLIERS’ SUSTAINABILITY Our Commitment We are committed to conducting business with the highest ethical standards, and we expect the same of our suppliers. At the same time, we see opportunities to generate shared value through sustainability. As we advance on our sustainability journey, we believe partnering with our suppliers will play an important role in our ability to generate significant positive impacts beyond our own operations. GRI: 103-1 Our Management Approach being managed by our global Source to Pay organization, Our suppliers provide a wide range of goods and services, part of our newly formed Global Business Services, including raw materials, chemical additives, process which was introduced in October 2019, and our business equipment, packaging materials, logistics services, feedstock sourcing teams. The formation of Global maintenance, repair and operations (MRO), engineering Business Services, including Source to Pay, has triggered and facility and professional services. Our suppliers are a review of how we select and evaluate suppliers. As part 36 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of this renewed structure for purchasing activities, the suppliers. Through this audit program, our target was to method by which suppliers are selected and evaluated has evaluate at least half of our critical suppliers. While this also been under review. We continue to share our Supplier was a beneficial first step in our approach to addressing Code of Conduct with all our suppliers, outlining our sustainability in our supply chain, we recognized an expectations for conducting business ethically and in an opportunity to ensure our efforts will be optimal in environmentally and socially responsible manner, and we efficiency and efficacy as part of the new Global Business require our key suppliers to acknowledge the expectations Services function. Our goal is to engage our suppliers for responsible and ethical practices described in this through collaborative solutions that benefit our shared document. sustainability performance without causing an undue GRI: 102-9, 103-2, 103-3 burden on our partners. Collaborating with suppliers in China to cut Our Performance plastic waste Our team in China has been developing a leasing program Throughout the majority of 2019, advancing sustainability for our plastic pallets. Instead of selecting standard singlein our supply chain was focused on integrating use pallets for key customers in China, we coordinated sustainability criteria as part of our supplier qualification with our partners both upstream and downstream in our process and audits. The audit criteria included elements logistics supply chain to identify a better solution. The that are fundamental to general risks associated with supply alternative allows for pallets to be sent back to the nearest chain management as well as to our core sustainability network point for redistribution to Cabot and our partners, interests such as health, safety, environmental protection, enabling a savings of approximately 85 metric tons of human rights, ethics, business continuity and quality. plastic per year. Audits were prioritized based on supplier criticality to our business and exposure to risks, taking the following Deploying technology to reduce waste into account: In our effort to avoid unnecessary disposal of bags used w C ategory of goods and services provided, as it relates to package our product, our team in Brazil has been to risks and environmental impact associated with the partnering with a supplier to develop a radio-frequency type of labor performed, directly or indirectly identification (RFID) tag that could help track the movement of these bags. This would allow us to improve wR  isks related to country-level (including regional) the percentage of bags returned for reuse and coordinate regulations applied to supplier activities performed with customers accordingly. Currently, approximately 65% or products provided of bags are returned to Cabot from our customers, and wR  eview of historical performance and concerns we anticipate this rate will increase to about 80% with the raised by internal key users and purchasing category use of RFID tags. This system will also help us monitor the managers, whose assessment includes deep industry condition of bags being reused and enhance our ability and market knowledge to track packages throughout their distribution. All the suppliers prioritized for audits in 2019 were GRI: 308-2, 414-2 evaluated on sustainability criteria. Over the course of the year, we audited 12% of the total number of our critical SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS BY REGION Supplier Audits that Included 30 51+27+22T 100% Sustainability Criteria 51% Critical Suppliers Audited on 12% Sustainability Criteria 16 13 27% 22% AMERICAS APAC EMEA 37 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 102-1 Name of the organization Cabot Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and/or services p. 9 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 Seaport Lane, Suite 1300, Boston, MA 02210 USA 102-4 Location of operations pp. 9-10 102-5 Ownership and legal form Cabot Corporation is a publicly traded corporation (NYSE: CBT). 102-6 Markets served p. 9 102-7 Scale of the organization Refer to p. 9 for the number of employees and operations. Net revenue can be found on Cabot’s Annual Report, p. 8. Total capitalization can be found in Cabot’s Form 10-K filed November 22, 2019. Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers pp. 17-18 We regularly engage a relatively small percentage of non-employee contractors, typically hired for specific project-based work or discrete periods of time. 102-9 Supply chain pp. 36-37 102-10 Significant changes to the organization p. 9 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Throughout our operations and our product development, we are guided by the precautionary principle and carefully take into account effects on the environment, health and safety. 102-12 External initiatives pp. 4-5, 8-9, 12 In addition to the UNGC, Cabot participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we comply with the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® program as part of our commitment to safety, health and environment (SH&E). We have also signed on to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation's New Plastics Economy Global Commitment and CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge. 102-13 Memberships of associations Cabot is an active member of the following national and international industry/advocacy groups and associations: u Advanced Porous Materials Association (AdvaPor) u American Chemistry Council (ACC) u Association of Synthetic Amorphous Silica Producers (ASASP) u China Petroleum & Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) u Corporate Environmental Enforcement Council (CEEC) u Environmental Law Institute (ELI) u essenscia (Belgium) u European Masterbatchers and Compounders (EuMBC) u International Carbon Black Association (ICBA) u Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity & Innovation (MAPI) u Nanotechnology Industry Association (NIA) u National Safety Council (NSC) u Society of Toxicology (SOT) u Synthetic Amorphous Silica and Silicate Industry Association (SASSI) u United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 38 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp. 4-5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and p. 10 norms of behavior 102-18 Governance structure The Board of Directors has five standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Executive, Governance and Nominating, and Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability. For additional details on the Board's composition, refer to the Proxy Statement. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Across all Cabot operations, 41% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The terms of collective bargaining agreements are fully aligned with Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics and Human Rights Policy. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 11 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Refer to Cabot’s Form 10-K November 22, 2019, Part I, Item 1, Business, financial statements for a description of our operations and entities in which Cabot has ownership interest, and Cabot’s Form 10-K Exhibit 21 for a list of Cabot's subsidiaries. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 6 102-47 List of material topics pp. 6-7 102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of historical financial data from fiscal year 2019; however, due to a revised approach to classifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events, historical data was updated accordingly (refer to p. 16). Additionally, historical environmental data has been restated from what was disclosed in previous Sustainability Reports to exclude impacts from our Specialty Fluids business, which was divested in 2019. 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 6 102-50 Reporting period p. 6 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 6 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 6 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Inquiries or comments concerning the content of this report may be directed to the report sustainability@cabotcorp.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance p. 6 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index This complete GRI Content Index meets the intent and format required by the GRI Standards. 102-56 External assurance p. 6 39 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — ­ BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 9, 33 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 33-34 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 34 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 201-1 Direct economic value generated p. 34 and distributed For additional information, refer to Cabot’s Form 10-K. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and pp. 33-34 opportunities for the organization’s activities For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2019 Carbon Disclosure Project filing due to climate change (cdp.net). Product Sustainability GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 35 and its boundaries Product health, safety and environmental impacts occur primarily downstream from Cabot's operations through the activities of our customers and in some cases through end use by consumers. 103-2 The management approach p. 35 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 35 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts p. 35 of product and service categories 100% of significant product categories are assessed for health and safety impacts using the best available information. 40 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER continued Suppliers' Sustainability GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 36 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 36-37 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 36-37 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply p. 37 chain and actions taken In 2019, our supplier sustainability efforts were focused on integrating sustainability criteria as part of our supplier qualification process and audits. The audit criteria included elements that are fundamental to general risks associated with supply chain management as well as to our core sustainability interests such as health, safety, environmental protection, human rights, ethics, business continuity and quality. Audits were prioritized based on supplier criticality to our business and exposure to risks. Any issues identified were addressed with the specific suppliers. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain p. 37 and actions taken In 2019, our supplier sustainability efforts were focused on integrating sustainability criteria as part of our supplier qualification process and audits. The audit criteria included elements that are fundamental to general risks associated with supply chain management as well as to our core sustainability interests such as health, safety, environmental protection, human rights, ethics, business continuity and quality. Audits were prioritized based on supplier criticality to our business and exposure to risks. Any issues identified were addressed with the specific suppliers. MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 24-25 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 24-25 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 24-25 41 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET continued Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental p. 25 laws and regulations Adhering to local environmental laws and regulations is the responsibility of facility general managers as well as site environmental managers located at each facility. In support of compliance efforts, resources include a robust database to track near-miss and ENC events and corrective actions, as well as over $26.4 million in environmental capital spending in FY 2019, which was dedicated to improving facilities’ environmental performance. Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 26 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 26 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 26 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization pp. 26-27 For more information about our energy and fuel sources, refer to our response to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire (cdp.net). 302-3 Energy intensity p. 26 Energy consumption includes all forms of energy consumed by facilities under Cabot’s operational control and excludes energy sold to third parties. Air Pollutants / GHG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 27 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 27 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 27 42 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET continued Air Pollutants / GHG GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 28 Our greenhouse gas calculations were completed in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Revised Edition) and drawing guidance from the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories – 2006 and The Climate Registry: General Reporting Protocol. Emissions were calculated using the operational control approach and IPCC Second Assessment Report 100-year global warming potentials, and included emissions of CO2, CH4 and N2O. We maintain databases that track monthly usage volumes of feedstock materials and fossil fuels, as well as production volume. Our 2017 and 2018 GHG emissions were verified in alignment with the principles of ISO-14064-3:2006I Specifications with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions under a Limited Level of Assurance by ERM. The next verification is scheduled to be completed in 2021 for our 2019 and 2020 GHG data. 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 28 See Disclosure 305-1 in the GRI Content Index for a description of GHG monitoring methods. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 28 GHG intensity is calculated as MT CO2e emissions/MT of product. The intensity of our GHG emissions is calculated for all Scope 1 and 2 emissions produced by facilities under Cabot’s operational control, as reported under Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) p. 28 and other significant air emissions Data reported has been calculated using actual test measurements based on countryspecific or U.S. EPA methods, Cabot engineering estimates, or similar emission factors. Waste & Spills GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 28 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach p. 29 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 29 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 29 Cabot manages its waste streams in accordance with a hierarchy of waste management with elimination of the stream as the top priority and disposal without any beneficial use as the bottom priority. The majority of nonhazardous waste is recycled or reused, and the majority of hazardous waste is generated at one location and disposed of via on-site deep well injection. While this waste stream will continue to be tracked, changes are expected that will significantly reduce or eliminate the volume of hazardous waste disposed of by deep well injection over the next two years. As such, this stream has been excluded from our overall reduction goal. 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 29 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET continued Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 30 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach p. 30 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 30 GRI 303: Water 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 303-1 Water withdrawal by source pp. 30-31 303-3 Water recycled and reused p. 30 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination pp. 30-31 Cabot's wastewater discharge is treated as needed and discharged generally in compliance with its permitted limits. Where exceedances occur, corrective actions are implemented. No organization uses our wastewater discharges for any purpose. MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Occupational Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 14-15 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 15 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 15 44 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES continued Occupational Health & Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint p. 15 management — worker health and The majority of our manufacturing locations, regional offices and service centers have joint safety committees health and safety committees operating at the site level and reporting to the corporate SH&E department. These committees represent all workers and contractors. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury (IR), p. 16 occupational diseases (ODR), lost days Methods for calculating each metric are provided below: (LDR), absenteeism (AR), and number of u Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR): Number of injuries (employees and contractors) work-related fatalities per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees) u Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR): Number of lost time injuries (employees and contractors) per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees) u Severity Rate (Lost Day Rate): Number of lost work days (employees and contractors) per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees): 9.86 u Process Safety Events (PSE): Defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety as a “release of material or energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire or explosion, or release of flammable, combustible or toxic chemicals.” Employment, Diversity & Training GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 17, 20 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach pp. 17-20 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 17, 19, 20 GRI 401: Employment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 18 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 19 Our comprehensive benefits programs are designed to be a competitive supplement to Social Security or other social welfare benefits provided by the countries where our operations are located. While our benefits vary by location, these typically include healthcare, life and accidental insurance; disability; retirement and pension plans; business travel accident insurance; medical travel insurance; vacation, holiday and leave entitlement; educational financial assistance; and access to retiree medical coverage. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills p. 19 and transition assistance programs Our training programs are managed at the corporate level and on a site-by-site basis, according to the unique mix of each employee's experience and skill set, career interests, and the core business objectives of the company. Career transitioning is handled with sensitivity and commonly includes outplacement services for future employment opportunities or retirement. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular p. 18 performance and career development reviews 45 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES continued Employment, Diversity & Training GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pp. 17, 20 Diversity of employees at the end of 2019: By Gender: u Male: 77% u Female: 23% By Age Group: u Under 20: <1% u 20-29: 10.7% u 30-39: 30.0% u 40-49: 26.8% u 50-59: 25.6% u 60+: 6.9% Diversity of the Board of Directors at the end of 2019: By Gender: u Male: 66% u Female: 33% By Age Group: u Under 30: 0% u 30-50: 0% u Over 50: 100% As we continue to introduce key performance indicators to track diversity, we have begun capturing minority demographics for our workforce in the United States. At the end of 2019, 25% of this population identified as a race or ethnicity other than white/Caucasian. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective During 2019, we were made aware of four alleged cases of discrimination. These and actions taken previous cases that were not yet resolved were reviewed and investigated, leading to the closure of five cases in 2019. Allegations of discrimination: u Total claims alleged: 4 u Total claims closed: 5 Corrective actions taken: No Action Policy Review Training Discipline Termination Substantiated 0 0 0 0 0 Unsubstantiated 5 0 0 0 0 Community Engagement GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic p. 21 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 21 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 21 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 413-1 Operations with local community pp. 21-22 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 46 GRI CONTENT INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SASB CHEMICALS INDEX INDUSTRY STANDARD VERSION 2018-10 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage p. 28 covered under emissions-limiting regulations 40.7% of our Scope 1 emissions are covered under cap and trade or carbon tax schemes. RT-CH-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term pp. 7, 27-28. See p. 43, GRI 305-1 for our methodology. strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, Cabot's GHG Reduction strategy was developed in 2010 as a voluntary program. emissions reduction targets, and analysis of performance against those targets Air Quality Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) pp. 27-28 NOX (excluding N2O), (2) SOX, (3) volatile organic Emissions data are either directly measured or determined with engineering compounds (VOCs) and (4) hazardous air calculations. At the present time, we do not track VOCs or HAPs globally, but all pollutants (HAPs) of our facilities control these emissions through combustion control equipment. Energy Management Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage pp. 26-27 grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable, 1. Non-raw material energy consumed: 7.220 MMGJ; 2. Percentage of grid electricity (4) total self-generated energy of non-raw material energy: 34.9%; 3. Percentage of energy from renewable: 0.15%; 4. Total self-generated energy exported: 9.48 MMGJ (0.44 MMGJ electricity; 6.63 MMGJ steam; 2.41 MMGJ energy for heat recovery) Water Management Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water p. 30 consumed, percentage of each in regions There are 12 operating sites within the Cabot network that are in regions with with High or Extremely High Baseline baseline water stress conditions that are considered Extremely High or High. Of Water Stress these, two facilities are zero discharge designed to recycle 100% of their water captured back into the process. As part of our renewed effort, evaluations at these high-priority plants for ways to improve our overall water use were highlighted by a special project team in 2019 and will be expanded upon by a water use team to meet Cabot’s goal of a 20% reduction in water use. RT-CH-140a.2 Number of incidents of noncompliance There were a total of 13 water-related incidents of noncompliance in 2019. associated with water quality permits, standards and regulations RT-CH-140a.3 Description of water management risks and pp. 7, 30 discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Hazardous Waste Management Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, p. 29 percentage recycled Total amount of hazardous waste generated is 377,000 MT, of which 4.86 MT is recycled or used for energy recovery; 51% of nonhazardous waste is recycled, utilized for energy recovery or reused. Wastes are defined as hazardous based on the local regulations for each facility. 47 SASB CHEMICALS INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Community Relations Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-210a.1 Discussion of engagement processes to pp. 11, 12, 21 manage risks and opportunities associated with community interests Workforce Health & Safety Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-320a.1 (1) TRIR and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct p. 16 employees and (b) contract employees Cabot TRIR: 0.43, LTIR: 0.28, Severity Rate: 7.19, Fatalities: 0; Contractor TRIR: 0.51, LTIR: 0.29, Severity Rate: 14.27, Fatalities: 0 RT-CH-320a.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor and Cabot has an internal IH standard and a hearing conservation standard that applies reduce exposure of employees and contract to its facilities worldwide. The standards require workplace exposure assessments, workers to long-term (chronic) health risks implementing corrective actions where necessary, communicating the results to employees and tracking the data through our central database. The facilities’ implementation of these standards is reviewed on a periodic basis through our audit program. Product Design for Use-Phase Efficiency Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-410a.1 Revenue from products designed for useIn 2020, we introduced new goals related to product sustainability that include phase resource efficiency evaluating the sustainability attributes of our top product applications, after which we will be better positioned to disclose the associated revenue generated from products that impart benefits in use-phase efficiency. Refer to pp. 35-36 for recent examples of products with use-phase efficiency. Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-410b.1 (1) Percentage of products that contain 3% of the products we produced are classified as hazardous, and more than Globally Harmonized System of Classification 95% of those products have undergone a hazard assessment. and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances, (2) percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard assessment RT-CH-410b.2 Discussion of strategy to (1) manage p. 35 chemicals of concern and (2) develop We have a team of product regulatory experts who are responsible for overseeing alternatives with reduced human and/or compliance with our regulatory obligations around the world. This team continuously environmental impact monitors emerging regulations, evaluating and preparing response activities for risks those regulations may present to Cabot products or markets. Cabot takes leadership roles in numerous industry associations in order to advance the health and safety information available on our products. Internally, we have a robust new product development process that includes the evaluation of current and potential regulatory risks associated with our products and raw materials and our newly introduced product sustainability goals’ focus on assessing and subsequently improving the safety profile of new products. Genetically Modified Organisms Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-410c.1 Percentage of products by revenue that Cabot uses minimal organic materials (byproducts from other industries), contain genetically modified organisms and the impact is expected to be minimal. (GMOs) 48 SASB CHEMICALS INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management of the Legal and Regulatory Environment Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related Cabot reviews new or pending regulations that may affect its operations globally to government regulations and/or policy through a variety of mechanisms, including industry associations, newsletters and proposals that address environmental and various other avenues. Cabot may comment on certain of those regulations. We social factors affecting the industry evaluate new regulations to determine what actions are required to implement them throughout the organization, including the financial costs of these regulations to the Corporation. Operational Safety, Emergency Preparedness and Response Production by Reportable Segment Code Accounting Metric Page Number / Response RT-CH-540a.1 Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), p.16 Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR) and Process Safety Incident Count: 15, based on ANSI/API RP 754; Process Safety Total Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) Incident Rate: 0.20. We currently do not calculate the Process Safety Incident Severity Rate. RT-CH-540a.2 Number of transport incidents We had one transportation incident involving a fine, although no material was released from the vehicle, and the incident did not require the filing of a US DOT 5800 form. There were no other transport incidents in 2019 that trigger the filing of a US DOT 5800 report or similar reports in other jurisdictions. 49 SASB CHEMICALS INDEX CABOT CORPORATION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
