CSR Report 2019 1 CO NTE NTS Introduction 3 Responsible business management 31 Preface 3 Human rights 32 About Topdanmark 4 Diversity and women in management 33 How we work with CSR 6 We protect personal data 35 Highlights 2019 10 Artificial intelligence with responsibility 37 Climate – CO2neutral Topdanmark 38 Responsible customer relations 12 Environment is also less plastic 41 We have a big responsibility 12 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 42 Objective for our business 15 CSR programme for suppliers 43 Customer complaints are used constructively 17 Responsible corporate culture 45 Responsible products and services 19 Well-being and commitment 46 Sustainability in claims handling 20 Health in everyday life 47 Prevention of damage caused by cloudbursts 21 The competencies of the future 49 Contingency arrangements in case of extreme weather 22 Helping farmers in the wake of climate change 23 Responsibility and society 51 Prevention of slurry spillage 24 More health to the many 52 Fewer chemicals in the fields 25 Help after a severe injury 53 Initiatives against stress 54 Responsible investments 27 Co-operation on humanitarian organisations 56 Policy for active ownership 28 Tax contributions are also social contributions 57 New level of ambition in 2020 29 CSR initiatives: strategic corridors, UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals 58 2 I NTR O D U C TI O N Preface Welcome to Topdanmark’s CSR report 2019, in which investment side, around 20% of our proyou can read about the initiatives and results for the visions will go to investments in the green transformation. year. Our aim with this report is to present an open and ­transparent description of Topdanmark and our work To further contribute to a sustainable dewith social responsibility. velopment of society, Topdanmark has been associated with the UN Global ­Compact since 2010. We support the 10 principles For Topdanmark, social responsibility goes As a company, we want to be an active of the Compact concerning human rights, hand in hand with our core business. Our participant in the social developments. workers’ rights, the environment and fightproducts and services provide the cusTherefore, we relate to climate change and ing corruption. We interpret the principles tomers with financial and social security the need for a global CO2 reduction. As an so that they create value for our business — ­before, during and after damage or an insurance company, we also feel the conseand the world around us. We are also injury has occurred and in relation to securquences in the form of more extreme and ­working to contribute towards the UN’s ing their pension. We guide the customer all unpredictable weather. ­sustainable development goals (SDGs). through life, and we help with service and advice when needed. We support the Paris Agreement’s target of a maximum temperature rise of 1.5 deA central part of our business model is grees in 2050, and the government’s target I hope you enjoy reading the CSR report! the work on health and well-being of our of a 70% reduction of CO2 emissions in customers. We have numerous health ini2030. Against this background, we want to Yours sincerely, tiatives, which help the customers back to integrate climate and environmental coneveryday life. This is e.g. in relation to stress, siderations into our business, including our which is an increasing problem in Denmark. operations and our investment activities. We consider our health initiatives to be imIn 2019, we have formulated an ambition portant contributions to the Danish society. that we will be CO2 neutral in 2030. On the Peter Hermann, CEO 3 I NTR O D U C TI O N About Topdanmark Topdanmark is both a ­non-life and life insurance Strategy Corridors Customer company, and we offer a Aspiration Kundewide range of insurance aspiration When you are a customer with us, you do Long Term not need to worry about insurances and and pension products to customer your own We du pension. Når ikke doerthatfor you. kunde hos specificsituation, behøveron os,Based we ensureog at bekymre dig om forsikringer du both private, commercial Relations pension. your security and we make sure that being aVicustomer Det gør is easymed vi for dig. andudgangspunkt simple. sikrer din tryghed and a ­ gricultural customers. We are ion we will digthe cutting og sørger for,edge, og enkelt at være kunde. help you when you and at det er nemt The foundation stone of Vi er på forkant og hjælper dig, need når du us. har brug for os. ­Topdanmark was laid in 1899, Strong and today we are approx. Distribution Power 2,400 employees across the country. The head office is located in Ballerup. Topdanmark’s business strategy Expert in Risk We have defined customer aspirations and Management seven strategic corridors aimed at ensuring direction, goals and priorities. Four corridors support Topdanmark’s differentiation from its competitors: long-term customer relations; strong distribution power; expert in risk management; non-life insurance and Non-life and Life life insurance within the same group. Three within the one Group corridors support the execution: commitment Commitment Future Best at and leadership; future technology; best at and Leadership Technology Execution execution. 4 I NTR O D U C TI O N Our products and advice help personal • Buildings are damaged by heavy storm Important distribution partners Ownership ­customers when • The harvest is destroyed by hail, bad Topdanmark is a limited company listed on • The house is damaged by fire or the car weather or fire. Nasdaq Copenhagen A/S. In December 2019, is stolen Topdanmark was included in the C25 index. • Accidents occur in the customer’s Objectives ­spare time or when travelling • To carry out nation-wide, Danish Main stakeholders • Health is failing non-life and life insurance and pension Topdanmark has three mutually dependent • Work life ends fund business. main stakeholders: customers, employees • To be attractive to customers by being and shareholders. Our starting point is that We help businesses and farms — for a competitive independent and pre-­ satisfied customers and qualified employees ­example, in the following situations eminent insurance group. are key to ensuring satisfied shareholders by • Employees have an accident • To ensure that our shareholders achieving a long-term, competitive and stable • Storehouses are flooded ­achieve a long-term, competitive and return. • IT systems are attacked by hackers stable return. Denmark’s second largest Denmark’s fifth largest commercial insurance company life insurance company 2019 key figures 16.2 % market share 10.0 % market share DKK 20.502 m in premiums earned 507,200 private customers 105,400 business and 98,700 private customers 59,600 corporate customers DKK 1.547 m profit ­agricultural customers 86,200 persons with group life insurance 83,7 in combined ratio DKK 93 bn in investment activities > ‌READ MORE ABOUT TOPDANMARK, E.G. ORGANISATION, BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS 5 I NTR O D U C TI O N How we work with CSR For Topdanmark, responsibility is a core value, and social It is Topdanmark’s assessment that the folOveview responsibility goes hand in hand with the core business. lowing sustainable development goals are On page 58 there is an overview of the the most significant: connection between our various CSR We assume responsibility for customers, and as an insur ­efforts, the seven strategic corridors, ance and pension company, our products, services and Goal 3: Good Health and the UN Global Compact principles and advice offer customers financial and social security when Well-being sustainable development goals. damage or an injury occurs or when their work life ends. Climate challenges Topdanmark has a particular focus on Topdanmark contributes to loss prevention responsibility in companies, and it consists Goal 5: Gender Equality climate changes and supports the Paris and limitation of the consequence of injuof ten principles for the sustainable develAgreement’s target of a maximum temperaries and accidents suffered by customers. opment of society concerning human rights, ture rise of 1.5 degrees in 2050, in addition We run a good and stable business, which workers’ rights, the environment and fightto the government’s Climate Act on a 70% benefits our customers, employees, shareing corruption. reduction of CO2 emissions in 2030. holders and society. Goal 8: Decent Work and We support the 10 principles and continEconomic Growth Topdanmark analyses both the financial Therefore, a business-oriented approach to uously work to integrate them into the risks for the business as well as the opporCSR is quite natural. Our ambition is that business. They indicate where we are at risk tunities to contribute to the reduction of our efforts should support our business of negative impact, and where we can posiCO2 and a sustainable society. goals and strategic corridors (page 4) as tively promote the 10 principles. Goal 12: Responsible Conwell as contribute positively to the sustainasumption and Production Human rights ble development of our society. UN’s sustainable development goals We respect internationally recognised huWe also want to contribute to the UN’s 17 man rights, and our aim is to integrate the International principles for sustainability sustainability goals based on an assessUN’s principles for human rights and busiSince 2010, Topdanmark has taken part in ment of which of the goals we can best Goal 13: Climate Action nesses into the operation of our business. the Global Compact, the UN initiative for ­influence in a positive direction as a finanprivate businesses and organisations. It cial company. is the world’s largest initiative for social 6 I NTR O D U C TI O N Organisation of CSR Involvement of stakeholders The Board of Directors: Approves CSR The demands and expectations of the surpolicies, policies for active ownership and rounding world on how companies integrate diversity policies social, climate and environmental considerations into their business strategies have Executive management: Approves annual increased significantly in recent years. CSR reporting, selected policies and proTherefore, we are in continuous dialogue jects with a wide range of stakeholders to assess what challenges, requirements and expecCSR steering group: The steering group tations should be included in our CSR work. meets at least three times a year and is This applies, for example, to the following responsible for the CSR strategy and evalstakeholders: uation of results. The steering group is re• Employees sponsible for the annual CSR report • Customers • Investors CSR responsible: Ensures implementation • Professional associations of the CSR strategy, prepares CSR reporting • Suppliers and other communication. Engages in dia• NGO’s logue with NGOs and other stakeholders. • Governmental institutions • ESG rating agencies CSR steering committee Social Underwriting Responsabel Investment 7 I NTR O D U C TI O N How to select our CSR efforts Risk analysis 2019 High risk Our CSR work is based on two main Topdanmark annually conducts an analysis ­elements: of significant CSR risks. It is divided into Internal ​ External Risk analyses: an analysis of our risk of “internal risks”, i.e. risks related to internal ​ failing to comply with the principles of the processes, and “external risks” which are Investment of pension funds and reserves from Cybercrime UN Global Compact, and the consequences external and social risks. The analysis is the insurance business in companies that are Climate change it could potentially have for our business, based — partly on an internal assessment not in compliance with the UN Global Compact Increase in mental illnesses, including stress and an analysis of external CSR risks and — and partly on external risk reports, e.g. principles ​ their impact on our business. See the Global Risk Report 2019. The analysis is ­overview of the risk analysis to the right. used to assess which topics to work on. Incorrect handling of personal data Inappropriate customer advice and product sales, Opportunity analysis: an analysis of where Future plans lack of clarity on conditions and errors in claims we believe we have the best opportunities We have planned numerous initiatives inhandling to make a positive contribution to the UN tending to improve the integration of susGlobal Compact principles, the UN’s sustaintainability considerations into our business Dissatisfaction and stress among employees ability development goals. strategy, our investments and the operation Gender imbalance in management of our organisation: ​ The analyses include requirements and • CO2 neutral Topdanmark in 2030 Medium risk ­expectations from our stakeholders. • ESG will be integrated in underwriting, i.e. in the preparation of new products, Internal External in terms and conditions, and in claims handling Negative impact on the UN Global Compact in • Systematic and more comprehensive connection with supplier cooperation risk analysis • New ESG aspiration for investments Low risk • Implementation of a code of conduct for employees and suppliers Internal ​ External ​ Implementation of the new initiatives will Irresponsible use of IoT, artificial intelligence and Money laundering and financing of terrorism be initiated in 2020. big data Error in video observation of customers in case of any suspicion of fraud Bribery/corruption in connection with sales and > R EAD MORE ABOUT THE BACKGROUND procurement OF THE ANALYSIS 8 I NTR O D U C TI O N CSR-strategy of Danish Executive Order on Financial ReCustomer relations: We want to ensure the ports for Insurance Companies and Lateral financial, social and health-related security Pension Funds). Our aim with this report of our customers, and make sure that being Customer is to present an open and transparent derelations a Topdanmark customer is easy. scription of Topdanmark and our work with social responsibility. Products and services: We want to offer relevant and sustainable products and serProduct Limitations and evaluation of data Society vices to our customers. and services The report covers the financial year 2019. The report applies to all subsidiaries of Investment: We want to create the highest Topdanmark. In the ESG report for 2019 possible return, while at the same time (see below) the method for the calculation contribute to sustainable development in of the individual data is thoroughly exsociety. plained. Corporate culture: We want to create a fun, New ESG report for 2019 bold and healthy working day for our emCorporate Investment We find that investors attach increasingployees for the benefit of both the employculture ly more importance to the environment, ees and our business. social factors and corporate governance (ESG) as important elements in their Business management: We want to act reassessment of us as a company. We exBusiness sponsibly in terms of legislation, corporate pect this to continue. With the new ESG management governance and in relation to the UN Globreport, we want to meet the requirements al Compact principles on climate, human of investors and ESG rating agencies to rights and anti-corruption. get a quick overview of ESG indicators. The report primarily contains data, methSociety: We want to contribute to the solureport, which is also a progress report for od description and comments on selected tion of health-related challenges in society CSR report: status of the efforts of the UN Global Compact. It thus constitutes key figures, and it also covers the finanwith our products and in collaboration with the year our mandatory report on Corporate Social cial year 2019. relevant organisations. We prepare an annual mandatory CSR Responsibility (see sections 132a and 132b > R EAD ESG REPORT 2019 9 I NTR O D U C TI O N Highlights 2019 CSR objectives for 2019 Status Increase in tNPS (transaction Net Promoter Score) √ Customer relation 48 point in tNPS (transaction Net Promoter Score) Increase in EPSI rating — 75.3 point in EPSI, private customers First place in Aalund rating in all three categories: satisfaction, image and loyalty – in our Maintain first place in Aalund rating √ ­primary segment of companies with 10–49 employees Finding in our favour in the majority of cases brought before The Insurance Products and services Complaints Board – life insurance √ 42% of damaged car windows were repaired 70% of damaged electronics were repaired Finding in our favour in the majority of cases brought before The Insurance Complaints Board – non-life insurance √ Climate and environment 25% of total power consumption covered by own solar cells No investments in contravention of UN Global Compact √ 35% reduction in disposable plastic Increase in repair and recycling in claims handling √ Corporate culture 2,318 fulltime employees Min. 40% of both genders at all levels of management √ DKK 33m for skills development 304 employees participated in We Bike to Work At least one female candidate at job interviews for advertised managerial positions — 2.7% in absence due to illness 13.9 % in employee turnover Reduction of CO2 emissions (√ ) Society Less consumption of disposable plastic √ DKK 10,636 m paid to insurance customers 315,800 people with claims who we have helped Absence due to illness should be below the figure for the entire insurance industry √ 29,200 persons, who were injured and we have helped 124 companies which we have entered into dialogue with regarding health and well-being Employee turnover at the same level as in 2018 √ DKK 441m in corporate tax DKK 892,533 thousand donated to humanitarian organisations by employees and T ­ opdanmark. 10 11 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S Responsible customer relations When you are a customer with us, you do not need to worry about insurances and pension. We do that for you. Based on your own specific situation, we ensure your ­security and we make sure that being a customer is easy and simple. We are on the cutting edge, and we will help you when you need us. This is Topdanmark’s ambition for how our In order to minimise these risks and to customers should see us. With our products increase the value for the customer, we and services, we want to help customers continuously work on improving both our regardless of the situation. We want to adcustomer services, claims process and sales dress our customers’ concerns in everyday process. life and help them along in life. In the customer relation, we always strive We have a big responsibility to: Through our products and services, we • Secure a coverage suited to the contribute to the customers’ financial and ­customer’s needs and requests social security. This is a responsibility that • Easy to understand, precise and we take very seriously. ­balanced product information • Transparency on price increases Responsibility is about i.a. being attentive • Ensure that the customer gets easy to the risks relating to our business e.g. and fair claims handling • inappropriate customer advice and • Give the customer easy access to a fair ­product sales complaints process • lack of clarity on conditions, prices and fees • errors in claims handling so that the On the next pages is described how we customer does not receive the correct ensure that we live up to our ambition and compensation minimise risks. • errors in the complaint process. 12 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S Coverage suited to the customer’s needs Quality requirements are monitored have a reporting system which means that Transparency for products and processes and requests We have a central as well as several local we evaluate inappropriate situations so We service and provide advice on subjects We want the customer to have coverage compliance departments, which ensure that as to improve customer service and avoid and situations that may be complicated for that specifically matches their needs and our salespersons adhere to our business mistakes. our customers. For example, this applies requests. This way, they will enjoy the finanprocesses and quality requirements. We when purchasing our products – particularcial and social security that they need. ly online and without direct contact to an employee. The claims process may also be We are aware that this requires that cuscomplex. tomers receive good and accurate customer advice from competent employees. Therefore, we continually work on preparing information on products, price and One way we ensure this is by hiring trained coverage so that it is as easy as possible to employees. All salespersons are trained comprehend and find . Current and potenat Forsikringsakademiet (the Insurance tial customers are thus better able to obtain Academy), and new employees are thoran overview. Based on customer feedback, oughly trained in Topdanmark’s business we continuously work on improving all procedures for what we consider to be an product information. expedient and responsible sales process. We also ensure ongoing improvement of When Topdanmark prepares new insurance the skills and personal competences of the terms, customer feedback is also included employees. in addition to general experience. Furthermore, the text is always scrutinised by a Directive on correct communication copywriter to ensure that the content is In 2018, Topdanmark implemented IDD (Inunderstandable to the average customer. surance Distribution Directive). This is a EuAll information on the insurance is stated ropean directive on correct insurance comin the terms – no information is hidden or munication, which has now been applied to ‘written in small print’ Danish national rules. The rules have been set up to ensure increased consumer proTransparency on price tection. This means, among other things, In accordance with good practice, we are that our employees are obliged to clearly obliged to state the full price including all state what coverage is provided with our incharges and fees. Of course, Topdanmark surance, so that the customer can make an lives up to this requirement the informainformed choice. tion appears in the terms. Fees which are not directly related to the insurance price 13 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S are stated on our website, e.g. early terand how the further process will take place. tion, in which they describe what happened any difference that may be and inform the mination fee. Changes to fees are notified In this, personal contact is important to rather than having to deal with relevant customer. according to legislation. some, while others benefit from the flexibiliinsurance. ty of digital solutions. It is possible to report Quality control of the claims handling Fair and easy claims handling almost all claims digitally. The process can take place without a policy process Topdanmark wants to help customers number to make it as easy for the customer In order to minimise the number of errors, and ensure that they always receive easy Overview via a personal customer profile as possible. For the same reason, our clients our claims handling is continuously quality and fair claims handling, so that they feel Mit Topdanmark (My Topdanmark), the indican give others, for example, cohabiters, auassured through internal controls and diacomfortable with the vidual customer profile, thority to act on their behalf and have aclogue with employees. We are aware that non-life insurance and helps establish an overcess to view their insurance and pension. In even if we try to have the best processes, pension they have purview of the customer’s 2019, 64% of claims were reported digitally. we may be wrong. The best sparring for 95 chased from us. Our insurance situation – improvement we actually get from the cusgoal is for customers particularly in case of a We pay attention to errors tomers who have been through a claims to receive compensa% claim. The solutions are We process more than 300,000 claims process. tion quickly, efficiently, of all types of claims developed on an ongoa year. Therefore, errors cannot be comwith great service and can be reported digiing basis, so they conpletely avoided in our claims handling – e.g. We retrieve knowledge about our customaccording to the terms tally. In 2019, 64% tain personalised and errors in data entry ers’ experiences of the policy. of all claims were relevant information when creating a through systematic ­reported digitally. about the individual claim. Our wish is to customer surveys. 300,000 Especially after damcustomer. have as few errors We ask our customage or in case of as possible, as errors ers for their opinions illness, Topdanmark, In 2019, for example, it are of great inconfor example, when as an insurance and has become possible for venience to our cusclaims a year they contact us by pension company, must show our value to customers with both private and commertomers. telephone, use our customers. We want to provide an uncomplicial insurances at Topdanmark to see the self-service solutions cated and efficient claims handling process terms for both types of insurance on the When we become or report a claim. On that gives the customers a personal expesame customer profile without the need of aware of an error, we an annual basis, we rience and makes it easy to be a customer a power of attorney. fix it immediately. If the error has an impact get approx. 130,000 customers’ responses with Topdanmark. And that the claims hanon the customer’s compensation or the to the customer surveys we conduct. dling is fair. Easy to report a claim online ­future process that the customer has to Our customers can report up to 95% of all go through, we will inform you about the We continuously follow up on customer Topdanmark has implemented solutions claims directly on our website in an easy error. For example, if we have charged too feedback and look at how we can customise that ensure that the customer quickly gets and simple way. The claims form focuses much in deductible or paid too little in our solutions and processes based on cusan understanding of how they are covered on the customers’ experience of the situacompensation to the customer, we will pay tomer needs. 14 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S Objective for our business Topdanmark makes targeted efforts to ensure that all Topdanmark monitors customer satisfaction nally, Topdanmark receives direct feedback our customers have the best possible experience with through a transactional Net Promoter Score from our customers reviewing us on the (tNPS). It tells us whether our customers review platform, Trustpilot. us. Our goal is for customers to be so satisfied with our want to recommend us to others after they ­products and services that they remain customers with have been in contact with us. In addition, Topdanmark monitors the results to see us, and at the same time want to recommend us to others Topdanmark uses EPSI, KPMG and Aalund, how customers evaluate us compared with which conduct external, independent surthe other insurance and pension companies — Topdanmark sees this as an indicator of our good and veys on customer satisfaction for Topdanin the market. Topdanmark also uses the solid relationship with the customers. mark and Topdanmark Livsforsikring. Firesults to improve our efforts. 15 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S Progress to be traced in internal analyses and with a focus on making it easy and Customer surveys: objectives and results In 2019, our internal analyses have shown ­simple to be a customer. an increase in the customers’ inclination Objectives 2016 2017 2018 2019 to recommend us compared with previous At Trustpilot, we have passed 25,000 cusyear. This applies to both customers who tomer reviews in 2019, of which 90% have tNPS for contact by telephone 49 45 48 Increase in points have called us and customers who have given us a score above average. It also (-100-+100) 1) used our self-service solutions at Mit Topdshows that we are on the right track with anmark. This is a satisfactory result. good service to our customers. tNPS for digital self-service 38 38 44 Increase in points (-100-+100) 1) We see it as a result of having increased our In contrast, the EPSI rating, which was availability on the telephone compared with made in the autumn, shows a decline in the EPSI rating for private customers in 74.5 76.8 77.5 75.3 2018, as well as the improvements we have private market. We believe that part of the Topdanmark non-life insurance made to our digital self-service solutions. explanation lies in the fact that we have Increase in points (0-100 points) not done enough to proactively contact our External analyses show mixed results customers, which they prefer — we will do EPSI rating for commercial customers in 73.5 73.5 69.1 Among the external analyses, we have both more of this in the future. Furthermore, we Topdanmark non-life insurance know that our shift in banking partnership Increase in points satisfactory results, and results that provide (0-100 points) 2) food for thought. from Danske Bank to Nordea has caused some confusion for many of our customers. Aalund rating 2nd place 1st place 1st place 1st place In 2019, for the second year in a row, we We are still working to do better. Maintain the position as the life insurance company with the most satisfied customers. 3) were rated as the best insurance company in KPMG’s annual customer experience sur1) tNPS is calculated as net result of the share of ”promotors” (who replied 9-10) less the share of ”detractors” vey in 10 different sectors. Topdanmark is in (who replied 0-6) on the question to what extent they would recommend Topdanmark to others. fact the only insurance company on the list 2) EPSI did not perform a survey on commercial customers in 2018. 3) Among the three parametres in the Aalund rating – satisfaction, image and loyalty – we report on the result for of 50 companies. ’­satisfaction’ for companies with 10–49 employees which is Topdanmark Livsforsikring’s primary segment. We also maintained first place in Aalund’s rating of our life insurance company in the Customer satisfaction score on Trustpilot: Overview ‘satisfaction’ category, and also got first place in the other two categories, ‘loyalty’ 2016 2017 2018 2019 and ‘image’. We are very pleased with this, Total score on Trustpilot 8.9 8.8 8.6 4.4 * as the year has been marked by changes Topdanmark with a new administration system. The sur(1-10 og 1-5) vey shows that our customers acknowledge * Note: In 2019, Trustpilot changed the TrustScore to a five-point scale. Converted to the old scale, the result was 8.8 in 2019. a customer service at a stable high level 16 R E S P O N S I B L E CUS TO M E R R E L ATI O N S Customer complaints are used constructively Topdanmark process approx. 300,000 claims a year. Decisions by the Insurance Complaints not to accept the decision. In 2019, we had Therefore, it cannot be avoided that we receive complaints Board one decision, which Topdanmark non-life If the customer’s complaint is upheld, then insurance chose not to observe as we disafrom customers about the compensation or service they as a general rule, Topdanmark complies gree in principle with the Board’s decision. have received. We use the complaints to improve our comwith the decision. Only in exceptional casIf we do not accept the Board’s decision, munication and advice. es where we disagree in principle with the the customer can bring the case before a Board’s decision will we assess whether or court of law. Insurance and pension products can be difCorrect decisions are the goal ficult to understand, and in some cases the If, in private insurance cases, the customer compensation or assistance in the claims disagrees with our decision on a claim, the situation does not live up to the customer’s customer is entitled to appeal to the Insurexpectation. This may be due, for example, ance Complaints Board (Ankenævnet for Percentage of decisions in Topdanmark’s favour* to restrictions in the terms of which the Forsikring). customer has not been aware of, or that the 2016 2017 2018 2019 customer is unable to document the values The number of customer complaints that to be replaced. are passed on to the Insurance Complaints Non-life insurance 78 77 78 85 Board is under one per thousand claims we We attach great importance to our cusreceive. Life insurance 88 82 100 100 tomers being clearly informed about their avenues of complaint, and that they are enOur goal is to succeed in as many appeal sured an easy and fair complaint process. cases as possible brought before the Insurance Complaints Board so as to demonCustomer complaints make us improve strate that our decisions are correct. In Number of decisions at the Insurance Complaints Board Customer complaints can also be an expres2019, we succeeded in 84.6% of the cases sion of our inability to communicate the for non-life insurance, and in 100% of cases 2016 2017 2018 2019 terms and conditions of our policies or our in life insurance, which is very satisfactory. decisions. We therefore use customer comNon-life insurance 122 131 129 117 plaints to assess how we can improve our Regardless of the outcome of appeal cases, communication and advice. we always analyse how we can improve Life insurance 24 11 21 8 communication with our customers. 17 18 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Responsible products and services Global cloudbursts with intense flooding. Large wooded Environmental challenges ­areas with trees felled by severe storms. Drought and seIn addition to climate change, society also Plans for 2020 faces a number of challenges in relation to In 2020, we will look into how we can vere water shortages. In recent years, we have experienced our environment. For example, in Denmark integrate climate and environment more extreme weather as a result of higher temperatures — and globally — there is a reduction of biointo our business more strategically and general climate change. As an insurance company, diversity, too much nitrogen emission in sea and systematically. We will also take areas, and over consumption of resources. a closer look at whether our products the situation is also a challenge. We want to contribute to and services have a negative impact ­solutions with responsible products and ­services. As always, our priority is to help customers on the climate and the environment. prevent damage, and provide compensation The more extreme weather is a challenge Our priority is to help our customers, both and advice when the damage has occurred. for everyone, including us as an insurance in preventing damage that can occur as a But we also want to integrate environmencompany. We face the consequences of our result of extreme weather, and to help them tal considerations into our products, claims customers. when the damage has occurred. In the fuhandling and when advising our customers. ture, we would also like to help customers We need both quick solutions to how we become more climate friendly, for example How we integrate climate and environment adapt to changing weather conditions and through energy optimisation. Topdanmark works with climate and enlong-term solutions in which everyone vironmental conditions in the business in should be involved in partnerships: citizens, The new weather challenges call for us to various ways, for example in product develpublic authorities, private players, NGOs — continuously develop new products and seropment, claims handling and contingency and Topdanmark. vices that meet the customers’ new needs planning. On the nest pages is a description for security and stability in everyday life. of a number of products and services in We support the Paris Agreement’s target of This also applies in situations with more exwhich climate and environment are intea maximum temperature rise of 1.5 degrees treme weather. grated: > R EAD HOW WE INTEGRATE CLIMATE AND by 2050, and we want to integrate climate • Sustainability in claims handling ­E NVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS INTO THE considerations into the way we do business. As an insurance company, climate change • Increased contingency arrangements OPERATIONS OF OUR BUSINESS ON PAGE 38 At the same time, we want to support the poses a business risk, as it can lead to inin case of extreme weather government’s Climate Act and the goal of a creased claims costs. The risk is mitigated • Helping farmers in the wake of climate > R EAD HOW WE INTEGRATE CLIMATE AND 70% CO2 reduction in 2030. in various ways, for example through a comchange ­E NVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS INTO prehensive reinsurance programme and risk • Prevention of slurry spillage OUR INVESTMENTS ON PAGE 27 based pricing. • Fewer chemicals in the field 19 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Sustainability in claims handling As a non-life insurance company, we process many Goal ­damage claims to buildings, cars and objects, such as­ 2021 2017 2018 2019 Evaluering ­furniture, mobile phones and computers. In this process, we can focus on recycling and repair. Increased num– 15 pieces of fur22 pieces of The conber of furniture niture and obfurniture and obcept has not Topdanmark processes a great deal of After damage to buildings and objects for jects donated jects in addition achieved the claims annually — damage to cars, buildings, • Repair of buildings rather than replacerecycling to Actalliance to two boxes of expected result furniture, objects and IT equipment. It’s our ment, whenever possible in Copenhagen clothing donated and will be whole business — helping customers in diffi• Sales of building materials for recycling to Actalliance in evaluated in cult and hard situations. In case of a claim, • Donation of furniture and objects for Copenhagen 2020 we either pay an amount to buy a new item recycling Goal or pay for repair. After damageto cars 2021 2017 2018 2019 Evaluering We want to integrate climate and environ• Repair of car windows rather than mental considerations into the claims han­replacement whenever technically Increase in the – 38 % 42 % A new set-up dling when possible. We do this by promot­possible ­ percentage of has made it ing recycling and repair, and we have set a • Used parts whenever possible repair of car possible to number of objectives in this area. • Sales of written-off cars whenever windows increase the ­possible share of repairs, which is After damage to electronics satisfactory Plans for 2020 • Repair rather than replacement, Goal In 2020, we will analyse how we can ­whenever possible work with repair and recycling in our 2021 2017 2018 2019 Evaluering claims handling processes in a more systematic manner. Increase in the 57 % 66 % 70 % The biggest inpercentage of crease took place repair of telein 2017/2018 due phones, computto change of ers and tablets supplier 20 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Prevention of damage caused by cloudbursts In recent years, our corporate customers have experienced an increase in damage as a result of climate change. We want to help prevent the damage, so that our customers can run a stable operation. Topdanmark’s core competencies are to We have good experience with this process, work with risk assessment, safety and secuin which customers are actively involved rity. On a daily basis, we help our corporate in the selection of the specific solution. It customers prevent damage caused by exis far more motivating than just being retreme weather — especially in the prevenquired to implement a standard solution. tion of damage caused by cloudbursts. Preventing cloudburst damage gives the Customers are part of the solution customers greater assurance of stable opIf we assess that a corporate customer has eration, and for us, this means a lower risk a particularly high risk of cloudburst damof claims and claims payments. age, we require prevention efforts be made. The selection of the concrete initiatives is always in close dialogue with the customer. Our engineering team advises the customer on possible solutions, such as the installation of a groundwater pump, and based on the advice, the customer makes the final decision on solutions. 21 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Contingency arrangements in case of extreme weather As an insurance company, we feel the consequences of Contingency plan ensures quick assistance ­climate change and the more extreme weather by more Our contingency plan consists of four Plans for 2020 ­levels, to the effect that efforts can be The contingency plan is adjusted and weather-related claims than previously. Therefore, we have scaled as needed. It includes contingency updated on an ongoing basis based a special contingency plan, thus we can help our customers arrangements of about 120 emergency on experience from at least one when it rains cats and dogs, or the storm is raging. responders, i.e. employees who can be ­annual exercise and previous weather summoned to answer phone calls, register situations. and handle claims, so that customers can The weather has become more extreme all All in all, the more extreme and changing get help quickly. The number of emergency Based on the climate changes and over the world, and we also see it in Denweather conditions mean an increase in our ­responders depend on the level set. the increase in the number of claims mark. In 2019, for example, the rainy season customers’ use of insurance. This means in 2019, we have decided that from lasted all the way through autumn and winthat we need to be especially prepared to Everyone who has a role in the contingency 2020, we will initiate the emergency ter, compared with previously when it ended help customers in difficult situations. Therearrangements is prepared and knows their plan earlier than we have done before, in early September. We also had the most fore, we have a contingency plan which plan of operation. Emergency responders i.e. also in the event smaller events. rainy season for many years. In 2019, we ensures that we can help the customers as are trained twice a year, and small exercises This is done to help our customers in had almost 80% more rain and cloudburst quickly as possible and in the best possible are performed on a regular basis to ensure the best possible way. claims compared with 2018. manner, and at the same time limit the exthat we are always ready to help. tent of their damage. Robot helps out in busy situations ters and handles the claims in our systems When the ­weather is raging and many — it releases resources in a busy ­situation. claims occur, our telephones may 120 become busy due to customers wanting to report a claim. To have as is the number of ­extra emmany employees ployees that can be sumon the telephone moned to assist c ­ ustomers as possible, we in case of ­extreme weathhave developed a er robot that regis22 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Helping farmers in the wake of climate change As an insurance company, our most important job is to ­ensure our agricultural customers a safe and stable ­business by helping with prevention and compensation when the damage has occurred. With our services and products, we also want to help with climate and environ© jakub pavlinec 2008 mental challenges. The consequences of climate change with Many farmers expect more unstable more extreme and unpredictable weather weather can adversely affect crop yields, and thus Prior to the development of the new inhit farmers hard financially. Therefore, in surance product, we have researched the 2019, as the first Danish company, we have agricultural sector’s needs and concerns introduced crop insurance that provides in relation to severe weather in the future, compensation for loss of crop yield caused and how it will affect the crop yield. Of the by extreme weather. The insurance covers responding farmers, 59% responded that up to 80% of the farmer’s lost earnings. they expect more unstable weather over the next 10 years. Drought, cloudbursts, storms and hail were primarily identified as Helping farmers in the wake of climate the major adverse climate impacts for the change harvest. The same proportion of farmers The product itself does not directly contribexpressed interest in an insurance product. ute to solving the climate challenges, but it helps farmers, so that they can continue their business without loss. In the future, this may help to smooth cyclical fluctuations in relation to effects of the climate changes. 23 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Prevention of slurry spillage Damage to the slurry tank is of great inconvenience to Together with SEGES, a professional knowlto the tank, and if the level is becoming critthe farmer and a high-cost business for Topdanmark. edge and innovation centre under the ically low. This way, we can avoid damage Danish Agriculture & Food Council, we have and slurry spillage. ­Furthermore, it has severe negative consequences if ­ tested a digital solution which helps the slurry seeps out into the ground. Therefore, we are farmers prevent damage to slurry tanks. According to our plan, the solution should testing a solution to prevent damage from occurring. The solution will make life easier for the be implemented at a large number of farms farmer — and it also contributes to prevent during 2020. Afterwards, a thorough evaluslurry spillage in fields and water streams. ation will be carried out. Damage to slurry tanks often happen when the slurry level is critically low. With the digital solution, the farmer can keep an eye on the slurry level and thus prevent damage Activities in 2019 and and slurry spillage. plans for 2020 The solution was tested with a numSensor solution provides an overview ber of customers in 2018, and the The solution is a combination of a sensor response has been positive. In 2019, on the slurry tank and an IoT platform that we have improved the solution and collect and process the data. Subsequently, made it ready for implementation at the results are available to the farmer at a large number of farms during 2020. the website Landmand.dk. This means that Afterwards, a thorough evaluation will the farmer can monitor the slurry level and be carried out. receive a text message if the level of slurry in the tank drops drastically. The direct access to data on the capacity of a given slurry tank makes it easier to plan the handling of the slurry and the usage on the fields. The farmers also get a certain indication on when not to add more slurry 24 R E S P O N S I B L E PR O D U C TS A N D S E RVI CE S Fewer chemicals in the field Lodged corn poses a financial risk to farmers. For many years the problem has been solved by using chemicals to regulate crop growth. In the future there will be another and more environmentally friendly option. Lodged corn is a major problem for farmInsurance solution replaces chemicals ers, as the crops cannot be harvested. It However, growth regulation is not an causes a financial loss. To reduce this risk, ­optimal solution, as the chemicals risk many farmers choose to regulate growth ­damaging the crop itself — and thus cause of their crops. This means that the straw less crop yield. is shortened and strengthened so that the crop does not break easily. Against this backdrop, in 2019, we have researched and tested an insurance solution, enabling farmers to completely avoid growth-regulating chemistry in the fields. And for now, it looks promising. In short, the solution is that farmers are paid compensation if they avoid growth regulation, and the corn breaks. The test was carried out in collaboration with 11 farmers, SEGES and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in relation to winter wheat. Plans for 2020 Based on the experiences from the With this initiative, we also hope that we test in 2019, we will continue the collacan help the Danish agricultural sector in boration with SEGES and continue to their efforts to reduce, among other things, test different opportunities. chemicals consumption and thus pay even more attention to the environment. 25 26 R E S P O N S I B L E I N V E S TM E NTS Responsible investments As part of Topdanmark’s business, we invest the insurance Topdanmark wants to attain the biggest which consists of 10 principles concerning reserves and pension customers’ savings until the funds possible return on investments in relation human rights, workers’ rights, environment to risk, but we also want to ensure that and fighting corruption. These principles are paid in the form of compensation, pension payments value creation is responsible and not in conform the framework of our policies. and the like. travention of the internationally recognised standards and principles or conventions In practice this means that respecting adopted by Denmark. the 10 principles is an integral part of our investment policy. In 2019, we have thus Topdanmark has its own asset management carried out ongoing screening and aswhich invests actively. That means that we sessment of existing share portfolios for select for ourselves which shares, bonds, positions with consideration given to the property types, etc. to invest in and for how UN Global Compact. New investments are long. generally not carried out if the investments are in contravention of the ten principles. The UN Global Compact provides the Furthermore, we follow the Danish Business overall framework Authority’s guidelines on responsible inAs a means to ensuring the above, Topdanvestments. mark has joined the UN’s Global Compact, Responsible investment: activities and results for 2019 Objectives Activities Results The investment return is Screening and evaluation of No investments in shares Foto: Kalinovsky Dmitry created with consideration shareholdings for positions have been made which may to the UN Global Compact in compliance with the UN be seen as in conflict with Global Compact the UN Global Compact. 27 R E S P O N S I B L E I N V E S TM E NTS Policy for active ownership Topdanmark has a policy for active ownership based upon “Recommendations on Active Ownership” as launched by the Corporate Governance Committee. In this context, ­active ownership is about how an investor uses the company’s general meeting as a tool to exert influence and how to report voting. Topdanmark has determined that we re• The extent to which Topdanmark has port voting on active ownership in Danish participated in the company’s general companies if we control more than 2% of meeting the votes or the share capital and if Topd• The extent to which Topdanmark voted anmark is not represented on the Board of Directors. We report: Activities and results for 2019 Ownership share Meeting with Important end of 2019 Participated in AGM Voted on AGM ­management Investor meeting outstanding accounts H+H ­International 4.63 no no no yes no Scalepoint ­Technologies 3.36 no no yes no no Holding 28 R E S P O N S I B L E I N V E S TM E NTS New level of ambition for 2020 In 2020, Topdanmark will launch a new, individualised Investments and tax • UN Convention on Certain Conventional ­pension product in 2020 — Formålspension (Purpose As far as responsibility on tax is concerned, Weapons (CCW including Protocols I-V) Topdanmark does not enter into transac• UN Convention on Biological Weapons ­pension). Formålspension is a life-cycle product in which tions in which avoiding or reducing ordinary (BWC) customers can choose between four specific purposes in tax payments is a prime mover for our • UN Convention on Chemical Weapons which the customer’s pension funds must be invested. investment motive or for any co-investors (CWC) with whom we coordinate the transactions. • UN Convention on Anti-Personnel ­Mines (Ottawa Convention) One of the four purposes is ‘Green transtobacco, adult entertainment, online betting Exclusion • UN Convention on Cluster Munitions formation’. When choosing this purpose, and weapons are rejected. Before investing, we ensure that the compa(Oslo Convention) up to 20% of pension savings are invested nies comply with the 10 principles of the UN according to the main themes of a green Supporting the Paris Agreement Global Compact. As a consequence, in 2020, The exclusion list applies to both investenergy transformation. Investments are In the investment activities undertaken by we will introduce a theme-based exclusion ments of the insurance reserves and the made in companies that are considered to Topdanmark Livsforsikring, Topdanmark will list, as we do not invest in producers of: savings of pension customers. have particularly favourable opportunities take into account the transformation of the • Smoking tobacco to benefit from the changes in the way energy supply in accordance with the UN • Fossil fuels based on tar sands Organisation energy is produced and used — companies Climate Convention UNFCCC — which the • Thermal coal The Board of Topdanmark Asset Managewhich focus on more efficient use of reParis Agreement is part of. ment has the chief responsibility for the sources and on emission reductions (e.g. Furthermore, Topdanmark does not invest policy on responsible investment, while CO2) within the business sectors of supply, Against this background, the company in companies that produce illegal weapons, ­Topdanmark Asset Management is retechnology, cleantech, industry, transport, has set a goal that green investments will i.e. weapons covered by conventions that sponsible for implementing the policy and special chemistry and waste. constitute approx. 20% of the provisions in Denmark has acceded to. This applies to: continually monitoring and ensuring that Topdanmark Livsforsikring in 2030. investments continue to fulfil the principles Regardless of the investment choices made of our policy. in Formålspension, the investments are Analysis of indirect CO2 emission subject to increased ESG (Environmental, In 2020, we will extend our measurements Social & Governance) considerations. Manand reporting on ESG factors, including > R EAD MORE ABOUT FORMÅLSPENSION ufacturers of fossil fuels, extraction of raw the indirect CO2 emissions from our invest(IN DANISH ONLY) materials outside industrialised countries, ments. > R EAD THE POLICY FOR ACTIVE OWNERSHIP *Statute of the International Criminal Court 29 30 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Responsible business management Topdanmark considers responsible corporate governance For Topdanmark, responsible corporate a prerequisite for maintaining and developing long-term ­governance also means that we live up to Topdanmark’s position on the expectations of the UN Global Compact relationships with all stakeholders — and this is important to our image. Responsible business management means on the integration of the 10 principles in how we conduct our business. lobbyism that we comply with legal requirements, recommendaWe continuously assess which risks we have Topdanmark does not conduct intions for good corporate governance as well as rules and for negatively affecting the principles and dependent lobbyism. Topdanmark ­recommendations from the Danish trade association what consequences this will have to our tries to influence political processes, for insurance companies and pension funds Insurance & business. Based on this assessment, we legislation and the like, which relate decide how to deal with the challenges we to insurance and pensions, through ­Pension Denmark (Forsikring & Pension), and that all is find. We divide it into the following areas: the insurance association Forsikring ­fully integrated into the operation of our business. • Human Rights & Pension, in which Topdanmark’s • Climate CEO sits on the board. There is no • Environment financial or other form of support for • Anti-corruption political parties. On the next pages is described each area of the policy, risk assessment, objectives, ­activities and results of the year. Plans for 2020 Topdanmark already has numerous policies and management systems in place to ensure that we live up to the goal of being a company with respon> R EAD MORE ABOUT OUR WORK WITH THE sible management. In 2020, we will COMMITTEE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE focus even further on responsibility, AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS ON GOOD as we expect to prepare a code of con­CORPORATE GOVERNANCE duct that will be a set of overall, ethical guidelines for us as a company, for > R EAD MORE ABOUT TOPDANMARK’S our employees and for our partners. ­W HISTLE-BLOWER SCHEME 31 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Human rights International human rights are integrated into the Danish labour market model and as such a natural part of our foundation and corporate governance. As a company, it is our responsibility to pay attention to whether through our activities we have a negative impact on human rights. We take this responsibility seriously. Topdanmark respects internationally recogExternally, we practice human rights by nised human rights, and our aim is to never investment screenings for our customers. infringe them. The screenings are based on the UN Global Compact principles. We also do this within We only do business in Denmark.­ our supplier management, in which compli­Topdanmark follows and complies with ance with human rights is a central benchDanish legislation, which incorporates inmark. ternationally recognised human rights. This means that e.g. equality, inclusion, workers’ However, inspired by the United Nations rights, health and safety are integrated Guiding Principles on Business and Human into our values and policies. In addition, we Rights, we continuously monitor what hugenerally do not come across any challengman rights Topdanmark may find challenges from a legal perspective in this area in ing both in relation to the operation of our terms of Group operations. business and our products and advice – in addition to what is legally expected of us. > R EAD OUR POLICY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS 32 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Diversity and women in management Topdanmark wants to be a diverse workplace i.e. a workAt Topdanmark, the executive team must 21 place where diversity is accepted and used as a strength. be represented by the best-qualified candidates, but we also want a fair gender Therefore, as a company, we work to maintain and develop distribution. Typically, women will be un% women in openness in our company culture to counter any form of derrepresented which is not considered executive management. discrimination, and for all to have equal opportunities in to be desirable. At the same time, Topdanmark wants to motivate women to apply Our executive management Topdanmark. for the executive positions in which the includes the Executive Board imbalance is the greatest. of 4 persons, and the top For Topdanmark, diversity means that there Equal pay for equal work management team of 20 peris no difference in the conditions in employTopdanmark’s position on diversity and Topdanmark’s Board of Directors annually sons. ment based on age, ethnic background, genequal opportunities for all also applies in approves our policy for diversity and the der, sexual orientation, disability, health and relation to remuneration. It is our policy objectives in that respect. Likewise, the race. This also means that remuneration Board of Directors is annually informed that Topdanmark does depends solely on about the development in Topdanmark’s Plans for 2020 not discriminate on objective criteria gender distribution for executives. In 2020, we will focus even further on 41 this basis. such as experiour recruitment processes supporence, competence, Diversity on the Board of Directors ting our diversity policy and related Topdanmark wants to % effort, results Topdanmark wants a Board of Directors objectives. For example, we want to demonstrate and enwomen in management. and job content . consisting of the best-qualified candidates. ensure that vacancies are formulated courage internal tolTherefore, TopdThe Board comprises six AGM-elected memto appeal to everyone, regardless of erance allowing room Our goal: Both genders anmark is actively bers and three employee-elected members. gender. for exchange of views should be represented by at working to secure We have a goal of the Board of Directors and differences. Tolerleast 40% at all manageequal pay for equal having at least three of each gender (both In 2020, we will also investigate the ance should be based ment levels — on average. work. AGM-elected and employee-elected). In possibility of reporting on gender on respect for each 2019, this goal was achieved. equality in remuneration, i.e. define employee, whether a Goal for women in an indicator that shows a true picture colleague or superior. management Since 2014, Topdanmark has complied with of remuneration distributed between Tolerance and respect A particular focus the legislative definition of an even gender men and women. are basic values ensuring a good working area of the diversity policy is women in distribution on its Board of Directors. environment for all employees. management. 33 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Women in management: goals, activities and results 2019 Women on the Board of Directors: goals and results Goal Activities Results Evaluation Goal Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Both genders should Ongoing dialogue with 41 % The goal has been met At least three of each Number of women 3 2 2 2 be represented by at the Divisional and (2018: 40 %) gender in the Board of (AGM-elected) least 40% at all maService Area DirecDirectors (both AGMnagement levels — on tors on how we retain elected and employeeNumber of women 3 3 2 2 average. and develop female elected) (employee-elected) leadership talents Total number of women 6 5 4 4 Minimum 40% of Continued high at54 % women The goal has been met both genders in the tention to a balanced succession planning of gender distribution top management* in the food chain for positions in top manaThe percentage of women on Topdanmark’s Board of Directors gement. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Minimum one female Continued high attenti46% The goal has not been candidate for employon to ensure that both (2018: 53 %) achieved, which is pri67 % 56 % 44 % 44 % ment interviews for genders are represenmarily due to no femaposted managerial ted for employment le applicants, or that positions** interviews the female applicants have not been professionally qualified on the same level as the male applicants. * Succession planning is, among other things, to ensure a food chain of qualified and potential employees for level 1 > R EAD TOPDANMARK’S POLICY ON DIVERSITY AT BOARD (the executive board) and level 2 (managers reporting to the executive board). ** The figure shows the percentage of the total number of interviews for vacant management positions in which a female­ ­candidate was called for an interview. 34 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT We protect our customers’ personal data At Topdanmark, we want our customers to trust us, ­always. It is our responsibility to protect their personal data. It is our data security that generates customer trust. Therefore, we have processes and systems that ensure the highest level of data security. As an insurance company, we collect a large for data protection in addition to a policy on volume of customer information. This is how to handle personal data. Furthermore, also the case in regard to customers who Topdanmark has strict requirements to its have a claim on file. We use the information data security. exclusively for services and claims handling. Customers can always obtain access to the Data breaches information we have about them. Topdanmark continuously evaluates the processes for our data processing. Thus we We are aware of the risks have a high level of protection of personal Processing personal data implies various data. Topdanmark’s Compliance department risks which can be negative for the cuscontinuously controls that the processes Foto: Kalinovsky Dmitry tomers’ right to privacy such as the risk of are complied with, and that the employees data breach. A data breach can happen e.g. know how data breaches are detected. if Topdanmark sends information to the wrong customer or by other means, acciData breaches are reported to our Data dental leak of personal data. Protection Adviser as well as reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency in Topdanmark takes this risk very seriously, accordance with the rules on reporting of and therefore Topdanmark has implementdata breaches. ed a comprehensive management system 35 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Objectives and results for 2019 tion. Data breaches are evaluated continu• That the personal data is erased when cesses for data processing to ensure that It is Topdanmark’s objective to reduce the ously to update our processes and IT sysno longer relevant the employees know how to handle customnumber of data breaches to as close to zero tems to ensure that it will not happen again. • That the personal data is not accessed er information. as possible, and to avoid data breaches so by unauthorised persons severe that they must be reported to the How Topdanmark secures Topdanmark has processes for mapping and Danish Data Protection Agency. In 2019, the customers’ personal data Topdanmark only discloses customer inforrisk assessment of data processing. In adTopdanmark has reported 15 data breaches Topdanmark complies with the legislation mation related to management of insurancdition, Topdanmark carries out risk assessto the Danish Data Protection Agency. in force on processing of personal data, and es, primarily to collaboration partners and ments on external data processors which Topdanmark has implemented the generother insurance companies. Topdanmark are e.g. used in relation to claims handling. This is how Topdanmark acts in al data protection regulation (the GDPR). does not sell customer information. The Compliance department continuously the event of a data breach Topdanmark ensures that the data is stored control that the data processors comply In the event of a serious data breach, Topand processed in a manner that does not Policy and processes with Topdanmark’s security requirements. danmark notifies the aggrieved parties. challenge the customers’ right to privacy. Topdanmark’s Board of Directors has adoptWhen relevant, Topdanmark offers the agTopdanmark has IT systems that ensure: ed a policy on the overall requirements on Training of employees grieved parties its assistance in limiting the • That the personal data is up-to-date Topdanmark’s use of personal data. These All new employees must undergo e-learning implications of any misuse of the informa• That the personal data is not distorted requirements are integrated in all the prothat ensures knowledge and focus on the correct processing of personal data and GDPR. At regular intervals, current employees undergo a short e-learning course to Plans for 2020 ensure the continued focus on data protecTo achieve the goal of a reduction tion. In 2019, 280 employees participated in in the number of data breaches, the e-learning training. ­Topdanmark will, in 2020, implement a technology which automatically Activities in 2019 ensures that emails are always sent In 2019, Topdanmark optimised the GDPR with the best possible encryption. In processes. This is i.a. to ensure improved Foto: Kalinovsky Dmitry addition, more digital communication risk assessment and control of data proceswill be transferred to special secure sors, and to ensure that data security for communication channels. new digital initiatives is assessed early in the project phase. > R EAD MORE ABOUT TOPDANMARK’S POLICY ON INFORMATION SECURITY 36 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Artificial intelligence with responsibility The use of artificial intelligence is so advanced in our is important to consider ethical issues when The principles will be revised in line with ­society, however, it also presents ethical challenges that we develop and use artificial intelligence. Initiatives development in thein 2019 area, and and the intention plans for 2020 is to extend these principles to all our data need to be addressed on an ongoing basis. To ensure On this basis, at the end of 2018, we defined use.In 2019, a framework was set up with ­responsible use of artificial intelligence, we have defined five ethical principles on the use of artificial a number of operational issues docua set of principles. intelligence and how we can use it responmenting that the relevant people sibly. The principles have been approved by have adhered to the principles in the our Executive Board, and our Compliance development and use of artificial inIn Topdanmark, we want to make certain nection with effecting home warranty insurdepartment is responsible for the principles telligence. that we always give customers the best cusance. We also use it to assess if a damaged being observed in practice. tomer experience. That requires us to keep car is to be written off. The principles will be revised in line up with the digital development. Therefore, Initiatives in 2019 and plans for 2020 with development in the area, and the we use artificial intelligence to support the Topdanmark’s five ethical principles In 2019, a framework was set up with a intention is to extend these principles work performed by our employees in their Artificial intelligence renders the possibility number of operational issues documenting to all our data use. day-to-day duties. of using data in new ways and can be develthat the relevant people have adhered to oped for many purposes. There is no doubt the principles in the development and use At Topdanmark, we use artificial intellithat it will have a large impact on our daily of artificial intelligence. gence, for example, to assess risks in conlives in the future. Therefore, we believe it 37 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Climate – CO2 neutral in 2030 Topdanmark wants to support society’s efforts in limiting Topdanmarks impact on CO2-emission climate change. We support the Paris Agreement and thus support the Danish government’s target of a 70% CO2 reduction in 2030. Therefore, we have set the ambitious goal Indirect impact through of becoming CO2 neutral in 2030. purchased goods and Indirect impact through investments assets services Topdanmark’s Increase reuse and repair Towards 2030 20 % of As an insurance company, Topdanmark It is not necessarily going to be easy isolated CO2 after damage investment in ‘green’ emission feels the consequences of climate change The goal is set, but the road to achieving companies Dialoque with suppliers on in the form of more unpredictable and it has not yet been completely identified. Goal: CO2-reduction extreme weather, such as cloudbursts, However, we believe that it can be done. CO2-neutral in 2030 drought and more rain than usual. This has The project has four elements: an impact on our business, both as an increased risk and as a business opportunity, Scope 1 and 2: which is described on page 19. • CO2 emissions from operation of Indirect impact ­buildings through customers The goal is set • CO2 emissions from company driving Advice on climate When it comes to the operation of our in Topdanmark cars friendly initiatives business activities, including transport, we cause an annual CO2 emission of 7,082 Scope 3: Loss prevention tonnes of CO2 (2019). We see it as our ­social • CO2 emissions from company driving responsibility to actively work towards rein privately owned cars ducing CO2 emissions. Therefore, we have • CO2 emissions from air travel defined a new and ambitious goal of becoming CO2 neutral in 2030. 38 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT How to reach our goals Other sources to CO2 emissions Buildings: Initially, we will look into energy We know that we contribute indirectly to optimisation and behavioural changes, and CO2 emissions through several other activfinally we will look at the possibility of buyities, such as conduct, taxi rides, cloud sering CO2 neutral electricity. vices, suppliers and office procurement. In the coming years, we will also include these Business travel in Topdanmark cars: To areas based on an analysis of the activities begin with, we will change the car policy that cause the highest CO2 emissions. See and investigate how we can reduce compaour goal for investments on page 29. ny driving. Furthermore, we will look into the possibilities of creating an incentive to make it attractive to choose cars with low/ no CO2 emission. Business travel in privately owned cars: This concerns business travel for our salespeople and claims adjusters. This is the majority of our indirect CO2 emissions, but ” is unfortunately also the most difficult part to change, since we have little influence on the choice of cars. We will optimise the use of video conferencing, the use of drones With this initiative of becoming CO2 for valuation, and other initiatives to limit neutral, we want to show all our partdriving. Furthermore, we will establish a finers that we are taking global climate nancial incentive that makes it attractive to challenges seriously. We support the buy cars with low/no CO2 emission. Paris Agreement and the Government’s Climate Act. We are confident Air travel: We will take a closer look at how that the initiative will also serve as an we can change our transport policy and, for inspiration for ourselves and in the example, increase the use of trains, video development of our business when we conferences, and in the last resort CO2 comare to meet the customer needs of the pensation. future.” Peter Hermann, ­CEO 39 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Significant reduction of CO2 since 2012 Carbon footprint report 2016 2019 In the period 2012 to 2017, Topdanmark has Climate report already worked actively with energy opti2016 2017 2018 2019 Topdanmark reports to the CDP misation and CO2 reduction, primarily by (­Carbon Disclosure Project), an insetting up solar cells at our head office and Scope 1 1,741 1,669 1,449 1,383 ternational environment reporting the office in Viby. This has resulted in a reScope 2 1,355 1,317 2,391 2,322 initiative, which works for transpaduction of CO2 emissions of approx. 30%. rency and dialogue in relation to CO2 Scope 3 1,985 1,767 3,325 3,377 emissions and climate strategies in New and extended carbon footprint Total 5,081 4,753 7,165 7,082 businesses. The purpose is to make ­report this knowledge available to investors For 2019, a carbon footprint report has and other stakeholders. been prepared which includes air travel and consumption of heat and electricity at our smaller locations, which were not A report is awarded a score on the following Percentage of total CO2 emission included before. Therefore, our emissions scale: A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, D-. have increased significantly compared with previous years. In 2019, the average for all entries for CDP was a C. Natural gas Furthermore, a new report has been prepared for 2018, which also includes air 14% 11% Company travel in Topdanmark cars 2016 2017 2018 2019 travel and consumption from the small <1% 9% Power consumption locations. However, data for air travel is not Topdanmarks C C C C complete compared with 2019 data. ThereDistrict heating score fore, 2018 and 2019 figures are not fully 25% comparable. However, it can be concluded Air travel that there was only a slight reduction in 27% Company travel in privately owned cars CO2 emissions, which is primarily due to a 8% 6% Water and waste reduction in fuel consumption for company driving. Derived activities *T he consumption figures include use of the vehicles for personal purposes, as it is not possible to register this sepa> F URTHER DETAILS ON OUR CO 2 EMISSIONS rately. The split between driving for private purposes and business purposes is assessed to be approximately 50-50. > R EAD THE LATEST CDP REPORT AND DATA METHOD CAN BE FOUND IN OUR ESG REPORT 2019 40 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Environment is also Environmental efforts: overview of activities and results Goal 2021 Result 2018 Result 2019 Review of 2019 less plastic Reduction of ­disposable plastic 806,000 purchased units* 520,000 purchased units A reduction of 35% which is very ­satisfactory Topdanmark wants to contribute to a better environment through a responsible and sustainable operation *The number is higher than indicated in the CSR report 2018 as more units are included in the calculation. of our business. We see it as our task to organise offices and c­ anteens etc., so that it promotes both sustainable Christmas party. We have had a campaign Office furniture ­conduct among employees as well as sustainability in for use of water bottles rather than dispos104 pieces of office furniture was donated able cardboard cups. And we have started to recycling. ­processes, systems, etc. examining how to reduce the use of plastic disposable materials, such as plastic bags, IT equipment Topdanmark focuses on climate and the enWe have set a goal of reducing the use of when we attend trade fairs. 2,747 kg were sold for recycling or responvironment in connection with procurement disposable plastic — see the chart. sible scrap. for the operation of the business. For examOther environmental efforts ple, we aim to buy office supplies which are The goal is less plastic In addition, Topdanmark has numerous inlabelled with the Nordic Ecolabel (cleaning Since 2018, it has been our goal to reduce itiatives that it measures and continuously agents, paper and printed matter), FSC (pathe use of plastic disposable materials. This evaluates. This includes waste separation, Dilemma per and wood), EU Ecolabel (paper and tonalso applies to our staff canteen, which is reduction in food waste and paper consumper) or are organic. We prefer to enter into operated by Eurest. In 2019, we have retion, and recycling of office furniture and IT agreements with suppliers that prioritise moved all plastic mugs and plastic buckets. equipment. Below are the results for 2019: climate and environmental considerations. However, plastic mugs were used for our Waste When Topdanmark replaces 44% of all waste were recycled office furniture, we want to 47% of all waste from the head office in ­donate the usable furniture Ballerup were recycled to schools or organisations, so that the furniture does not Paper consumption go to waste. But often we find 16.6% reduction of purchased paper and it difficult to find takers for paper products compared with 2018 the furniture, or it is so time 77% reduction of purchased paper and consuming that we refrain ­paper products compared with 2015 from doing it. 41 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Topdanmark wants to be part of a professional, non-life insurance companies tend to be fasociety in general from money laundering orderly and trustworthy business environment. We voured channels through which illicit money and financing of terrorism. We meet the reis laundered. quirements of the Danish Anti-Money Laun­therefore do not tolerate corruption and bribery. dering Act, which means, for example, that The risk of money laundering and financing e-learning is compulsory. It is our assessment that the biggest risk may give and receive gifts and when they of terrorism is more significant in Topdanof corruption and bribery is related to are allowed to hold or participate in events mark Livsforsikring than in the Topdanmark presents and entertainment in relation to and arrangements. non-life insurance business. However, gencustomers, suppliers and other business erally the risk is low. partners. However, we also assess the risk The purpose of the policy is, among oth> R EAD MORE ABOUT MONEY LAUNDERING to be generally low. er things, to prevent and avoid business Topdanmark works proactively to protect PREVENTION decisions being influenced by personal or both our customers, our company and We are confident that our employees use non-business-related considerations and their common sense and good judgment interests. when it comes to gifts and entertainment in relation to customers, suppliers and other Results for 2019 partners. In 2019, we continued to work with preventing and avoiding making business decisions To support this, we have drawn up a policy that were influenced by individual interests. which states when Topdanmark’s employees In 2019, there have been no situations that have been in conflict with our anti-corruption policy. Foto: Kalinovsky Dmitry Plans for 2020 Money laundering and financing In 2020, we will evaluate whether the of terrorism risk picture has changed and whether The world economy is affected by money an update of our current policy and that is illegally acquired and used for illegitthe management system associated imate purposes. Large amounts of money with the policy is needed. are laundered every year, posing a threat to the global economy and its security. The financial service companies as life and 42 R E S P O NS I B L E B US I N E S S M A N AG E M E NT CSR programme for suppliers We would like to be known as a professional and receive a CSR reference as an annex to the performed, and we entered into dialogue ­responsible company. Irresponsible conduct in the supply contract. This specifies that Topdanmark is with the respective supplier concerning affiliated with the UN Global Compact. We working conditions and human rights. The chain, for example non-compliance with the principles of encourage the respective companies to inCSR recommendation concerning the UN UN Global Compact, is not only incompatible with our tegrate the principles in their own business, Global Compact principles has also been CSR policy, but it can also damage our reputation and but this is not a legally binding condition. written in as a legally binding part of the contract. consequently our revenue. In order to counter this risk, Areas that are monitored more closely we have established a CSR programme for suppliers. However, there are areas that may potenIn Lithuania, no conditions were identified tially be problematic, such as the handling that were in breach of our CSR policy and Due diligence ness model and conduct that are not in conof waste and working conditions in conjuncthe UN Global Compact principles. In India, On an ongoing basis, Topdanmark assesses flict with the UN Global Compact principles. tion with clearing up after damage has ocwe are aware of matters concerning human the suppliers we use in relation to CSR. We curred. We are monitoring these areas. rights, for example the right to a collective primarily use Danish suppliers, and the genOn this basis, we have implemented a proagreement, and we are in dialogue with eral assessment is that they have a busigramme that involves that all suppliers In connection with this, a risk analysis was Cognizant on this subject. Results for 2019 and plans for 2020 It is our assessment that in 2019 there were no conditions that were contrary to our policy with the exception of conditions in India, as described above. In 2020, implementation of the CSR programme will continue. Furthermore, we will look at how, in procurement, we can work with our suppliers Foto: Kalinovsky Dmitry to reduce CO2 emissions. 43 44 R E S P O NS I B L E CO R P O R ATE CU LT U R E Responsible corporate culture Topdanmark wants to provide a bolder workplace, a healthier working life and a fun working day. We want to provide a working community which is accommodating for all types of person. A workplace at which you can be yourself. It is Topdanmark’s ambition to provide the The foundation is close dialogue best customer service in all situations. A close dialogue between the Executive Competent and motivated employees are a Board and the employees is important to critical factor in this respect. Therefore, it us, among other things through a Cooperis crucial to attract and retain competent ation Committee with employee representmanpower as lack of skilled manpower posatives. The committee’s task is to take on es a real business risk for Topdanmark. and discuss organisational issues and find solutions to these problems. Furthermore, Topdanmark has formulated an ambition we have a competence committee that that it will provide a bolder workplace, a specifically considers training and develophealthier working life and a fun working ment, as well as a job satisfaction commitday. We want to provide a working commutee discussing job satisfaction, well-being nity which is accommodating for all types and health. of person. A workplace at which you can be yourself. Well-being and commitment are central elements of Topdanmark’s business strategy, and in the seven strategy corridors in the corridor named Commitment and Leadership see page 44. 45 Well-being and commitment To reach our goal of high customer satisfaction and to attract and retain manpower, Topdanmark considers it cruBased on the yearly well-being dialogue, the The objective of the analysis is to identify directors for each division and service area which activities are critical in increasing cial to have an organisation of employees and managers must prepare a report for the executive well-being and in preventing stress. who thrive and are highly motivated and committed. board on the well-being and the required activities to be initiated in the coming year. Topdanmark wants to ensure that all Topdanmark, like most workplaces these Well-being dialogues employees thrive and are not subject to days, is characterised by changes, new Topdanmark wants managers and employMeasuring Group well-being bullying and/or offensive situations. In processes and IT systems and at times in a ees to continuously have a good dialogue DTopdanmark also conducts an annual 2020/2021, Topdanmark will implement a quicken pace. However, attention is given to on the problems that may occur. Therefore, group survey with two to three questions code of conduct which will include princithe fact that it can cause stress, decreased we have locally implemented well-being diaon well-being and commitment, which are ples on diversity, tolerance, and mutual rejob-satisfaction and well-being, as well as logues which should support the continuous only measured at a general level in the orspect as central elements in Topdanmark’s lack of motivation among the employees. work on well-being, commitment and motiganisation. It was first conducted in 2019. company culture. Topdanmark wants to take care of this and vation. The well-being dialogue is a survey The result was 76 points out of 100, which a large number of initiatives have been initisent out by the individual manager twice is very satisfactory. The goal for 2020 is an ated, among other things. a year followed by dialogues and follow-up increase of 2pp. meetings in the individual departments. Plans for 2020 In 2020, there will be an increased focus on well-being and commitment. A comprehensive analysis will be prepared of all data available on well-being, including results from the well-being surveys, anonymised data from health checks and results from workplace assessments. Furthermore, focus groups will be included to evaluate the physical workstations. 46 R E S P O NS I B L E CO R P O R ATE CU LT U R E Health in everyday life Topdanmark wants to give its full support to our employees’ good health. We believe that this will contribute towards generating well-being and job satisfaction for the individual employee. This in turn provides a strong platform from which we can deliver the best service to our customers. With a health policy, Topdanmark wants to create a healthy framework for the workplace. In practice, the employees are offered a range of health-related initiatives, which can be used when wanted or required – including offers for cycling activities, healthy food in the staff canteen and a health check. Topdanmark has a sports association which hours every second year. It focuses on offers facilities and committed instructors mental, social and physical health, both at for a number of activities that the employand outside the workplace. Furthermore, all ees can join before or after work. employees can receive anonymous stress counselling from experienced psychologists. Stress prevention The number of people on sick leave due to In the event of severe and long-term stress, stress in Danish society is generally increaswe can offer a personalised course of treating. We also see this tendency among our ment as part of the employee’s health inown employees. Therefore, we have a numsurance scheme. ber of initiatives to both prevent incipient stress and to take care of the employees Health screening affected by stress. All Topdanmark employees are offered a health check during working hours every As part of the prevention of stress and second year. In 2019, the offer was expandother illnesses, all Topdanmark employees ed to also include the option of an online are offered a health check during working health screening – either as stand-alone or 47 R E S P O NS I B L E CO R P O R ATE CU LT U R E in combination with Massage scheme 27 an overall health In 2018, Topdanmark check. The health established a masscreening is done by sage scheme for all answering numerous employees participated in employees to focus questions based on a My Health programme even more on prevenlifestyle factors (diet, tion of disabilities, smoking, alcohol, exsuch as pains in the ercise), after which neck and arms, and you get an individual on promoting menhealth report that indicates which areas to tal well-being. The scheme is financed as pay attention to. a gross salary agreement. The employee thus saves 45% of the price. In 2019, 399 In total, 368 employees took the health employees joined the scheme (2017: 377 screening, and 820 employees took both employees). the initial health screening and the following health check. Work-life balance Topdanmark attaches great importance to its employees having a good work-life balREAD MORE ABOUT THE DIGITAL HEALTH ance. In different phases of life, the needs sence due to illness, because we consider it not available at the time when this report was SCREENING UNDER THE CONCEPT, TOPSUND may vary, and Topdanmark aims to support to be an indicator of both the physical and completed – the industry figure for 2018 was ON PAGE 50. the need of flexibility of the individual emmental well-being of our employees. 3.1%. ployee in the form of flexible working hours, My Health – individual health programme pregnancy leave/parental leave/maternity As regards absence due to illness, TopdanDuring the period from 2015 to 2019, the abSince 2016, employees who are at risk of leave, part-time work, freedom when the mark’s goal is that it should be below the figsence due to illness percentage was either just getting lifestyle diseases have been offered child is ill, and leave to care for a critically ure for the entire insurance industry as calcuover or just under the industry level. In 2019, an individual health programme, My Health. ill child, a terminally ill person at home or to lated by Finanssektorens Arbejdsgiverforening the percentage was significantly under the inA programme was made available to 30 care for a next of kin (the Danish Employers’ dustry level of 2018 which is very satisfactory. employees against a small fee – each prowith a handicap or Association for the FiTopdanmark sees this as an indication that its 399 gramme had a duration of 3-4 months. The critical illness. nancial Sector). focus on health and prevention contributes to programmes have provided unique results the physical well-being of the employees. within long-term and sustainable lifestyle Focus on absence In 2019, the percentage changes. In 2019, 27 employees participated due to illness employees joined the for absence due to SEE THE STATISTICS FOR ABSENCE DUE TO in a My Health programme. among employees massage scheme illness was 2.7% (2018: ILLNESS THE LAST FOUR YEARS ON PAGE 49. We keep an eye on 3.0%). The industry our employees’ abfigure for 2019 was 48 R E S P O NS I B L E CO R P O R ATE CU LT U R E The competencies of the future Targeted competence development for the individual HR key ratios employee is important so that everyone can contribute Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 towards carrying out the tasks in the organisation in the short and long term. Therefore, we have a comprehensive Full-time employees Number 2,650 2,473 2,343 2,318 training and development programme consisting of interEmployees in flexible jobs 1 Number 14 13 11 10 nal and external processes within the many occupational Employees on temporary contracts 2 % – 1.7 2.3 1.9 groups represented in the organisation. Employees covered by collective agreement % – 96.9 97.2 96.5 Absence due to illness 3 % 2.9 3.0 3.0 2.7 In 2019, Topdanmark entered into a collabIn 2019, employee turnover was 13.9%, of oration with the Copenhagen Institute for which 6.2% was involuntary. The industry Absence due to illness in the finance % 3.0 2.9 3.1 – Future Studies which should help us clarify figures for 2019 had not been calculated at industry 4 future needs and continuously ensure dethe end of this report, but the industry figEmployee turnover 5 % 13.1 14.3 14.0 13.9 velopment and dialogue with the employees ures for 2018 were 13.3%. regarding these. At the same time, TopdanEmployee turnover in the finance industry 4 % 12.0 12.0 13.3 – mark wants to use large development proTopdanmark does not consider an employee Cases of discrimination 6 Number 0 0 0 0 jects to ensure that employees with great turnover at that level to pose a business potential are challenged and at the same challenge. Any termination of a contract, Competence development of employees 7 Million 32.4 28.5 27.0 33.1 time developed so to obtain the competenwhether it is termination or dismissal, is cies of the future. used as an opportunity to review compeThe employee numbers do not include hourly-paid employees, such as student assistants. tence requirements and profile, so that the 1) F  lexible jobs are offered primarily to internal employees who need other duties than those they have had previously. In Employee turnover position matches Topdanmark’s current 2019, all employees in flexible jobs are internal employees. SAs a consequence of Topdanmark’s focus needs. 2) The numbers cover employees who are bound by a specific resignation date (excl. trainees and maternity cover) 3) T  his figure indicates that, on average, every employee was sick 2.7% of the total number of working hours in 2019. The figon streamlining, automation and outsourcure covers all employees. ing, employee turnover has been above the In 2020, we expect an employee turnover at 4) The industry figure for 2019 was not available when this report was completed. 5) The figure covers employees who left the company voluntarily, were dismissed, retired or left the company for another reaindustry average for a number of years. the same level as in 2019. son. The number also includes terminated temps. This is also due to generally higher mobility 6) Cases of discrimination refers to cases which have been reported to HR or brought to an employee organisation. on the Danish labour market. 7) The amount does not include payroll costs, but solely payment of external training activities. 49 50 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y Responsibility and society Topdanmark contributes to the overall welfare and finanOur efforts make a difference It is the company’s opinion that the many cial security of both our customers and society by running Topdanmark continuously evaluates our efforts contribute positively to society, different processes and methods – both the partly because we contribute to reducing a stable business with high quality insurance products. ones targeted at prevention, and those aimhealthcare costs, and partly because we Especially, our health and prevention efforts are making a ing at limiting the impact of an illness or incontribute to creating health and well-bepositive contribution to society. We extend our health efjury. The evaluations show that the efforts ing. The efforts also contribute to lowering do make a difference. the sickness absence in the businesses, forts by working with a number of humanitarian organisawhich gives stability and is beneficial for sotions. In addition, we believe that we contribute to society Many efforts can come into play in relation ciety and the individual employees. as a responsible employer and through tax payments. to loss of earnings capacity insurance, health insurance, workers’ compensation Topdanmark services a number of small and and liability insurance. medium-sized corporate customers which Prevention contributes to society Some of the most severe injuries involve do not have an actual HR department that Topdanmark proactively works with health the risk of losing part or all earnings caSocial perspective can initiate health-care initiatives for the and prevention of illnesses and injuries of pacity, and thus contact with the labour On account of the many businesses that employees. In this, their coordination of our customers. After an injury, we help the market. In the last resort, this can lead to a have insurance with Topdanmark, the comcounselling and efforts can be a great help. injured party return to daily life and worklife on disability pension. Therefore, prevenpany helps to prevent and promote healthy ing life. Topdanmark is leading within this tion and promotion of physical and mental living for many people across different Examples field among life insurance companies, and health is a central part of Topdanmark’s business and age groups. Topdanmark also On the following pages, we describe three the efforts make a positive contribution to business. We also have initiatives to help helps many people return to working life afspecific initiatives that have made a posisociety. customers back to a normal day and workter an injury or serious illness. In 2018 and tive contribution each in its own way: ing life after an injury. 2019, we helped approx. 1,050 customers • More health for the many Illness and injuries often have far greater each year with stress-related conditions. • Help after a serious injury consequences than just the financial ones. • Initiatives against increasing stress This applies to both the individual customer, to Topdanmark and to society in general. 51 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y More health to the many Topdanmark wants to help our customers get or maintain an individual report with advice and guidprogramme. In 2019, 4,400 employees from a healthy life mentally as well as physically. Therefore, ance for improving their health. It is possi12 companies have completed a programme ble to contact the relevant health staff for with different initiatives depending on the we make active contributions to prevent illnesses and further guidance. company’s need. work-related injuries at companies that have secured their employees with, for example, health insurance with us. In In cooperation with Topdanmark, it is posThe concept ensures better health sible to plan relevant health initiatives so The evaluation of the programmes shows doing so, we come into contact with and help many people. that they reflect the actual health-related that the TopSund concept contributed challenges faced by the company. positively towards prevention and health Through our life insurance company, we With many of these companies, we have in the respective companies and with their work actively to create physical and mental also initiated specific health initiatives such Based on lifestyle factors (Diet, smoking, employees. well-being for employees in companies that as e.g. TopSund programmes (read more alcohol and exercise) have taken out insurance with us. below), exercise at the workplace, stress The actual digital screening questionnaire The anonymised screening reports have, for courses and diet is scientific and evidence-based, and it has example, provided the companies with the We have a range of programmes. We questions pertaining to well-being, working opportunity to discover challenges faced prevention concepts In 2019 have generally conditions, social well-being, mental health, by their employees of which they were which can be tailored to the challenges of the individual compa4,400 employees from 12 companies have comreceived positive feedback companies from the on the sleep and lifestyle factors such as diet, smoking, alcohol and exercise. unaware and which were relatively easy to change. ny, so that the preventive effort is as relevant as possible. pleted a programme with different initiatives counselling initiatives provided. and we have In cooperation with Topdanmark, it is possible to plan relevant health initiatives so that they reflect the actual health-related Case For example, a company with We can offer, for exchallenges faced by the company. The coma large number of overweight ample, health checks TopSund is targeted prevention pany will have the opportunity to measure employees found that they and health screenings via personal consulOne of the specific initiatives we are workthe effect of the initiative via a follow-up were all under the age of 30 tations with a medical professional. ing on is TopSund. With TopSund, the indiscreening. and felt socially isolated. With vidual employee completes an online health this knowledge, a joint team Health Counselling in 2019 screening. It is the first step in a comprewas established under the In 2019, we have been in dialogue with a tohensive prevention initiative aimed at the TopSund programmes in 2018 and 2019 themes of exercise, healthy tal of 124 companies on how to promote the employee and the company as a whole. The TopSund concept was launched in 2018, cooking and communal dining. health and well-being of their employees. Each employee receives a health score and and 1,250 employees completed a TopSund 52 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y Help after a severe injury When customers are affected by serious illness or are seCollaboration with leading specialists Collaboration on concussions riously injured, we use the concept TopOmsorg®, which is Topdanmark itself has employed a number A significant increase in the number of of social workers and health professionhead and neck injuries, for example caused an individually designed programme focusing on the indials, who are used for the individual proby traffic accidents, was the starting point vidual’s situation and needs. Since 2012, we have helped grammes. Furthermore, we employ specialof a collaboration with neuro-psychologists many seriously injured customers, about half of whom ists for specific disease areas. from Hans Knudsen Instituttet (HKI). The solution has been fruitful – many customers have returned to full-time employment. Since 2014, we have successfully worked have benefited greatly from the help. with KiaPro on the rehabilitation of people With TopOmsorg®, the injured person gets Positive results who have been seriously injured primarily The programme consists of five counselling affiliated with a social worker who helps TopOmsorg® is especially used for serious work-related accidents covered by workers’ sessions with a neuro-psychologist over a navigate between the many parties involved and long-term illnesses, which are covered compensation insurance or liability insurperiod of ten weeks. Each programme is and also helps to plan the optimal proby the loss of earnings capacity insurance. ance. An individual programme is planned, individually customised and, among other gramme of treatment. The assistance can Our experience with the programme is very which may include e.g. counselling from sothings, is aimed at providing the customer also consist of dialogue with the workplace positive. In 2019, we have used Joblinjen to cial workers, physiotherapists, psychologists with better insight into their own situation and ultimately help in finding a new job. We take care of the individual processes. The or pain doctors. The programme is always and their own resources. offer help where we find that help is lackresults from this are satisfactory: approved by the injured party’s counsellor, ing. • Of the referred persons, 54% were off e.g. lawyer or trade union. Positive experience the sick list immediately after the proIn 2018, 53 customers were referred to HKI, Contributes to municipal efforts gramme was completed In 2019, 45% of those injured in rehabilitaand 47% of them were back working full We also cooperate with the local job cen• Of these, 75% returned to work 83% tion returned to full-time employment. time immediately after the programme. In tres, so that the sick person gets a holistic full time 2019, 48 customers were referred and 46% programme. There may be situations in were back working full time. which the municipalities do not have the opportunity to make the necessary efforts. We emphasise the importance of starting the efforts as early as possible as this helps to maintain the connection to the labour market. 53 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y Initiatives against stress Approx. 4-5% of Danes each year suffer from severe stress requiring treatment. In addition, tens of thousands of sick people are reported to have difficulties returning to work. It has far-reaching consequences, both in private life, in working life and socio-economically. Therefore, Topdanmark would like to contribute to both preventing and curing stress. Stress seems to be an increasing phenomenon. The latest figures from the National Initiatives when the damage is done Board of Health show that the proportion Although our preventive efforts appear to of Danes with a high level of stress has have a positive effect, some of our customincreased from 20.8% in 2010 to 25.1% in ers are still affected by severe stress and 2017 an increase of 20.6%. at the risk of losing their ability to work. In these situations, we want to help customers On the other hand, among our customers, get back on their feet. we have seen an opposite trend. There has been a decrease in the number of stress-reWe offer both TopOmsorg®, i.e. individually lated notifications for our health insurance planned programmes as described on page from 5.1% in 2010 to 3.8% in 2017 a de51, and an Open and Calm (Åben og Rolig) crease of 26.7%. course, which is classroom training read more on the next pages. Both have proved We attribute the decline in reported stress to produce good results for the benefit of claims to our proactive efforts in the comour customers, the community and Topdanpanies that are our customers, which is mark described on page 53. Customers get a telephone line they can contact at the first symptoms of stress. It is a satisfactory development. 54 A NSVA R LI G H E D I SA M F U N D From stress and back to work ration aimed at remedying stress with the • The proportion of participants who pression after the course. A survey we have conducted in 2019 shows Center for Psykisk Sundhedsfremme (Cenwere on sick leave from unemployment that the individual initiatives in collaboratre for the Promotion of Mental Health), a (i.e. unemployed and unable to look for We hope the industry will use the method tion with a social worker who, for example, part of the University of Copenhagen. The work) dropped significantly from 13% Insurance companies play an increasing helps coordinate the meetings, seem to programme Open and Calm, is a scientificalto 0%. All of them had either found role in Danes’ access to help when things go help the severely stressed. ly developed and documented programme employment or were unemployed, but wrong for example, stress. Therefore, it is for stress reduction. had started searching for a job. important that companies’ expenses for menOut of just under 1,000 people suffering tal health claims are spent in the best way from stress, 33% returned to full-time emIn the period 2017 to 2019, a total of 62 peoImproved quality of life possible. ployment after three months, while 80% ple aged 22-64 participated in a nine-week Participants also expressed that they have returned to full-time employment after two course, and subsequently researchers from improved physical and mental work ability We are pleased that Open and Calm courses years. In comparison, only 20% of those the University of Copenhagen were able to and that their quality of life has improved. It have proven to provide good results. It is who had not been through a TopOmsorg® document significant results: is especially important that the number of important that all parties involved, including programme returned to full-time employ• After the course, 51% of the participeople with significant signs of depression employers, public authorities and pension ment after three months, and only 68% pants were back in full-time employhave dropped dramatically. companies, take good care of the person sufafter two years. ment, while only 37% were in full-time fering from stress early in the process so that employment before the start of the Before the Open and Calm course, almost the person can return to normal life. Open and Calm courses bring back quality course half (43%) showed signs of severe or modof life • The proportion of participants who were erate depression, but after the course no Facts about Open and Calm At the end of 2017, Topdanmark, as the first on sick leave from work, more than participants showed this at all. A full 91% Open and Calm is an evidence-based alterprivate company, entered into a collabohalved from 20% to 8% after the course of participants showed no symptoms of denative to conventional stress treatments involving individual talk therapy with a psychologist. Open and Calm is group therapy which takes in physical, mental and social parameters, based on the most well-validated model for promotion of health. The development of Open and Calm began in 2009, and since 2014 the programme has been implemented by a number of Denmark’s largest local authorities. The method has had positive effects on stress and depression levels, sleep quality and mental health in general. 55 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y Co-operation with humanitarian organisations As a non-life and life insurance company, we help many themselves, while Topdanmark pays for the customers every year when they become ill or suffer an calories burned through cycling, dancing, running, etc. injury. We also want to help more broadly in society when people are in difficult situations. That is why we collaborate with three organisations, Knæk Cancer, Doctors WithOur pension customers were also invited to participate in the event, and here we paid both the participation fee and the calories DKK 439,600 Was donated to out Borders and the Blood Bank, each of which in their burned. 138 pension customers attended in Doctors Without Borders own way contributes to people in need or seriously ill per2019, some of which donated funds to the sons. And we do this in partnership with our employees. campaign. Blood gives new life Relief aid across borders Every day, the Danish hospitals rely heavily Exercise for the Knæk Cancer (cancer Through our preventive and health prodon donor blood to treat patients. As a blood fundraising) campaign ucts, Topdanmark helps many people in donor, you help ensure the necessary blood Every day we talk to customers who are Denmark every year. However, we also want supply and thus make a huge difference to 815 affected by serious illness, including cancer. to contribute towards saving lives and immany people. We would like to contribute to We want to contribute to research on how proving health in areas where relief aid is this effort cancer can both be prevented and cured. That employees needed. is why we, in 2019, participated for the sixth Participated in this year’s We have therefore been cooperating with Since 2005, the employees at Topdantime in the Knæk Cancer Campaign for the Knæk Cancer campaign Doctors Without Borders since 1996. Emmark’s main office have been able to donate Danish Cancer Society. This was done through ployees pay a voluntary contribution, and blood to the blood bank during working 357,400 a week-long exercise event, which engaged Topdanmark pays a corresponding amount. hours. Topdanmark is among the companies both our employees and pension customers We have selected Doctors Without Borders that have donated more blood per number through, among other things, cycling, dancing, DKK because we trust that our contribution will of visits by the blood bank. It is an activity running, walking and yoga. Was donated for the be used responsibly. that our employees are very involved in, Knæk Cancer campaign and they are happy that their workplace is Through the campaign, we were given the DKK 251,200 thousand was donated to offering this option. opportunity to focus on several issues that are Doctors Without Borders in connection with central to our business: health, exercise and Money for calories a Christmas present for the employees in In 2019, 388 batches of blood were collectprevention. And at the same time, we could The amount collected is primarily due to 2019. ed from Topdanmark employees. contribute to an important healthcare project the participation fee paid by the employees 56 R E S P O NS I B I LIT Y A N D S O CI E T Y Tax contributions are also social contributions By operating a profitable business, Topdanmark conTopdanmark Group – taxes and duties 2018 (DKKm) tributes significant annual amounts to the Danish state Topdanmark cost Topdanmark as tax collector through direct corporate taxes and indirect taxes. Direct taxes Income tax 882 More than 99% of our income is taxed in in the international market. In this way, Corporation tax 441 Labour-market contribution 389 Denmark which, taking the organisation’s Topdanmark, relatively speaking, pays more size into account, is unusual since other big to the Danish state than many other big 1,271 Danish companies pay a large part of their companies. corporate tax abroad due to the activities Selected indirect taxes: Pension return 1,094 Liability duty 313 Statistic: Topdanmark’s payment of direct tax Indirect taxes Property tax 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Payroll tax 256 Flood 50 Corporate tax (DKKm) 407 502 371 441 Government tax 159 Income tax (DKKm) 904 897 995 882 VAT 20 Non-life insurance duty 82 1,749 Total DKKm 697 Total DKKm 3,020 57 CSR initiatives: strategic corridors, UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals Section in the report Strategic corridor UN Global Compact UN Sustainable Development Goals Page Customer relations We have a big responsibility Long-term customer relations The right to social security; The right to healthcare – 12 Customer complaints are used constructively Long-term customer relations The right to a fair complaint process – 17 Products and Services Sustainability in claims handling Long-term customer relations – Goal 12: responsible consumption and production 20 Prevention of damage caused by cloudbursts Long-term customer relations – Goal 13: Climate action 21 Increased contingency arrangements in case Long-term customer relations – – 22 of extreme weather Helping farmers in the wake of climate change Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk – Goal 13: Climate action 23 management Prevention of slurry spillage Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk – Goal 14: Life below water 24 management Fewer chemicals in the field Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk – Goal 14: Life below water 25 management Investments Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk All principles Will be defined in 2020 27 management Business management Diversity and women in management Commitment and leadership The right to non-discrimination Goal 5: Gender equality 33 We protect personal data Long-term customer relations The right to data security and privacy – 35 Artificial intelligence with responsibility Long-term customer relations ; future technoThe right to data security and privacy – 37 logy, the best in terms of execution > CONTINUES ON THE NEXT PAGE 58 CSR initiatives: strategic corridors, UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals Section in the report Strategic corridor UN Global Compact UN Sustainable Development Goals Page Business management Climate – CO2 neutral Topdanmark Principles 7, 8 and 9 Goal 13: Climate action 38 Environment is also less plastic Principles 7, 8 and 9 Goal 12: responsible consumption and production 41 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Principle 10 Goal 8: decent work and economic growth 42 Corporate culture Well-being and commitment Commitment and leadership The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 46 Goal 8: decent work and economic growth Health in everyday life Commitment and leadership The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 47 Goal 8: decent work and economic growth The competencies of the future Commitment and leadership Goal 8: decent work and economic growth 49 Society More health to the many Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 52 management Help after a severe injury Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 53 management Initiatives against stress Long-term customer relations; Expert in risk The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 54 management Co-operation with humanitarian organisations Commitment and leadership The right to physical and mental health Goal 3: good health and well-being 56 Tax contributions are also social contributions – Goal 8: decent work and economic growth 57 59 Contact If you have any questions or comments concerning the report, please contact Pernille Fogh Christensen, who is responsible for CSR. If you want to enter into dialogue with us about our CSR efforts, you are also welcome to contact us. Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) E-mail: pfi@topdanmark.dk Topdanmark A/S Borupvang 4 2750 Ballerup Tel. +45 44 68 33 11 CVR-no. 78416114 60
