INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Management Principles The Shinsei Bank Group has established the following Management Principles and is working on a day-by-day basis toward their attainment. To become a banking group that is sought out by customers, and contributes to the development of both domestic and international industrial economies, while maintaining stable profitability. To become a banking group that values diverse talents and cultures and is constantly taking on new challenges presented by change, based on its experiences and history. To become a banking group that strives for highly transparent management and values that is trusted by all stakeholders including customers, investors, and employees. Editorial Policy Here in this Integrated Report, the Shinsei Bank Group brings together financial and nonfinancial information in a bid to help investors and other stakeholders gain an understanding of the Group’s strategies and efforts toward creating sustainable corporate value. Having referred during the editing process to the frameworks presented by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)1 and the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation2 indicated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, we show the “big picture” narrative of the Shinsei Bank Group’s corporate value creation. In addition, this Report and the Shinsei Bank Integrated Report 2020 Data Appendix fulfill the disclosure requirements (an explanation of the Shinsei Bank’s operations and matters regarding its financial position) stipulated under Article 21 of Japan’s Banking Act. The Report also contains statements about the Group’s management policies and future operating results. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ from those indicated due to a variety of factors, including changes in the operating environment. Please see Shinsei Bank’s Integrated Report 2020 Data Appendix for supplemental financial information. Notes: 1 E  stablished in 2010 for the purpose of developing an international framework for the disclosure of corporate information, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the accounting professions and NGOs. 2A manual for systematically organizing and integrating the information (management principles, business model, strategy, governance, etc.) that companies should convey to investors. Created and published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the purpose of enhancing the quality of information disclosure and dialogue with investors. Redesigning Finance About the Shinsei Bank Group The Shinsei Bank Group is working to promote the Medium-Term Management Strategy, “Redesigning Finance” that started in fiscal 2019, both inside and outside the Group. Creating a Positive Impact on Society Design Concept The font color, which has an alternating blue and gray design concept, expresses the value co-creation business model that brings together services of not only the Shinsei Bank Group but also other companies. The object in human form in the center of the word “finance” symbolizes our stance connecting people with finance to provide valuable new financial services. Our Innovation Stories Initiatives and External Recognition Participation in United Nations Global Compact Principles for Financial Action for Women’s Empowerment Principles Initiatives the 21st Century (WEPs) 30% Club Japan Equator Principles Strong Flexible Support Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ESG Index MSCI THE INCLUSION OF SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED IN ANY Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Awards and Accreditation Kurumin Companies with Best Continual Gan Ally Award Efforts in IR Data Section SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 1 About the Shinsei Bank Group Contents 4 20 About the Shinsei Bank Group Our Innovation Stories 4 Evolution of the Shinsei Bank Group 20 Medium-Term Management Strategy 6 Group Business Profile Review of the Past Medium-Term Management Plan Mediumto Long-Term Changes in the Global 7 The Shinsei Bank Group’s Products and Environment Services Materiality 8 Financial Highlights Medium-Term Strategies and Business Model 9 Nonfinancial Highlights Core Strategies and Business Strategies Nonfinancial KPIs and Financial KPIs 10 At a Glance Medium-Term Strategies Business Group Business Strategy Small-Scale Finance Strategy Business Strategies for Institutional Investors 12 Productivity Reforms Medium-Term Strategies Finance Message from Chief Officer of Group Finance Creating a Positive Impact on Society Investors’ FAQ 12 Corporate Value Creation Mechanism 34 Implementing Digital Strategies 14 CEO Message The Future of Finance and IT—— Row out on the Ocean Under the  The Shinsei Bank Group’s Challenge Name of “New Normal” with a Ship D  igital Personnel Strategy and Called “Redesigning Finance” Security 38 Individual Business 41 Institutional Business 2 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 64 Initiatives for Global Environmental Issues 44 About the Shinsei Bank Group through Our Core Businesses 68 Initiatives for Employees Strong Flexible Support 71 Initiatives for Customers 44  Interview with Outside Director 72 Social Initiatives ~About the Nomination and 73 For Shareholders and Investors Compensation Committee 46 Corporate Governance Four Features of Shinsei Bank’s Corporate Governance 74 Creating a Positive Impact on Society Corporate Governance of Shinsei Bank 48 Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Data Section 54 Corporate Governance 74 ESG Data Policy for Operation of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluations 76 Financial Summary Directors and Executive Officers Compensation 78 Review of Fiscal 2019 Scheme Audit & Supervisory Board Members/Audit & 80 Glossary Supervisory Board 82 Financial Statements (Consolidated) Our Innovation Stories Chief Officers/Senior Officers and Executive Officers 84 Stock and Credit Rating Information Internal Control Internal Audit Legal and Compliance Activities 62 Risk Governance 63 Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Strong Flexible Support Data Section SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 3 About the Shinsei Bank Group Evolution of the Shinsei Bank Group Since its launch as the Shinsei Bank, Limited in 2000, the Group has continued to expand its customer base and stabilize income while acquiring new financial functions through acquisitions including APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd., Showa Leasing Co., Ltd., and Shinsei Financial Co., Ltd. Shinsei Bank Launched  irst Medium-Term F Management Plan EPS (yen) (FY2010~2012) 1,000 750 500 Allocated reserves in con250 nection with its Consumer Finance business 0 Posted impairment losses and allocated Posted impairment losses and reserves in order to address dramatic Posted impairment losses allocated reserves in connection changes in statutory and regulatory and allocated reserves in with its Consumer Finance busirequirements as well as operating conconnection with its overness as well as real estate-­related ditions in its consumer finance business and non core assets -1,000 seas assets in response to the global financial crisis FY 2000 2005 2010 The Shinsei Bank Group External Environment Transition of Stock 1952 2000 2005 T  he Long-Term Credit  hinsei Bank launched S L aunched 32 colors of new cash cards for retail Bank of Japan, Limited Name changed from The Long-Term Credit Bank Power-Flex account customers established of Japan, Limited (LTCB), to Shinsei Bank,  howa Leasing Co., Ltd. converted into a consolidatS Limited ed subsidiary 1998 Collapse of the IT bubble economy  nd of the government guarantee on full savings E  ue to business failures, D P  referred stock capital injection and a partial deposits temporary nationalization reduction of preferred stock capital without and special public mancompensation 2006 agement began based on Partial repayment of public funds the Financial Revitalization 2001 Cancellation of treasury shares Law  hinsei Securities Co., Ltd. commenced S operations 2007 March 2000 2003 S  HINKI Co., Ltd. (now Shinsei Personal Loan Co., Ltd.)  he Long-Term Credit T converted into a consolidated subsidiary Bank of Japan, Limited  hinsei Investment Management Co., Ltd. comS Conversion of preferred stock into common stock was bought out by New menced operations LTCB Partners CV, a US R  eduction of capital through the merger of two 2008 private equity investment shares of common stock into one share consortium comprised of Bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Ripplewood Holdings and 2004 Issuance of new shares by third-party allotment J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC  PLUS Co., Ltd. (now APLUS FINANCIAL Co., A Conversion of preferred stock into common stock Ltd.) converted into a consolidated subsidiary G  E Consumer Finance Co., Ltd. (now Shinsei Financial L isted the Bank’s common stock on the First Co., Ltd.) converted into a consolidated subsidiary Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Converted the Bank’s long-term credit bank 2010 charter to an ordinary bank charter European debt crisis 4 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Fiscal 2019 Business Topics S  econd Medium-Term  hird Medium-Term T  edium-Term M About the Shinsei Bank Group Management Plan Management Plan Strategies (FY2013~2015) (FY2016~2018) (FY2019~2021) BPS (yen) 2019 4,000 June 3,913 Institutional Business ESG Established Japan Impact Investment II Limited Partnership as infrastructure for supporting and developing startups aiming to solve social challenges 3,000 August Shinsei Bank Group Major shareholder sold its shares Individual Business 2,000 Commenced “Shinsei Bank Smart Money Lending” for Docomo users Creating a Positive Impact on Society December Individual Business Institutional Business Launched a joint finance business for USEN-NEXT 1,000 GROUP customers by USEN-NEXT HOLDINGS and the Shinsei Bank Group 190 2020 0 January Individual Business Established Credd Finance Co., Ltd. to offer credit services to foreign residents in Japan with Seven Bank, Ltd. -1,000 Institutional Business ESG Shinsei Corporate Investment Limited received the Our Innovation Stories “Tokyo Financial Award 2019-ESG Investment 2013 2016 2019 Category” Note: Shinsei Bank executed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on October 1, 2017. Institutional Business ESG Per share data is calculated on the assumption that the said reverse Established a Sustainable Impact Development stock split was executed prior to fiscal 2017. Division 2011 2019 February Institutional Business ESG Issuance of new shares through international offering A  cquired all shares of Announced support for TCFD (Task Force on Financial Japan Co., Ltd. Climate-Related Financial Disclosures) 2016  howa Leasing Co., Ltd. S recommendations S  howa Leasing Co., Ltd. converted into a whollyacquired the shares of Institutional Business owned consolidated subsidiary SHINKO LEASE CO., LTD. Commenced cloud factoring service through “anew  hinsei Financial Co., Ltd. entered the unsecured S  ormulated “Redesigning F G.K.”, which was established by OLTA and Shinsei Finance” Medium-Term Bank personal loan business in Vietnam Strong Flexible Support Strategies (fiscal 2019 to Introduction of negative interest rate policy March 2021) Acquisition of treasury shares Individual Business Implemented a secondary Started providing partner companies with offering of shares of com“BANKIT®”, a Neobank Platform 2017 mon stock of the Bank Established the “Shinsei Bank Group Headquarters” Acquired treasury stock April Acquisition of treasury shares Institutional Business ESG COVID-19 crisis Adopted Equator Principles Merger of 10 shares of common stock into one share June 2018 ESG Introduced a restricted stock compensation plan for  hinsei Financial Co., Ltd. launched a new “Lake ALSA” S outside directors brand, an unsecured loan product Individual Business Institutional Business D  etermination of “Shinsei Bank Smart Money Concluded an agreement to acquire stocks of UDC Data Section Lending” for Docomo users Finance Limited to make it a wholly-owned  lliance established with Global Trust Networks, Co. A subsidiary to establish fund to aid international students Institutional Business Acquisition and cancellation of treasury stock Participated to consider establishment of a joint venture company to promote regional revitalization SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 5 About the Shinsei Bank Group Group Business Profile The Shinsei Bank Group continues to proactively identify underserved customer needs, which are not met by conventional financial products and services. At the same time, we provide solutions to these needs as a financial enterprise group. Targeting both individual and corporate customers, we harness the functions within the Group to deliver unique financial products and services. Individual Business Institutional Business Retail Banking Corporate Business Markets Business Structured Finance Other Global Markets Businesses Consumer Finance Shinsei Financial Principal Transactions APLUS FINANCIAL Showa Leasing Individuals (including inbound and Large, medium and small enterprises / financial institutions / outbound travelers, foreigners, and public-sector entities / institutional investors individual business operators) Customers 6 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 The Shinsei Bank Group’s Products and Services The Shinsei Bank Group leverages its strengths to provide unique, hybrid, and seamless products and services, About the Shinsei Bank Group while keeping the social megatrends. Individual Business The Individual Business is composed of the retail banking business and consumer finance which provides products and services such as unsecured loans, credit cards, shopping credit and payment services for individual customers. Creating a Positive Impact on Society Unsecured Loans Shopping Credit Credit Cards Leasing Payment Our Innovation Stories Project Finance Housing Loans Mutual Funds, Real Estate Finance Insurance JPY / FCY Deposits, Products and Services for Corporate and Strong Flexible Support Structured Deposits Financial Institutions Private Equity The Institutional Business is composed of the corporate business, structured finance business, private equity investment and business succession financing business, leasing business, as well as delivering market services that provide m ­ arket solutions for foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives among others. Data Section Institutional Business SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 7 About the Shinsei Bank Group Financial Highlights Operating Assets Deposits (Trillions of yen) (Trillions of yen) 8 ¥7.9 trillion 8 6 6 ¥6.3 trillion 4 4 2 2 0 0 (End of Mar.) 16 17 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) 16 17 18 19 20 The balance of operating assets increased, mainly in the core Stable deposits are mainly from individual customers, and the Bank business areas such as institutional investors business and small-scale maintains adequate deposit balances in both yen and foreign finance. currencies. R  atio of Nonperforming Claims Classified under the Financial  otal Revenue / Profit Attributable to Owners of T Revitalization Law to Total Claims (Nonconsolidated) the Parent (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1.00 250 ¥239.9 billion 100 0.75 200 80 150 60 0.50 ¥45.5 billion 0.34% 100 40 0.25 50 20 0 0 0 (End of Mar.) 16 17 18 19 20 (FY) 15 16 17 18 19 Total Revenue (Left) Under the Financial Revitalization Law, the ratio of nonperforming loan Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Right) (NPL), which indicates the quality of assets, remained at a low level. We are committed to increasing stable revenue based on actual customer demand and improving the quality of revenue under the continuous monetary easing by BOJ’s negative interest rate policy and an uncertain economic environment.  xpenses / Expenses-to-Revenue Ratio E Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio (International Standard) (Management Accounting Basis) (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 300 75 15 62.3% 11.3% 200 50 10 ¥149.5 billion 100 25 5 0 0 0 (FY) 15 16 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 16 17 18 19 20 Expenses (Left) Expenses-to-Revenue Ratio (Right) Despite an increase in risk assets due to an increase in the balance of While system costs increased due to the new core banking system, operating assets in the focus areas, the capital ratio remains at a the Shinsei Bank Group is working to reduce expenses-to-revenue sufficient level due to the steady accumulation of profits. ratio through the unified promotion of productivity reforms. * Expenses and expenses-to-revenue ratio represented on an operating result basis. 8 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Nonfinancial Highlights Ratio of Outside Directors on the Board of Directors Ratio of Female Executives About the Shinsei Bank Group 71.4% 28.6% Outside directors with diverse skills and expertise comprise the Two out of seven directors are female directors. Creating a Positive Impact on Society majority of the directors. The Bank has maintained this structure since it commenced operations. Number of Registered Side Work / Concurrent Work Arrangement of Renewable Energy Project Finance (Employees) (Billions of yen) 60 57 employees 150 ¥138.5 billion 50 120 40 90 Our Innovation Stories 30 60 20 30 10 0 0 (FY) 18 19 (FY) 17 18 19 To enhance diverse career, we started allowing employees to concurSince 2012, we have been expanding the base of domestic project rently engage in personal business (outsourcing, business start-up, finance investors and promoting syndication with regional financial company executive, etc.) or work concurrently for another company as institutions through project finance for renewable energy. the advanced system among the domestic financial institutions. Ratio of Female Managers “MoneyConnection®” Financial Literacy Program Strong Flexible Support (%) (Schools) 148,577 (Students) students 35 32.7% 1,500 150,000 30 1,158 1,200 schools 120,000 25 900 90,000 20 17.8% 15 600 60,000 10 300 30,000 5 0 0 0 (FY) 17 18 19 (FY) 17 18 19 Data Section Section Leader-Level or Higher Cumulative Number of Schools Where the Program Was Held (Left) Section Manager-Level or Higher Cumulative Number of Student Participants (Right) Recognizing that promoting the active participation of women is one of The Shinsei Bank Group considers the unemployment risk of younger the most important issues in promoting diversity, we are developing an people as a social issue to be solved. We actively work on promoting environment and implementing initiatives such as increasing the number and expanding “MoneyConnection®,” a financial literacy program of flexible work styles and options for diverse careers so that women can mainly targeted at high school students, aiming to help them gain continue to play an active role by leveraging the strengths and characthe accurate knowledge and the concept of money. teristics of each and every woman in every level and job category. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 9 About the Shinsei Bank Group At a Glance Individual Business Total Revenue Ordinary Business Profit after Net Credit Costs 65% 47% (Billions of yen) 160 ¥156.6 billion (Billions of yen) 30 ¥23.9 billion 120 20 80 10 40 0 0 (FY) 17 18 19 (FY) 17 18 19 Note: The percentage figures do not add up to 100% due to the contribution of Corporate / Other. Major Businesses Retail Banking Yen / foreign currency deposits, structured deposits, investment trusts, securities brokerage services (through a partner institution), life and n ­ onlife insurance (through partner institutions), housing loans, provision of financial transactions and services for individuals Shinsei Financial Unsecured loans and credit guarantees (Shinsei Financial, Shinsei Bank Card Loan L (former Shinsei Bank Lake), NOLOAN, Lake ALSA) APLUS FINANCIAL Shopping credit, credit cards, loans and payment services O  ther Individual Other subsidiaries Business 10 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Institutional Business About the Shinsei Bank Group Total Revenue Ordinary Business Profit after Net Credit Costs 32% 48% Creating a Positive Impact on Society (Billions of yen) 80 ¥76.8 billion (Billions of yen) 30 ¥24.6 billion 60 20 40 Our Innovation Stories 10 20 0 0 (FY) 17 18 19 (FY) 17 18 19 Major Businesses Strong Flexible Support Corporate Business Provision of financial products, services and advisory services for corporations, public-sector entities and financial institutions, healthcare finance business, trust banking business Structured Finance Real estate-related nonrecourse finance and corporate finance, project finance, specialty finance including M&A-related finance Principal Transactions Private equity, credit trading, business succession finance and asset-backed investment, etc. Showa Leasing Financial products and services focused around lease finance Data Section Markets Business Foreign exchange, derivatives, equity-related and other capital markets business  ther Global Markets O Securities business, asset management business, wealth management business Businesses SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 11 Creating a Positive Impact on Society Corporate Value Creation Mechanism Society in 2030 The Shinsei Bank Group’s Value Creation Process Business Model Core Strategy Deploy Enhance / Self-Contained Model products / services Leverage Our know-how Capabilities Input Value creation from P.24 internal resources Human Resources • Diverse human resources that generates innovative ideas Quick, flexible business deployment Consolidated employees: 5,349 Flexible Internalized response to products / Enhance Organization customer needs services products / services • An organizational structure that enables customerknow-how oriented business Operation Source of Our Strengths • Stable and productive operating system Information Financial Management Capital Strengths Technology Technology Infrastructure • Financial infrastructure supporting “Redesigning Finance” Operating assets: ¥7.9 trillion Deposits: ¥6.3 trillion Address social and Foundation for meeting our environmental issues goals / responsibilities  Access to finance  Fund flows that fit society’s needs  Solutions through integration with external services Priority Management Issues (Materiality) Expertise and Execution Governance People 12 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Seamlessly integrating the Group’s management resources that cross over a wide range of corporate entities and industries, Shinsei Bank is looking to directly help realize a society that can enjoy the benefits of financial and nonCreated Value financial products and services that meet the underserved needs of individual customers and companies through a process of co-creation with external partners. About the Shinsei Bank Group Core Strategy Grow through Value Co-Creation P.24 Output Outcome Society-Related Capital Access to finance • Improve access to finance Fund flows that fit • Build and plan ecosystems in partnership with society’s needs Value Co-Creation Model companies in other industries • Deeper understanding of our customers Solutions through Creating a Positive Impact on Society Generation of synergies by integrating data, integration with • Maintain higher level of customer satisfaction know-how with external services external services Ranked in the top three in “Internet Banking” category of Oricon’s customer satisfaction surFulfill our social vey for three consecutive years responsibilities Greater value for our customers Intellectual Capital • Provide customer-centric financial function and Deeper solution Finance understanding of • Provide financial literacy program as a Service our customers “MoneyConnection®” financial literacy program cumulative number of student participants (since fiscal 2007): 148,577 P.23 Natural Capital Our Innovation Stories Growth Opportunities • Financing renewable energy projects Results of bilateral and joint arrangement: ¥138.5 billion Governance Human and Organizational Capital • Active participation of women in the workplace Ratio of females at the executive officer level: 17.1% Ratio of females at the section manager-level or higher: 32.7% • An organizational structure that allows a comFulfill our social responsibilities petitive and diverse human resource Number of employees registering concurrent Strong Flexible Support  Social infrastructure services business or side business: 57  Customer-oriented services Financial Capital • ROE 5.1% • Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) Ratio 11.3% P.25 (As of March 31, 2020) P.22 Data Section Capital Operations Organization SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 13 Creating a Positive Impact on Society CEO Message Hideyuki Kudo President and Chief Executive Officer 14 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Row out on the Ocean Under the Name of About the Shinsei Bank Group “New Normal” with a Ship Called “Redesigning Finance” The spread of COVID-19 worldwide is rapidly slowing the globalization of humans and goods and dividing and Creating a Positive Impact on Society blocking the material world. At the same time, through the persistent endeavors of medical professionals, and a process of trial and error, everyday life is beginning to resume in a new way through the virtual world using “digital” means as a tool. However, once we overcome this global crisis or after we become accustomed to it, the values and behaviors of the world are likely to enter a “new normal” and would not return to pre-COVID-19 conditions. In addition to fulfilling its responsibilities and missions as a part of the overall social infrastructure, institutions that are responsible to provide finance functions, which are indispensable to people’s daily lives and social activities, must contribute to activities that create new daily lives in the new normal. Last year, the Shinsei Bank Group embarked on a variety of new initiatives under the banner of “Redesigning Finance.” I believe it is necessary to have a ship called “Redesigning Finance” to reconsider the way finance should be approached to Our Innovation Stories go to the coastal sea area of this rough new normal. I would like to express my sincere condolences to those The Shinsei Bank Group places the highest priority on who passed away due to the COVID-19 infection, and I ensuring the health and safety of its employees and their would like to express my sincere sympathy to those families, customers, shareholders, investors, and other affected by it. I would like to express my sincere apprecistakeholders, and is doing its utmost to fulfill its mission ation to the healthcare professionals for their dedication as a financial institution that is a part of the social infraevery day to this harsh environment. structure. Strong Flexible Support Irreversible Change The year 2019 experienced many major natural disasters protect employees and customers and overcome these and the year 2020 is confronted with the worldwide difficulties. Furthermore, I believe it is an important spread of COVID-19. The movement of humans and management endeavor to utilize the strengths of the goods has become limited and has a major impact on Shinsei Bank Group to respond to new values and needs people’s lives, including economic activities. We are arising from this crisis and to help the society move in a Data Section witnessing a life that has changed drastically. I am thinkbetter direction. This message outlines how the Shinsei ing about what we can do and what we should do as a Bank Group is trying to face risks and, at the same time, financial institution. As a corporate group, it is natural to capture opportunities. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 15 Creating a Positive Impact on Society CEO Message Solidify Defense: Stand up to Risk As an emergency response, the Shinsei Bank Group was employees are able to directly communicate with each required to have two things: other more than ever before, while imagining each other’s thoughts and feelings. I hope that this experience 1 Protecting the lives of its employees, their families, will further improve the communication skills of our customers, and all the other stakeholders employees and enables them to communicate more 2 Contribute to customers and society by fulfilling its openly with our customers as well as other external stakeholders. responsibilities as a financial institution that is a part As for 2, in order to fulfill the mission of financial of the social infrastructure and providing a stable institutions as a supporter of social activities and livelisupply of basic finance functions hoods, the first step is to focus on critical operations and establish a stable operations structure. The second step As for 1, the first step was to “maintain physical disis to upgrade this operational structure to a more sustance among people.” In line with the transition to tainable form, with a view that the current state of social Windows 10 in the latter half of 2019, we developed a distancing will be prolonged. At the same time, we need system that enables employees to work remotely by to consider a mediumto long-term structure in order to combining the distribution of laptop PCs to employees respond to the current situation in an ongoing manner. and the transition to flexible work style reforms. As a While the management continues to focus on this, we result, even in this emergency, we have been able to need to work on promoting it further within the Shinsei shift to teleworking relatively smoothly. Nevertheless, Bank Group. many employees are unaccustomed to such work style, Solidifying defense does not mean shrinking our and work silently on their personal computers throughbusinesses. Based on the materiality of the Shinsei Bank out the day, resulting in a psychological isolation. Since Group, which is “social infrastructure services” and teleworking is causing a significant “physical” distance, “customer-oriented services,” we will take risks in adthere is a need to alleviate the “psychological” distance. dressing issues for society and for the Shinsei Bank The foundation for creating a sense of unity and solidariGroup. ty is one-to-one communication, so supervisors and Take Steps: Seize Opportunities Just passively carrying out minimal work as a part of the technological evolution that supports our goal. As to the social infrastructure does not fulfill our original role. We materiality, our role is to solve social and environmental have a valuable presence as a financial institution when issues, and promote “access to finance,” “fund flows we provide value to our customers and the society. This that fit society’s needs,” and “solutions through integrais a time when we should demonstrate our presence as a tion with external services.” This strategic axis is a financial institution. As the impact of the COVID-19 is management challenge that should be tackled at an likely to be prolonged, we will accept these conditions accelerated pace due to the changes caused by the as new normal and support customers who suffer from COVID-19. these changes. In addition, we will take a positive perNext, I will explain how we are addressing these spective on changes in our new behavior, values, and management challenges, how we can “redesign fineeds, including how we can capture business opportunance” and provide new value to the society, and what nities and what value we can provide. There is also a impact we are trying to have on the society. 16 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Opportunities Risks Address social and environmental issue Fulfill our social responsibilities Access to finance Social infrastructure services Fund flows that fit society’s needs Customer-oriented services Solutions through integration with external services Creating a Positive Impact on Society Foundation for meeting our goals / responsibilities Expertise, Execution Governance Organization People Operations Capital Our Innovation Stories Not Choosing a “Mutually Exclusive” Binary Option, but Finding a “Mutually Inclusive” Option by Giving Priority to What Truly Needs to Be Realized In many cases where we are forced to choose an alternabackground that “it should be like this.” The act of tive, it is not difficult to make a choice if the criteria, i.e., redesigning finance in order to realize what we are values and priorities, are clear. Also, if there is a single aiming for will create a conflict in values with those who decision-maker, whether it is a person or a corporate want to protect the traditional way of doing things. entity, it is not so difficult to make a choice. However, it is In order to eliminate these binary conflicts, redesignStrong Flexible Support not easy when external parties are involved since each ing finance requires creativity to change perspectives party generally has hidden priorities. The “internal and find ways to meet higher-level objectives, as well as circumstances” of each party are a typical example. In flexibility to accept different values. such a situation, we should not compromise on the The flexibility of individuals to accept these creativities opinion of merely two parties, but instead we should and different values is an important factor in building look at the true “objective we should aim for” or the organizational capabilities. This is why the concept of objective we were originally aiming for as a true priority. redesigning finance requires us to transform our finance So that we are able to move away from a binary option businesses as well as our own behavior in the following between A or B and instead find an alternative choice C two aspects. which would satisfy both A and B. Data Section In addition, there are some reasons behind the current “design” of finance, such as the historical background and the sense of values and beliefs emerged from the SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 17 Creating a Positive Impact on Society CEO Message Business: Creation of Sustainability, Social Impact and “Redesigning Finance” Enhancement of corporate value is delivered from a posunsecured loan business, by using “Docomo Scoring,” a itive impact on the society. In order to create that, we are credit score for each customer calculated from big data thinking about what kind of businesses we should conobtained from Docomo’s wide-ranging business developduct, what kind of businesses and projects we should ment, facilitates presenting optimal transaction terms to support, and what is lacking in us and preventing us from customers. In December, we announced the launch of a realizing that. Then we should abandon our conventional joint venture providing financing businesses with USENdefinition or belief that “finance should be like this,” or NEXT HOLDINGS. The Shinsei Bank Group provides that “a bank should be like…, a credit card company USEN-NEXT GROUP’s approximately 750,000 small busishould be…, or a money lending business should be…” nesses with financial services such as shopping credits The Shinsei Bank Group is working to co-create prod(sales credit), vendor leasing, business credits, and other ucts with external partners, both in the areas of financial lending products. In January 2020, the Group and Seven and nonfinancial in this regard. Specifically, in August Bank, Ltd. jointly established Credd Finance Co., Ltd. to 2019, we launched “Shinsei Bank Smart Money Lending” provide credit-related services to foreign residents. for Docomo line subscribers in collaboration with NTT In March, we also released BANKIT®, a Neobank Docomo, Inc. In addition to the credit screening knowPlatform that enables smartphone apps and APIs to colhow that the Shinsei Bank Group has cultivated in the laborate with external partners, as a platform to realize collaboration with external partners. This enables partner companies to select financial services such as settlement, currency exchange, and credit functions of the Shinsei Bank Group in the cafeteria format. Partners who do not have their own financial platforms can also use BANKIT® to provide financial services to their customers. These initiatives cannot be carried out solely by the Shinsei Bank Group, and they can neither be carried out solely by partner companies. The Shinsei Bank Group and our partners together can create services where customers can experience added “value”. Organizational Capabilities: Respect for Diversity and “Redesigning Finance” Realizing and respecting diversity is a part of our corpoexpressing their respective values, mindset, and their rate strategy with the goal of strengthening the own ideas. Messages originating from each person are capabilities of the organizations that support our busiinterpreted in a variety of ways by the recipient. nesses. The first place in diversity is the promotion of However, without the ability to see things from different active participation of women. This is indeed one of the perspectives, or the sensibility to accept the values most important issues. However, diversity is not just behind the other party’s messages, this diversity cannot about gender, race, religion, and origin. There are no be exploited. This is the true meaning of inclusion. two people who are the same in this world. Individuals Without such diversity and inclusion awareness, exist in this world, and they provide diversity simply by “Redesigning Finance” will not proceed well. 18 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 How can we spread and foster awareness of diversity Ms. Shiho Konno sent out messages to group employAbout the Shinsei Bank Group and inclusion throughout the organization? By getting in ees regarding diversity and women’s participation. In touch with the values of people with different cultures as addition to that, we hosted lectures by members of much as possible and by experiencing these values ourother companies who have been active as directors or selves through business operations or internal and managers and held organizational training courses external training, I think our management and employbased on gender differences. ees will be able to continue to make daily efforts to In addition, we launched a female employee resource increase their experience. In this sense, I will first explain development program in 2019 and introduced a mentor the measures and progress in promoting the active parsystem. Furthermore, to promote diversity with a sense ticipation of women in the workplace, which is one of the of speed, from fiscal 2020, we have set the Diversity most important propositions. The Shinsei Bank Group Promotion Target as a personnel evaluation item for Creating a Positive Impact on Society participates in external initiatives such as the 30% Club managers. Japan1 and the Women’s Empowerment Principles2, as Our measures, so far, are not just promoting the active well as establishment of the “Committee on Promoting participation of women. In order to ensure that each perthe Role of Group Women in the Workplace” to strongly son’s individuality and strengths become the strength of promote the proposition. As of the end of June 2020, the organization, we provide a variety of support, includthere are two women board members among seven in ing support for employees who are responsible for total. Two out of the three Audit & Supervisory Board childcare, the ease with which people with cancer can members are women. Hence, women represent 40% of work, and the promotion of the active participation of total board members. On the other hand, there is an employees with disabilities. In order to promote the issue where females still represent a lower proportion at “Redesigning Finance,” we will strengthen our capabiliOur Innovation Stories the senior level for business execution. The proportion ties so that all crew members of the ship called of female managers (section manager-level or higher) is “Redesigning Finance” can work actively respecting relatively high (32.7%), but at the executive officer level, each other. only six officers, 17% out of the 35 are women, and the 1. A global campaign launched in the UK to increase the proportion of women in key corporate decision-making bodies, including board of directors number of candidates for the next-generation female 2. Principles of conduct jointly established by the United Nations Global Compact managers is still insufficient. To address this issue, board (UNGC) and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) members, Ms. Rie Murayama, Ms. Ikuko Akamatsu, and Message to Our Stakeholders Strong Flexible Support I feel such great change and dynamism toward the crethe Shinsei Bank Group, will continue to work hard to ation of a world in which politicians, academics, media, create values together with partner companies, cultivating company owners, social activists, and citizens imagine, the raison d’être (purpose of the enterprise) of the Shinsei think, and act as to what kind of world the new normal will Bank Group. We seek continued support from all our be like. In this environment, finance functions that are stakeholders. indispensable to people’s daily lives will continue to be important. In addition to fulfilling its responsibilities and July 2020 missions as a part of the social infrastructure, people who are responsible for finance functions are strongly required to exercise creativity that makes the new normal active. Data Section We, the Shinsei Bank Group, reaffirm this awareness, embarking on a vessel called “Redesigning Finance” and Hideyuki Kudo moving into the new normal ocean. We, the employees of President and Chief Executive Officer SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 19 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Review of the Past Medium-Term Management Plan During the nine years of the first through third Medium-Term Management Plans, the Shinsei Bank Group has been shifting to a business model in which profits exceed ¥420 billion while reducing profit volatility and recording stable profits. By formulating and implementing new strategies based on the issues identified, we aim to increase corporate value by providing products and services that make the most of the Shinsei Bank Group’s strengths and uniqueness. (Billions of yen) 500 52.3 400 51.4 50.7 300 60.9 200 67.8 Accumulated earnings over 41.3 ¥420 billion 100 51.0 42.6 6.4 0 10.4-11.3 11.4-12.3 12.4-13.3 13.4-14.3 14.4-15.3 15.4-16.3 16.4-17.3 17.4-18.3 18.4-19.3 1st MTMP 2nd MTMP 3rd MTMP 10.4-13.3 13.4-16.3 16.4-19.3 Plan Outline • Rebuilding the customer • Further expanding the • “Selection and franchise customer base concentration” of business • E stablishing a stabilized • Increasing quality assets • Creation of value through base earnings while improving our group integration portfolio • Achieve flexible business management and lean operations Results NIM 2.09% 2.28% 2.43% Expensesto-Revenue 57.5% 63.4% 62.3% Ratio ROA 0.3% 0.6% 0.6% ROE 5.1% 7.7% 6.1% Risk Monitored 7.29% 2.09% 1.56% Loan Ratio1 CET1 ratio1 – 12.9% 12.0% Total Payout 8.0% 10.6% 35.0% Ratio 1 Figures of final year of each MTMP are presented • Optimized risk weighted • Improved capital ratio by • Business franchise in unseassets through reduction of accumulating earnings cured loans and structured non core business assets • Significant profits contribufinance reflected steady tion was mainly from credit profits reserve on the disposal of • Improved earning structure NPLs and one-off profits of retail banking Issues • Stabilization of earnings • Increasing recurring / • Total payout ratio improved remained as a challenge stable profits remained as a while low ROE remained as challenge a challenge 20 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Mediumto Long-Term Changes in the Global Environment • Rising security needs About the Shinsei Bank Group • Entering different industries 1 Digitalization • Greater sophistication of IT infrastructure • Increasingly cashless • Aging of consumers 2 Aging society •C  hanging asset management needs due to longer lifespans Creating a Positive Impact on Society • Decline in working-age population • Changes in services available to consumers • E xpansion of C2C transactions 3 Diversification of lifestyles •E  volving consumption styles and consumer awareness • Growth in a sharing economy Important keywords for • Increased mobility in labor market 4 Diversity in working styles environmental • Changes in occupational awareness change Our Innovation Stories • Increase in visitors and workers from overseas 5 Globalization • Acceleration from domestic to overseas investments • Capital inflow from outside Japan 6 Expansion of investment opportunities • Discovery of potential investment targets • E xpanding income disparity 7 Growing inequality • Growing regional disparity • Increasing gap in IT literacy Strong Flexible Support Impact from mediumto long-term environmental change • Increasingly sophisticated levels of ­customer needs Data Section • Accelerating growth in links between business operators SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 21 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Materiality The Shinsei Bank Group identifies core competencies that are socially significant in business activities and have the greatest impact on increasing corporate value as materiality. By linking opportunities and risks with SDGs, we aim to solve social issues and continuously increase our corporate value through our business activities. Materiality for the Shinsei Bank Group: Opportunities and Risks Address social and environmental issues Fulfill our social responsibilities Opportunities Risks Access to finance Social infrastructure services • Provide services for customer needs which are • Firmly provide fundamental financial functions not satisfied by traditional financial services (deposit, loan, payment etc.) as social • Provide payment methods with emerging infrastructure technology • Maintain cyber security Fund flows that fit society’s needs • Prevent money laundering • Provide solutions for supporting sustainable Customer-oriented services social capital • Place customer’s benefit first Solutions through integration with external • Give information that is accurate and easy to services digest • Build / participate in ecosystems, use of digital technology Support these Support these SDGs: SDGs: Foundation for meeting our goals / responsibilities Expertise and Execution Governance Organization People Operations Capital Support these SDGs: Links between materiality and SDGs Based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit which we implement those roles and responsibilities is innovaheld in 2015, over 150 participating Member State leaders tion (SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure). By adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as targets promoting greater innovation, it becomes possible to achieve that would change the world. Sustainable development is sustainable economic growth and decent humane working defined as development that is sufficient to meet the needs of conditions (SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth). We will the current generation, while not diminishing the ability of future make contributions to sustainable economic growth through generations to sufficiently meet their needs. In the pursuit of investments and loans for social infrastructure that make clean overcoming the disparities of generations and regions, and the energy prevalent (SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy). In building of a society in which no one is left behind, more than addition, decent, humane employment is linked to an organizajust in developing countries, it is the advanced nations that are tion’s recognition of equality and diversity, including with regard particular targets for change. Linking the principles of these to gender, nationality, age, and place of origin (SDG 5: Gender SDGs with the materiality of the Shinsei Bank Group, we believe, Equality). will work to convey to our stakeholders the impact that the Achieving acceptance and coexistence in a diverse society outcomes generated by the Shinsei Bank Group have on society. means securing a legal system, compliance, and security through One theme of the Medium-Term Strategies is innovation. In the realization of a peaceful and fair world in which no one is left carrying out our roles and responsibilities to society toward behind, including customers and employees, and the range of addressing social and environmental issues, namely, the materiother stakeholders (SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Instituality of the Shinsei Bank Group, the common foundation upon tions). 22 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Medium-Term Strategies and Business Model About the Shinsei Bank Group Based on the identified materiality, the Medium-Term Strategies, which began in fiscal 2019, outlines processes for value creation through two basic strategies and business models. The Shinsei Bank Group’s strengths are resolved into factors to the level of competence to provide individual functions and competencies to the others in an abstract and generalized manner. By doing so, our services will be more attractive to our “value co-creation model” customers. In addition, we are designing a feedback loop that further refines our self-contained business model by feeding back the results. Overview of Medium-Term Strategies Creating a Positive Impact on Society Capabilities Business Model Created Value Core Strategy Core Strategy Sustainable Growth Enhance / Leverage Address social and Grow through Value Co-Creation Our Capabilities environmental issues Fulfill our social People Input Output responsibilities Organization Value Foundation for Self-Contained Co-Creation meeting our goals / Model responsibilities Operations Model Our Innovation Stories Capital Profitability Financial Targets Business Model: Self-Contained Model and Value Co-Creation Model Deploy Self-Contained Model Value Co-Creation Model Strong Flexible Support products / services B to B to C know-how B x B to C B to C Value creation from Generation of synergies by integrating data, internal resources know-how with external services Quick, flexible business deployment Greater value for our customers Flexible Internalized Deeper Enhance Finance as a response to products / understanding of products / services Service customer needs services our customers know-how Data Section Source of Our Strengths Growth Opportunities SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 23 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Core Strategies and Business Strategies In an era of transformation where future is not an extension of the present, we are required to seek growth that cannot be achieved by past achievements or technologies alone. The Shinsei Bank Group’s basic strategies are “grow through value co-creation,” which combines our Group’s strengths with those of others, and “enhance/ leverage our capabilities,” as input capital. We aim to meet customers’ needs who are not satisfied with conventional financial services through individual strategies for Individual Business and Institutional Business. Core Strategies Grow through Value Enhance / Leverage Our Co-Creation Capabilities Integration with external services Diverse people and flexible workstyle Finance as a Service Customer-centric organization Deeper understanding of our Productive operations customers Optimal capital usage Maximization of customer value Optimal usage of our resources Business Strategies Business Strategy Individual Business Business Strategy Institutional Business Focus Area Small-Scale Finance Focus Area Institutional Investors Enhance service offerings through building / Provide one-stop services for alternative participating in ecosystems, using digital investments technology and data analysis Organization Infrastructure Focus Area Group Organization Focus Area Productivity Reforms Integrate business functions across the Group Cost structure reform including usage of digital technology and channel optimization 24 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Nonfinancial KPIs and Financial KPIs About the Shinsei Bank Group We are proactively working to manage our progress on the nonfinancial and financial KPIs we have set in order to achieve our sustainable growth story and resolve social and environmental issues through our business activities. Value that the Shinsei Bank Group Wants to Impact Society: Nonfinancial KPIs Materiality Main business Nonfinancial KPIs Progress Increase access point to • Deployment of the Shinsei Bank 1  roviding platform by the Shinsei Bank Group: BANKIT® P finance, both directly Group’s platforms and ecosystems 2 Establishment of joint ventures with partner companies: Credd and indirectly, for more • Participation of partner companies in Finance and Shinsei Bridge for foreigners’ ecosystems; anew for Address people platforms and ecosystems cloud factoring for SMEs and micro-businesses social and 3 Participation of partners in platforms and ecosystems: collaboraCreating a Positive Impact on Society environmental tion with USEN NEXT HOLDINGS and collaboration with Docomo issues Expand financing to help In the institutional investor business, 1 E  stablished the Sustainable Impact Development Division resolve climate change 1 A mount of new origination 2 Bilateral and joint arrangement of domestic renewable energy and social issues 2 Amount of new distribution project finance: Fiscal 2019: ¥138.5 billion Provide reliable financial • Initiatives to ensure cyber security 1 C  ooperation with external specialist organizations Fulfill our social services in a stable 2 Implementation of measures against cyber attacks on informaresponsibilities manner tion systems 3 Training and education Have strong governance, 1 E  volution of board governance 1 Number of outside directors: 5 out of 7 directors employees respect each 2 Initiatives for organizational issues Directors’ skill diversity: Skill matrix (See p.48) other’s strengths, and based on the Group’s organizational Transparency and objectivity of remuneration and nomination: work together to create survey Discussion by the nomination and compensation committee, new value 3 Promoting diversity which is comprised of outside directors (See p.44) 2 Implementation of effective measures Our Innovation Stories •M  anagement of evaluation and compensation: System design changes, including the introduction of a group-wide personnel system Foundation for •D  evelopment of team management skills for managers: Establishmeeting our ment of team management skills and career support for goals / subordinates as evaluation items for managers, expansion of responsibilities training for managers, etc. •H  uman resource management: Appropriate manpower allocation and reduction of work volume, human resource development, utilization of senior human resources, etc. • Communication: Transmission of information from executives through town hall meetings, revitalizing group organizations through the launch of new projects, etc. 3 Ratio of women in managerial positions on a Group basis (Fiscal 2019: 13.9%, Fiscal 2022: 18% or above) Strong Flexible Support Economic Value that the Shinsei Bank Group Wants to Create: Financial KPIs EPS Growth Rate Growth Profit Share of Focus Areas Growth (Share of operating business profit after net credit costs, excluding one-time factors) Annual average Small-scale finance Businesses for institutional investors excluding the share buyback effect FY2018 FY2021 FY2018 FY2021 2% or more 45% 50% 10% 15% ROE Profitability OHR Efficiency CET 1 Ratio Soundness In the medium term FY2018 In the medium term FY2018 FY2021 Less than FY2018 Minimum 6.0% 8.0% 63.0% 50% 12.0% 10% Shinsei Bank aims to maintain or improve the total shareholder return ratio, depending on financial conditions and market Data Section Shareholder environment, considering total shareholder return policy as outlined in the Revitalization Plan.* Return * As mentioned in the Revitalization Plan submitted to the Financial Services Agency on March 25, 2020, we will continue to aim to maintain and improve our shareholder return, taking into consideration the level of the general total shareholder return ratio of Japanese domestic banks. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 25 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Medium-Term Strategies Business Group Business Strategy The Shinsei Bank Group aims to increase its ROE and share value through its inorganic strategy that means efficient use of its capital for growth through business partnership and acquisition. By creating a “non-continuative” growth opportunity and raise the evaluation of its business model, it aims to improve the Group’s corporate value. Yoshiaki Kozano Director, Chief Officer, Group Business Strategy Creation of “quantitative non-continuative growth Three Visions of Our Inorganic Strategy opportunities” We create growth opportunities with our partners to generate Create Non-Continuative volumes, such as balances and profits. In order to scale up and Growth Opportunity to accelerate existing business, we will create growth opportunities by business acquisitions and business partnerships “Quantitative” “Qualitative” where we provide our financial know-how. non-continuation non-continuation Specifically, we launched a lending service for individual Acquisition for Value co-creation with customers of NTT Docomo, Inc., and commenced sales credit expansion of existing nonfinancial business business through ecosystem and leasing services for 750,000 small businesses’ customers of USEN-NEXT GROUP in collaboration with USEN-NEXT HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. In addition, we established Credd Enhancement of the skill creation Finance, Ltd. with Seven Bank, Ltd. to provide various financial Acquisition and partnership featured by advanced technology products and services to more than 200,000 Seven Bank’s foreign resident customers in Japan. Enhancement of the skill creation We will accelerate to create the Shinsei Bank Group’s skills by Inc., a pioneer company of online cloud factoring service. With leveraging acquisitions and strategic alliances with advanced their scoring know-how, we realized quick finance service that technologies. covers small scale and short-term working capital financing This will enhance the Shinsei Bank Group’s capabilities and needs of SME companies that have not been satisfied by conbecome a driver of the creation of new services. As an example, ventional banking services. we established a new joint venture company “anew” with OLTA Creation of “qualitative non-continuative growth Which Segment? opportunities” With changes in the social structure and dramatic advances in The new segment which will grow in future technology, customer segments that have new needs are emerging. We will work with other industries to create ecosysUnderserved segment tems, customize them, and develop differentiation strategies Niche segment that satisfy customer needs through personalization and introduction of new solutions. To this end, the Bank has established the “Shinsei Bridge.” In collaboration with companies in other SME Foreigners (Food service, industries, we are accumulating and analyzing a variety of Nursing, etc.) behavioral data and returning value to non-Japanese workers and students, in which “underserved” markets where current Freelancer services are not sufficiently delivered and also where financial institutions have not regarded them as strategic segments. 26 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Small-Scale Finance Strategy As the social environment changes, the needs of customers are diversifying. The advancement of digital technologies has given us the means to meet our customers’ needs. The main strategy is “value co-creation,” which means creating new value through collaboration with third parties, evolving the unsecured loan business, which is our Tetsuro Shimizu Managing Executive Officer, strong business field, into “small-scale financing.” Head of Individual Business Unit Collaboration with External Companies Creating a Positive Impact on Society Providing Functions Providing Functions with Platform Partner Company Leasing, Shopping Lending Services for Credit for Small Individual Customers Partner Company Partner Company Businesses etc. Our Innovation Stories Credit to Foreign Housing Loan Residents Companies which have Companies which have their own platforms no platform Strong Flexible Support Points • Provide new added value through NTT Docomo’s technological capabilities • Scoring based on data held by NTT Docomo • The Shinsei Bank Group provides risk-taking functions and gains access to new customer segments • Customer base of 750,000 companies partnering with USEN-NEXT GROUP • Provide commercial finance services, such as shopping credit, small leasing, and corporate cards through the joint venture with the Shinsei Bank Group • Develop further financial services for sole proprietors and SMEs • Seven Bank’s ability to provide services and brand power to foreign customers • Provide financial services for foreigners through joint venture with the Shinsei Bank Group Data Section • Contribute to achievement of SDGs through comprehensive supports for the rich lives of foreigners in Japan • Developed a new housing loan product for purchasing Hebel Haus of Asahi Kasei Homes • Alliances with partners who can guarantee future values of high-quality houses after building them • Reduced monthly repayment by making a part of the loan principal payable in a lump sum at the end of the term SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 27 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Medium-Term Strategies Business Business Strategies for Institutional Investors While meeting institutional investors’ demands for long-term investment management, we will develop the strengths and create new growth opportunities to diversify our earnings opportunities. We will use this framework to raise the level of sustainability and ESG-related initiatives in all of our Institutional Businesses. Shinichirou Seto Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Institutional Business Unit Business framework Three Strategies and Purposes We promote our institutional investor business through three Three Strategies strategies. First, we will deepen our steadily growing structured finance business, and then apply this knowledge to our Promote joint investment Develop structured joint investment business with institutional investors. In I finance II businesses addition to these two strategies, we will add an assessment of with institutional investors ESG and sustainability through the “Sustainability Focus”, and aim for further growth through interaction. III Focus on sustainability Our strengths and demands of institutional investors There is deep-rooted demand from institutional investors for real asset-based alternative investments that are well suited Expand earnings opportunities by creating new growth for long-term investment. This area largely overlaps with the Arrangement and asset management fees, etc. structured finance offered in syndications. The perspectives of sustainability and ESG also coincide. The strengths of 3 Business Strategies Shinsei Bank and the strong affinity between institutional • Deepening structured finance business investors’ demand for investment have contributed to the With real assets such as infrastructure, real estate, healthcare, three strategies. and ship/aircraft as our major strategic fields, we have established a sales framework that forms the foundation of our A  dvantages of Shinsei Bank and Affinities to business for institutional investors. We will take advantage of Investment Demand the demand for projects in a wide range of fields as a business opportunity to promote the diversification of strategies. Our Advantages Investment Demand of Affinities (Growth fields) Institutional Investors • Promoting joint investment businesses with institutional Syndication Real asset-type*1 Structured Sustainability investors Distribution to Alternatives*2 finance institutional Infrastructures, ESG / SDGs Our promotion efforts will focus on the fund business to investors real estates, etc. expand sales, which were previously conducted through Project finance for Social, environmental project-based syndications mainly in the areas of infrastrucinfrastructures infrastructures renewable Distribution to Infrastructures renewable ture, real estate, and healthcare fields. The fund connects the energies,etc. institutional energies, etc. investors operating funds invested by institutional investors to infraReal estate Syndication Real estates Environmental structure projects. finance real estate Diversification Healthcare Healthcare Assets that solve finance Funds assets social issues • Sustainability focus ABLs We will develop a sustainability and ESG evaluation system Project bonds Environmentally Ship and Ships and aviation finance aircrafts compliant ships and develop our business based on this system. The newly and aircrafts established “Sustainable Impact Development Division” will *1 Real asset type: Targets real estate and infrastructure assets lead to integrating the concepts of social impact and sustain*2 A lternative: Alternative investments targeting assets different from traditional assets such as listed stocks and bonds ability with Institutional Business as a whole. 28 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Productivity Reforms The Shinsei Bank Group has been implementing productivity reforms in earnest since the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, which covers the period from fiscal 2016 to 2018 and it has reached the third stage. The first stage is “Reducing Expenses and Workload,” the second stage is to “Improve Earnings Structure,” and we will further promote the Akira Hirasawa Senior Managing Executive Officer, revolution in the third stage “Enhance and Leverage Our capabilities.” Overseeing Group Organization Strategy Enhance and leverage our capabilities Three Specific Measures Creating a Positive Impact on Society We aim to maximize management resources through a Group• Branch optimization wide organizational structure that leverages diverse human The Lake ALSA promotes digital shift that meets the lifestyles resources with specialized expertise and a highly productive of our customers, especially smartphones, and is implementoperating structure. In order to adapt to big environmental ing measures aimed at raising awareness. At Shinsei Bank’s changes, we will actively incorporate digital technology to staffed branches, we will reduce the number of branches and increase productivity and create a robust operational structure. improve efficiency while maintaining physical contact with customers in a five-area coverage structure. Productivity Reforms • Implementation of cost structure reforms Optimized 1 Branch Optimization We will focus on the cost structure reforms in the IT sector where we were unable to fully implement reforms in the first Utilize digital More efficient Our Innovation Stories stage. Currently, we are working to expand the use of the 2 Cost Structure Reforms technology operations management resources cloud to consolidate eight data centers. In addition, we will integrate the Group IT operations and aim for Group-wide 3 Operational Innovations system management. • Operational innovations We will improve the convenience of both customers and Advantages Flexibility & speed No restraints employees by digitizing business processes and operations of the Shinsei Bank Group Group-integrated management using digital technology. In addition, we will create a more comfortable working environment by developing an operating environment and implementing a human resources system Strong Flexible Support to respond to diverse workstyles. To the realization of “Enhance / Leverage our Capabilities” Business Process / Operations Digitization More efficient operations Added value Achieving productivity reforms RPA • Automated operations • Longer serving time Over the three-year period of this medium-term management equivalent to 100,000 hours • More efficient operations strategy, we will achieve an improvement effect of ¥6 billion. • Reduced administrative We will take measures aimed at improving mediumto longerrors term productivity by leveraging the Shinsei Bank Group’s IVR, PD, • Reduced inbound / • Effective collection characteristics of “flexibility and speed,” “no restraints” that Chatbot outbound call workload calls • Also contributed to space does not belong to any specific capital affiliation and does not reduction Data Section need to stick with a specific region, and “group-integrated E-order • Reduced workload • Reduced burden on management,” which is unified while taking advantage of the (Shopping credit) equivalent to 240,000 hours member merchants / customers characteristics of each group company. IVR=Interactive Voice Response PD=Predictive Dialer (Automated inbound / outbound calling system) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 29 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Medium-Term Strategies Finance Message from Chief Officer of Group Finance We fulfill our responsibilities as a financial institution that is a part of social infrastructure, and aim to increase corporate value over the medium to long term by contributing to our customers and society. Shoichi Hirano Chief Officer, Group Corporate Planning and Finance Fiscal 2019 Results and Impact of COVID-19 Consolidated 18.4-19.3 19.4-20.3 (Actual) 19.4-20.3 (Billions of yen) (Actual) Without COVID-19 Impact of COVID-19 With COVID-19 (Initial Plan) Total Revenue 229.7 241.6 -1.7 239.9 243.0 Net Interest Income 133.8 133.5 0 133.5 Noninterest Income 95.9 108.1 -1.7 106.4 Expenses -144.7 -149.5 0 -149.5 -152.0 Ordinary Business Profit (OBP) 84.9 92.1 -1.7 90.4 91.0 -3.1 (apparent) Net Credit Costs -29.3 -32.1 -39.1 -35.0 -3.9 (precautionary) OBP after Net Credit Costs 55.6 59.9 -8.7 51.2 56.0 Others -3.3 -5.8 0.2 -5.6 -3.0 Income Taxes -2.5 -4.2 0.2 -4.0 Profit Attributable to Owners 52.3 54.0 -8.5 45.5 53.0 of the Parent Total revenue amounted to ¥239.9 billion, up from fiscal 2018. ed income due to COVID-19. Of total revenue, net interest income increased in instituExpenses increased year on year mainly reflecting depretional business year on year but was flat in unsecured loans ciation expenses associated with the new core banking business and APLUS FINANCIAL while having no financial system. Expenses-to-revenue ratio improved from 63% in impact from COVID-19. Noninterest income increased year fiscal 2018 to 62.3% in fiscal 2019. on year in institutional businesses as well as in retail banking Net credit costs increased year on year reflecting several and APLUS businesses. In Institutional Business, noninterest factors such as absence of credit recoveries in the Strucincome was negatively impacted due to impairment losses tured Finance business, and additional provisioning related to equity investments and nonrealization of expectconsidering apparent impact from COVID-19. 30 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group There are three reasons for higher net credit costs recordImpact of COVID-19 on Our Businesses and ed in Institutional Business. First, absence of credit reserve Performance reversal of approximately ¥6.0 billion due to revision of With regard to the business environment, first, even after the general reserve for loan losses in fiscal 2018 for project state of emergency is lifted, the maintenance of social-disfinance transactions etc. Second, additional provisioning of tancing requirements will be prolonged and business ¥3.1 billion was recorded in Structured Finance portfolios activities will only begin to recover from the second quarter considering apparent impact from COVID-19. Third, addiof fiscal 2020. Additionally, it will take time for the inboundtional precautionary provisioning of ¥3.9 billion was taken as tourism related industries, hospitalities, restaurants, and other Creating a Positive Impact on Society we applied a higher reserve ratio than the regular general service industries to recover as well as for the disrupted reserve ratio to specific categories, anticipating deteriorasupply chain to resume. The credit condition of related SMEs tion in financial position of these types of borrowers in the and individuals is expected to deteriorate. The key to the future due to COVID-19. Net credit costs in unsecured loans negative time-horizon effect is the timing of the development remained almost flat, reflecting sluggish loan growth and of efficacious therapeutics and vaccines. Second, in the enhancement of collection. Net credit costs in APLUS process of recovery, total restoration is unlikely, and irreversFINANCIAL decreased due to the absence of impact on ible changes will occur, such as changes in consumer mindset additional reserve for delinquent loans recorded in the and behavior, the transition to a decentralized society, accelprevious fiscal year. eration of digital investment, review of supply chains, review Profit attributable to owners of the parent for fiscal 2019 of physical space utilization, etc. Third, regarding real estate Our Innovation Stories was ¥45.5 billion, reflecting the impact of COVID-19. It prices, the search for new price levels (rent multiplied by would have been ¥54.0 billion excluding the COVID-19 expected yield) based on the COVID-19 experience will impact of ¥8.5 billion. continue, but the extent of the adjustment (price decline) by asset type is expected to be disproportionate. Performance in Fiscal 2020 Regarding the Shinsei Bank Group’s performance, reveThe net income forecast for fiscal 2020 is yet to be deternue from many existing businesses including core businesses, mined as it was hard to reasonably estimate the impact of such as real estate finance and unsecured loan businesses, COVID-19 as of May 13, 2020, the day the full-year financial are expected to decline to a certain extent as business results for fiscal 2019 were announced. If COVID-19 hadn’t activities are to be subdued. However, we do not think a occurred, we estimate that our net income for fiscal 2020 sharp decrease would happen as needs for new finance and would have grown by approximately 2% from the fiscal 2019 new businesses will be generated. Regarding risk profile, in Strong Flexible Support initial target of ¥53 billion. comparison to other financial groups, our business portfolio We expect the single fiscal-year business plan will be is not directly linked to the macroeconomics of Japan as a revised in response to uncertainty and changes in the whole or a certain region. In addition, portfolio reallocation environment. However, the mediumto long-term strategies and risk management have been strengthened since the and directions outlined in the Medium-Term Management global financial crisis. With regard to net credit costs, we Strategy remain unchanged. We should work on these accumulated a reserve to prepare for a deterioration in the strategies with a further accelerated time horizon than business conditions of our business partners in fiscal 2019, originally envisaged. The Bank will disclose its earnings but we will closely monitor the situation regarding the forecasts as soon as it becomes possible to make those possibility of further credit costs due to deterioration in the forecasts after carefully examining the future economic quality of our receivables, such as collection, delinquency, Data Section conditions and their impact on our business activities. and default. We are paying close attention to real estate finance business and unsecured loans. In real estate finance, we expect a decline in fees due to a substantial decline in new loans and an increase in net credit SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 31 Our Innovation Stories Medium-Term Management Strategy Medium-Term Strategies Finance costs due to a decline in real estate value. However, as long as an increase in net credit costs due to a deterioration in real estate prices, such as office buildings and residential propdelinquencies, particularly among low-income customers. erties, which are major asset types, do not decline significantly, However, we should recognize that this may be partially offit is difficult to anticipate significant negative impacts. set by the reduction in net credit costs growth due to the Unsecured loans are expected to see a decline in interest slowdown in the loan growth. income growth due to a slight decline in new customers and Response to COVID-19, Considerations of Possible Impact on Businesses Major Business Focus Points Structured finance: • Possibility of large decline in new loan originations (lower fee income) real estate finance • Increase in net credit costs due to decrease in real estate price. However, the negative impact would be limited unless major asset prices such as offices and residential drop significantly (No significant impact on probability of collection even if real estate asset price drops by 30-40%) Unsecured loans • Possibility of lower interest income reflecting slight downturn in growth of new customers • Increase in net credit costs due to delinquent loans of lower income segment. However, “increase in net credit costs due to bad debt” might be partly offset by “decrease in net credit costs resulting from sluggish loan growth” Showa Leasing • Possibility of lower deal volume (lower leasing income) and lower fees including insurance related fees • Possibility of higher net credit costs from SMEs mainly in service industries APLUS FINANCIAL • Possibility of slightly lower transaction volumes in shopping credit (auto and others) and credit cards • Possibility of increase in net credit costs due to delinquent loans of lower income segment. However, “increase in net credit costs due to bad debt” might be partly offset by “decrease in net credit costs resulting from sluggish loan growth” Retail banking • Possibility of decrease in sales volume of asset management products • Possibility of increase in net credit costs due to possible rescheduling of housing loan repayments Structured finance: • Lower fees reflecting slight decrease in new arrangements (lower fee income). However, longer timeframe required project finance from commitment to disbursement would result in limited impact on asset growth and interest income • Neutral to a decline in oil price as we do not undertake price risks in natural resources related deals Others • Lower capital gains due to postponement of the scheduled exit from our equity investments Capital Policy up to 50% compared to net income of ¥45.5 billion in fiscal Cost of Equity 2019. This figure is calculated by adding ¥10 per share (total The Bank recognizes that capital efficiency, meaning profitdividend: ¥2.3 billion) to the ¥20.5 billion of share buyback ability to capital, needs to be enhanced and per share program. Considering ample capital adequacy, we believe values need to be increased through efforts to strengthen that current share price does not reflect fair corporate value. earning power and boosting the Bank’s corporate value in The share buyback program has been determined considerthe medium to long term. At the same time, the Bank has ing total shareholder return policy as outlined in the received an injection of public funds, which requires the Revitalization Plan which stipulates that we will continue to accumulation of a public fund repayment source. aim to maintain and improve our shareholder return, taking Recognizing this, the Shinsei Bank Group needs to maxiinto consideration the level of the general total shareholder mize the absolute amount of profit, while securing a certain return ratio of Japanese domestic banks. However, considlevel of capital in order to generate an appropriate return ering extraordinary uncertainty due to COVID-19, the against cost of equity in the medium to long term. execution of the buyback program will be judged in terms of its feasibility, amount and/or timing depending on exterShareholder Return Policy nal environments and our share price as well as earnings In fiscal 2019, we repurchased ¥23.5 billion of our shares conditions. As a result, there is a possibility of not being based on fiscal 2018 operating results. The total shareholder able to fully execute the total amount of the buyback proreturn ratio including the share buyback program and yeargram. This does not make any reference to future total end dividend for fiscal 2019 was 50%. shareholder return ratio. In fiscal 2020, we announced a total shareholder ratio of 32 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Investors’ FAQ Q In August 2019, largest shareholder, JCF funds comQ Please tell us about the trend of Shinsei Bank’s share pleted liquidation of its investment to Shinsei Bank. In price changes. addition, J. Christopher Flowers resigned as the outside director of the Bank. Please explain the impact of the A The Bank’s share price was favorably moved as a result capital events on Shinsei’s corporate governance. of the steady implementation of the Shinsei Bank Group’s Medium-Term Management Plan and the strengthening of A The JCF funds, a major shareholder, exited its investits distinctive business portfolios of unsecured loans and ment in the Bank through a third-party allotment in August structured finance, in addition to recovering from the global 2019. The offering totaled ¥63.3 billion, and the number of financial crisis. The negative interest rate policy announced Creating a Positive Impact on Society shares offered was 45 million. The transaction was successin January 2016 temporarily caused TOPIX Banks and TOPIX fully completed by selling shares primarily to overseas Other Financing Business to decline significantly, but the institutional investors and domestic individual investors. Bank’s share prices overperformed toward those of TOPIX, Immediately after the offering was announced, share TOPIX Banks and TOPIX Other Financing Business. We price fell temporarily due to concerns about supply and recognize that this reflects our business portfolio, centered demand for our shares. However, the offering itself was a on unsecured loans and structured finance, as these busicapital transaction that was neutral from the value per share nesses are relatively less affected by negative interest rates perspective. First, there is no effect on the denominator of than other banks. At the end of 2018, the Bank’s share prices value per share as it does not involve dilution of shares. fell sharply due to concerns over a slowdown in the U.S. Second, there is no impact on the numerator of value per economy and a drop in Japanese stocks, particularly finanshare as the JCF funds did not have any direct involvement cial sector stocks, stemming from a sharp rise in U.S. interest Our Innovation Stories in conducting day-to-day business or financial operations. rates. The majority of the Bank’s Board of Directors is composed In fiscal 2019, together with the Medium-Term Manageof outside directors with diverse expertise. In addition, the ment Strategy, the Bank’s share price recovered, reflecting its Board of Directors, other than Mr. Flowers, have been capital policy of maintaining and improving the total shareactively communicating with the Bank’s management both holder ratio. Stock prices declined in 2020 as a result of the within committee meetings and outside committee meetworldwide spread of COVID-19 and the turmoil in the real ings. As a result, we do not believe that his resignation economy. However, compared with March 2010, the share affects the Bank’s corporate governance. prices of Shinsei Bank is outperforming those of TOPIX Considering high ratio of subscriptions to the offering and Banks. the removal of the overhang, the share price has recovered to the level prior to the announcement of the offering. Strong Flexible Support Shinsei Bank Share Price: Relative Performance (Stock Market Indexes from March 2010) (%) 2020.3 250 Spread of COVID-19 and stay-at-home measures 200 150 2011.3 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami 100 Data Section 2016.1 Announcement of negative interest rate policy 50 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Shinsei Bank TOPIX TOPIX Banks TOPIX Other Financing Business SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 33 Our Innovation Stories Implementing Digital Strategies The Future of Finance and IT The Shinsei Bank Group’s Challenge Digital strategies are tools for realizing “Redesigning Finance.” The Shinsei Bank Group incorporates digital approaches into its business strategies and provides new value to customers. At the same time, as an organizational foundation that supports our business, we are cultivating IT personnel and ensuring cyber security that protects the financial system from cyber attacks. Digital Strategies in the Shinsei Bank Group Deployment of Digital Strategies in Business Strategy In API Strategy, we will utilize our API platform to deepen our self-contained businesses by providing channels and apps to tailor customers’ needs and providing products and services by collaborating within the Shinsei Bank Group. We will also develop value co-creation businesses by providing financial functions to FinTech companies and platformers, and by creating unique ecosystems centered on the Shinsei Bank Group. The Data Strategy supports self-contained businesses and value-creating businesses by utilizing data in marketing and credit screening. Productivity Reforms We will work to improve the efficiency of business processes and operations using digital tools, and to reform the IT expense structure using the cloud. Aspects of DX in the Society Major Initiatives Transformation of Omni Experience Deploy in the business strategies (API strategy) Development of Shinsei API platform and its utilization to address each business PowerDirect App of the self-contained model and value co-creation model Development of API HUB Transformation of Operation Model Seeking to utilize business in collaboration Deploy in the business strategies (Data strategy) Business utilization of data Data utilization areas and their deployment in each business Transformation of Information of the self-contained model and value co-creation model Deploy in productivity enhancement Reform of IT cost structure IT cost structure reform utilizing digital technologies and Transformation of Workforce Resource platforms, and the introduction of digital tools Value Co-Creation Model Evolution of Self-Contained Model Providing functions to other companies’ businesses Developing value co-creation business • Providing channels through UI / UX • Provision of APIs (balance inquiry and remittance) • Creation of businesses through unique tailored to customers to settlement and FinTech business operators ecosystems, such as foreigners and small • Flexible collaboration within the Group • Provision of loans and financial products businesses Customers Customers in the Shinsei Bank Group Customers out of the Shinsei Bank Group Partners, Settlement Service Electronic Settlement Platformer etc. Ecosystem for Channels Shinsei’s System Providers Services Operators BANKIT ® Foreigners Operator OAuth Open API Small-Scale Finance Management API HUB Platform API Platforms Deposits Investments Loans Domestic Foreign (Microservices) ATM Credit Prepaid Shopping remittances remittances Cards Credit Core System, Bank YUI Platform DWH Shinsei Financial APLUS FINANCIAL Data Platform 34 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Digital Transformation Business (DX) Case Study About the Shinsei Bank Group Initiatives of the Neobank Platform “BANKIT®” The Shinsei Bank Group began offering the Neobank Platform Retailers Manufacturers IT Service Providers “BANKIT®” to our partner companies who have been considering entry to the financial and settlement business. BANKIT®, a Neobank Platform, provides financial services such as the Shinsei Bank Group’s payment, exchange, and credit API API API functions to partner companies in a cafeteria format through its Open API infrastructure. BANKIT® is operated by APLUS Co., Examples Ltd. with a registered license of fund transfer business and Wallet Prepaid, Code Deferred prepaid payment issuing business. APLUS accounts settlements payment Partner companies can use BANKIT® to provide financial Creating a Positive Impact on Society ATM (deposits Shinsei Bank Remittance Deposits and withdrawals) services to their customers without the burden and expense of Shinsei obtaining financial licensing. Lending Financial Points Others Coupon Stocks Insurance • To reduce the pain points when partner companies enter the financial business • To obtain a license • Building systems and operations Neobank Platform • Provides highly flexible financial services such as financial services platforms, and settlement and credit • Supporting customer contact points and actual operation • Initiatives in which the Shinsei Bank Group companies cooperate to bring their respective strengths to fruition Our Innovation Stories Through the provision of BANKIT® services, we will leverage the Shinsei Bank Group’s financial licensing, financial and payment systems to collaborate with partner companies and FinTech companies that have a customer base, to develop the financial and payment services needed for the next generation, and provide new financial experiences. Examples of BANKIT® Systems Offered to Partner Companies BANKIT® is a new financial services. Example of One wallet account supports a wide variety of functions, This system supports customers’ entry into the Services including withdrawal from ATMs and sending money. financial and settlement businesses and co-creates new value and business models.  Wallet accounts  TM transactions (deposits A  Remittances and withdrawals) without card Only necessary items can be picked up from a variety of services, and there is no need to invest Strong Flexible Support large amounts in systems or acquire various financial licenses. So it’s low-cost and speedy, as never before. Now, let’s create an exciting business future together! Example of Equipped with a variety of payment functions, which can be Services used not only in code settlements but also in VISA, etc.  Code Settlements  VISA Settlements Cards can be issued to the customers who desire them, so that they can use the cards at VISA member stores around the world as well as online Planning contactless (touch) payments Data Section SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 35 Our Innovation Stories Digital Implementing Digital Strategies Transformation Human Resources (DX) The Future of Finance and IT Digital Personnel Strategy and Security Who What Kind of Digital Talent/Data Scientists Does the Shinsei Bank Group Have? Job Description To provide value to customers through the Shinsei Bank Group’s products, services and experiences, the Group Data Strategy Department analyzes and utilizes financial data of Group companies and promotes coordination with the behavioral data of partner companies. The Group Data Strategy Department’s vision is to “embody a finance that is motivated by data.” It collects and analyzes data on a daily basis and promotes the business utilization. Members comprise a variety of human resources with different skills and background experiences, including strategic consultants, system engineers, and actuaries. Through the planning and development of machine learning models for business projects, we are enhancing our skills in practical business understanding and problem solving. Mid-career recruitment Mr. Yusuke Imai Adopting a hackathon approach Mr. Taishi Watanabe I feel that there is a very good environment balI feel a great sense of reward when I am able ancing personal growth and contribution. As a to formulate findings and statistical models system engineer, I worked on database conderived from my analysis. Before joining Shinstruction and web app development, so while I was confident sei Bank, I was studying the theory of machine learning in in engineering, I wanted to acquire business problem solving graduate school, and I began thinking that I didn’t want to be and data science skills in my next career. In current jobs, I can limited to theory and I wanted to be able to give back to socilearn and develop these skills from other outstanding memety. In the Group Data Strategy Department, I need to consider bers, and in addition, I can contribute to our business while every aspect in fields such as statistics, business, and engineermaking use of our expertise in engineering, so that the two ing. I am happy to be in a work environment that provides perceptions of that experience lead to satisfaction. opportunities to be involved in projects in these fields. How How Does the Shinsei Bank Group Acquire Human Resources for FinTech and Data Analytics? About Hackathon Amid intensifying competition for recruitment of IT personnel, the Shinsei Bank Group is implementing a unique initiative called “Shinsei Hackathon.” The Shinsei Hackathon is a data analysis contest designed to provide university and graduate students interested in data science with practical analysis opportunities using business data. Participants use the latest machine learning methods to compete on model precision and the novelty and evoluHackathon tion of ideas in developing models that predict the probability of credit losses Comments from external judge of customers one year after their application for card loan products. Mr. Takashi Miyakoshi Participants experience the difficulty and fun of understanding the use Director, The Japan DataScientist Society of real data by financial institutions and developing models that are used To become a leading data scientist, you in actual businesses. The Shinsei Bank Group is also contributing to the need experience in resolving business development of human resources for future data science while gaining the issues using real data. The Shinsei Hackathon provides valuable opportunities not fresh analytical perspective of students. only for Shinsei Bank, but also for the Hackathon: A term that is combined from the words “hack” and “marathon.” This term development of data scientists in Japan. refers to an event in which a team of programmers, designers, and others typically engage in intensive work on a given theme for a predetermined period of time and compete with each other for the outcome. 36 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Digital Work Transformation Style (DX) “Redesign” of Working Styles Using Digital Technology About the Shinsei Bank Group Example 1 Utilization of Telecommuting • Telework System The Shinsei Bank Group introduced a telework system in April 2018. Employees can now work at home or at a designated satellite office in accordance with their work styles and circumstances. • Communications Using Teams App As a digital tool supporting telework, employees use laptop computers to conduct videoconferencing and teleconferencing using Microsoft Teams. We strive to communicate in the same environment as when working at the office, irrespective of the workplace. • Utilization of Telework System Creating a Positive Impact on Society The teleworkers increased from 9.5% in fiscal 2018 to 70.3% in fiscal 2019 (Shinsei Bank only). Since the beginning of 2020, we have been further promoting telework system to protect employees and their families from the spread of the COVID-19 infection. Example 2 Utilization of AI Automatic Translation Tool In fiscal 2019, we introduced an AI automatic translation tool. By replacing human translation work with machines, we are allocating this time to other business hours to improve productivity and at the same time contributing to the reduction of translation costs. Keep Ensuring Cyber Security Our Innovation Stories The Shinsei Bank Group considers cyber security to be a management Response to Security Management by the Shinsei Group materiality, as well as providing customers and partner companies with highly convenient financial access. At the same time, it ensures Attacker the safe and secure use of the social infrastructures of finance. • DDoS attack • Website falsification • Targeted e-mail attack • Management of Cyber Security • Illegal transfer To strengthen measures against cyber attacks, which are becoming Cyber attacks increasingly sophisticated year by year, we have established the Group Cyber Security Guidelines and are working to strengthen management The Shinsei Bank Group of information security across the Group, through management-led efforts such as sharing information on new ways of attack and vulneraStrong Flexible Support Cooperation with external specialist organizations bility, checking the status of measures against information systems, • Gathering the latest cyber attack modus operandi regularly training employees throughout the company, and monitoring • Gathering vulnerability information fraudulent remittances. Implementation of measures against cyber • The Risks Associated with Cyber Security Are as Follows attacks on information systems • Shutdown of the information system • Checking the implementation status of cyber • Leaking of confidential information attack countermeasures • Implementing cyber attack countermeasures • Illegal transactions such as illegal withdrawals • Monitoring of illegal remittances • Training and Education for Cyber Security Training and education In addition to protecting and detecting cyber attacks on information • Exercises using cyber-attack scenarios Data Section systems, we are working to improve the awareness and response of • Training for employees • E-learning training cyber security among our employees by conducting periodic cyber attack training in collaboration with external specialized agencies. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 37 Our Innovation Stories Individual Business In the retail banking field, we are developing multiple consulting channels, one-to-one marketing that utilizes behavioral data, and construction of a framework for organizational management by customer segment and other efforts. We are working to ensure stable asset building for our customers by communicating optimally with each customer and providing products and services tailored to their needs and life plans. In the credit card and payment fields, the competitive environment is intensifying by the entry of non-financial platformers and financial innovations. By applying APLUS FINANCIAL’s BtoBtoC business model, we provide BANKIT®, a neobank platform equipped with financial Tetsuro Shimizu Managing Executive Officer, functions such as payment, exchange transactions, and Head of Individual Business Unit lending, to our partner companies and their customers through smartphone apps and APIs. In unsecured loans field, we provide financial access to The Individual Business provides retail banking busicustomer segments that prefer non-face-to-face digital nesses, including deposits, investment trusts and houstransactions and cardless services, and respond precisely ing loans; unsecured loans; and credit card, shopping to customers’ funding needs. By adding AI and digital credit and payment services for individual customers. technologies to the credit screening and collection functions that we have cultivated, and by forming alliances with companies with a customer base, we are working to L Business risks and opportunities based on an meet the financial needs of new customer segments. awareness of the environment Responding to changes in consumer behavior caused by the declining birthrate and the aging of society, and diversifying lifestyles, using digital tools to support individual customers’ mediumto long-term asset-building activities is the Bank’s role in resolving social issues and creating business opportunities. Operating Assets Retail Banking Unsecured Loans APLUS FINANCIAL (Asset Under Management) (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) 6 5.90 5.68 5.71 600 1.5 524.0 524.3 528.0 1.23 1.11 4 400 1.0 1.03 2 200 0.5 0 0 0 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 38 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 What is Small-Scale Finance? About the Shinsei Bank Group Core Customers Value Co-Creation Individuals and small businesses 3 Build / participate in ecosystems, share data to better understand our customers Product / Service Lineup • Provide functions (credit assessment, guarantees, collection, paySmall-size, high-frequency credit and ments etc.) based on partner needs payment transactions: • Share and use customer data and know-how • Unsecured loans, shopping credit • Serve foreign nationals and freelancers • Credit guarantee, rent guarantee • Credit cards, prepaid cards Strengthen core capabilities, integrate with payment platforms 2 • Other cashless payments • Utilize AI / RPA to analyze data and streamline operations Creating a Positive Impact on Society • Deploy all-in-one platform for payments, credit assessment and Our Capabilities other services • Large and diverse customer portfolio • Strong analytical capabilities for marketing, credit assessment and Self-Contained Model loan collection • Stable operations 1 Streamline and speed-up existing processes • Scale up multi-payment services to meet increasing cashless payments • Gather outside UI / UX expertise Our Innovation Stories Topics Established Credd Finance to provide credit services to foreign residents In January 2020, the Shinsei Bank Group announced the establishment of Credd Finance Ltd., a new company with Seven Bank, Ltd., to provide credit services to foreign residents. As one aspect of ongoing globalization, an increasing number of foreigners are working in Japan each year and their needs for credit transactions such as loans in addition to the remittance overseas are increasing. Credd Finance is preparing to provide new credit services, such as loans and credit cards, by leveraging Seven Bank’s customer base of foreigners and APLUS’s know-how in finance for individual customers. We strive for the creation of fair access to financial opportunities for non-Japanese customers (financial inclusion) and contribute to the realization of multiculturalism from the corporate side. Strong Flexible Support Key Financial Data Retail Banking Unsecured Loans APLUS FINANCIAL (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 30 57.8 58.2 26.9 28.3 80 60 69.2 68.3 60 20 40 40 10 Data Section 20 20 21.2 19.5 0 -0.6 0.3 3.1 4.2 -5 0 0 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 Total Revenue OBP after Net Credit Costs SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 39 Our Innovation Stories Individual Business Unsecured Loan Business Lake ALSA Strengths and Strategies • Development of customer base and customer data using major consumer finance brand Lake • Use of conventional scoring models derived from nonbank credit-risk control methods, plus use of AI to enhance credit assessment / collection • Optimization of operation costs using digital technology • Fixed-term, no-interest loans for new customers 1. Customers with a contract amount under ¥2 million, no interest for 180 days for loans up to ¥50,000, or 2. 60-day no-interest loan, website application only • Customers’ smartphones can act as a substitute for a branch, enabling them to receive services in real time 24-hours a day. Smartphones can also be used to make repayments, increase credit limits and receive other services without being restricted to time or place. • Loan disbursement and loan repayments are also possible using a card issued especially for this purpose. Beginning in May 2018, customers can make “cardless” transactions at Seven Bank ATMs. N  umber of New Unsecured Loan Customers and Approval Rate Many customers apply on smartphones FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of New 162 113 138 Application Can apply on smartphones 24 hours / day Customers (Thousands) Credit Results of screening shown on smartphone Approval Rate (%) 36 30 30 Screening screen Contract Forms submitted by e-mail Loan No need to visit a branch. Loan disbursed in ­customer’s account The Difference between an Unsecured Loan Service and Cash Advances Unsecured loans are loans to individual consumers providing finance that is appropriate to the needs and timing of customers. The loans are available, even to customers who do not possess a credit card, through the use of smartphones and a dedicated card that can access ATMs at convenience stores and unstaffed branches. Shopping  ajor credit cards / shopping credit M companies Credit Card Cash Advance and Others • JACCS • Orico A cash advance is an additional service • APLUS for a credit card (shopping). and others Unsecured Loan M  ajor unsecured consumer loan companies Unsecured Loan Comparison with cashing: • ACOM 1. Annual membership fee is not required • PROMISE (SMBC Consumer Finance Co., Ltd.) 2. Upper limit of loan is relatively high • AIFUL 3. Installment repayment plan and others 40 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Institutional Business aging of enterprise managers. We recognize the value chain, including not only the Shinsei Bank Group customAbout the Shinsei Bank Group ers, but also our business partners. We aim to provide differentiated solutions by capturing the various needs as opportunities and leveraging our internal and external resources. For institutional customers, we provide solutions that are not limited to the financial sector, pursuing partnership-style businesses that help our customers solve their problems and create new businesses, not only by providing financial services functions within the Group, but also by cooperating with companies outside the Group. For Creating a Positive Impact on Society example, the Shinsei Bank Group and USEN-NEXT Shinichirou Seto Senior Managing Executive Officer, HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. launched a joint financing business Head of Institutional Business Unit to provide APLUS’s financial capabilities to small companies of USEN-NEXT GROUP’s customers. The Institutional Business is composed of the corporate busiIn the structured finance field, we utilize our accumulatness, which provides solutions to our corporate and financial ed relationships, knowledge, and analytical capabilities institution customers; structured finance, which provides serwith institutional investors in Japan and overseas to provices such as real estate finance and project finance; services vide bi-lateral senior loans and arrange syndications with that provide private equity investments and business succesregional financial institutions. In addition, based on the sion finance; the leasing business; and the markets business strong interest of investors in environmental and social Our Innovation Stories which provides market solutions for foreign exchange and issues, we will promote a business for institutional invesinterest rate derivatives, among others. tors that focuses on sustainability for a wide range of institutional investors, including investment managers who L Business risks and opportunities based on an provide funds and asset owners who provide funds to awareness of the environment them. To this end, we established the Sustainable Impact Against the background of the prolonged low-interest Promotion Department in February 2020. The bank will rate environment, the profitability of traditional lending conduct sustainability / ESG assessments of loan and business has been at a low level. On the other hand, new investment projects and provide them with their own financial needs are emerging in line with social issues, assessments to investors. In the future, we will expand the such as environmental and energy issues, and the lifecycle scope of our activities to whole institutional business of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. due to the including institutional customers. Strong Flexible Support Operating Assets Corporate Business Structured Finance Showa Leasing (Trillions of yen) (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) 2.0 2.0 1.89 600 581.0 1.59 1.65 1.64 502.8 490.7 1.57 1.5 1.5 1.39 400 1.0 1.0 Data Section 200 0.5 0.5 0 0 0 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 41 Our Innovation Stories Institutional Business What is Institutional Investor Oriented Business? Core Customers Value Co-Creation • Investment managers sponsoring 3 Provide alternative investment services equity investments • Asset owners such as financial • Investment opportunities for wide variety of institutional investors institutions, pension funds etc. • Senior, mezzanine and equity financing, and advisory services • Enhancing structuring capabilities including debt and equity funds Product / Service Lineup Alternative investment solutions 2 Arrange syndicated loans focusing on real assets (renewable • Partner with regional financial institutions to provide senior loans energy, infrastructure, real estate): • Target assets: Renewable energy, real estate, others • Arrangement, advisory, financing, equity, risk hedging solutions etc. Our Capabilities Self-Contained Model • Expertise in real assets 1 Arrange bilateral structured finance • Our connections with institutional investors • Independently provide senior loans • Structuring know-how using trusts • Target assets: Renewable energy, real estate, others Impact investment fund of the Shinsei Bank Group Topics received the “Tokyo Financial Award 2019 ESG Investment Category” In January 2020, Shinsei Bank Group’s Shinsei Corporate Investment Limited (hereinafter, SCI) received the “Tokyo Financial Award 2019 ESG Investment Category” by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. SCI is involved in the composition and management of the Child-care Support Fund (established in January 2017), the first Japanese bank-affiliated impact investment fund and Japan Impact Investment II Limited Partnership (established in June 2019), the first Japanese bank-affiliated impact investment fund, aiming to create a social-challenge-solving economy. The Japan Impact Investment II targets “child care, nursing, new work style-related business” by companies that contribute to the creation of an environment in which all people can continue to work even after undergoing various life events such as child care and nursing care, provide education and childcare services that contribute to the development of the next generation, and provide support for balancing child-raising and nursing care, receiving funds from a variety of investors, including institutional investors and operating companies. SCI continues to work toward establishing an ecosystem for impact investment in Japan. Key Financial Data Corporate Business Structured Finance Showa Leasing Principal Transactions Markets Business (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 20 18.9 20 19.7 20 20 20 16.7 17.6 15 15 15 14.2 14.4 15 15 12.0 10 10 10 10 9.310.0 10 9.5 7.1 6.2 5 5 4.9 5 4.9 5 5.3 5.7 5 4.0 4.0 3.3 2.7 0 0 0 0 0 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 (FY) 18 19 18 19 Total Revenue OBP after Net Credit Costs 42 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Structured Finance Business About the Shinsei Bank Group The Shinsei Bank Group’s Strengths As neither a megabank nor a regional financial institution, the Shinsei Bank maintains a unique position with the following strengths. • We are better able to tackle projects with a focus on flexibility and speed than megabanks. • We have more expertise and greater analytical skill given our extensive experience than regional financial institutions. • We are able to do business from an independent standpoint with a broad range of customers because we do not belong to a specific capital group. Creating a Positive Impact on Society Create added values from our unique positioning that is different New Commitments New Disbursements from both megabanks and regional financial institutions Project Finance Real Estate Nonrecourse Finance Expertise and high Flexibility and (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) analytical skills mobility that can be 400 400 based on extensive realized only by a 355.9 experience small-sized bank 300 300 Cooperation with Tailor-made regional financial structuring and 200 196.4 200 institutions provision of finance Our Innovation Stories 100 100 Neutral position not Relationships with belonging to any regional financial major corporate 0 0 institutions groups / Networks (FY) 17 18 19 (FY) 17 18 19 with investors globally Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Product Structure The Structured Finance Business primarily delivers project finance for renewable energy power generation facilities and infrastructure facilities, and provides real estate finance for commercial real estate. Strong Flexible Support Special-purpose company (SPC) Power company Electricity sale contract Nonrecourse Bank, etc. loan Products and services purchaser Sale Equity Sponsor Data Section Tenant Lease contract SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 43 Strong Flexible Support Interview with Outside Director ~About the Nomination and Compensation Committee Jun Makihara Outside Director Chairperson, Nomination and Compensation Committee Regarding the nomination of candidates for direcwomen on our board. We have board members who have tors, please explain the nomination process, the experience in running businesses, finance, IT, legal and committee’s policies (such as the required skills regulatory, and accounting. A number of board members and the balance of the skill portfolio) and discushave extensive international experience. Although Shinsei’s business is largely domestic, I feel it is particularly sion in the committee. important that our board understands international trends (many of the trends affecting Japanese banks have started abroad), and also what our foreign shareholders are thinking. As the Shinsei Bank has a significant majority of outside One area that we have discussed but find particularly directors and auditors, we have the flexibility to select a difficult is finding younger board members (40s or even group of board members who each bring a different set below). I feel there is a whole level of discussion and social of skills relevant to overseeing the bank’s management, perception that we miss by not having the next generaoperations, and long-term strategy. tion represented on the board, but this has been very difOur auditors and board members participate fully in the ficult. If any reader has suggestions, we welcome them! Board meetings and executive sessions together and are In terms of nominations, the challenge is paying attentreated as one group, so in this discussion I will refer to tion to an ongoing search for and recruiting of new board them together as “the Board.” members. There is a natural turnover at the board, and We have also appointed senior advisors, who attend over time the needed skills will also change. But we canevery Board meeting and executive session, and who not suddenly come up with a good candidate when there bring additional wisdom and perspective to our discusis an opening. So, we have to continually be on the looksions. Although they do not have a formal vote, their out. To date, all of our board members have come advice is treated equally to board members. through introductions from existing board members. This We do not have a detailed policy as to qualifications for has been an advantage, I feel, because one of the most a director. What we have is common sense. The most important things is to have a board that works well important quality we look for is, of course, general experitogether and works well with management. So the “fit” of ence in business, finance, and government, and a willinga new board member is crucial, and it helps to have a canness to speak up. Beyond that, we value a diversity of didate introduced by someone who knows both the curexperience. For example, we have a high percentage of rent board and management, and the candidate. 44 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Regarding the compensation structure for execuadvice and support to the CEO, for example. Here again, About the Shinsei Bank Group tive directors and outside directors, please elabothe diverse experience of our board, and our willingness rate on the discussion points and actual discussion to speak up honestly is key. at the committee. We do not have a detailed policy as to what standards we would apply or the procedures we would follow in appointing or dismissing the CEO. What is important We are mindful that our compensation policies (including again is common sense: 1) we regularly discuss amongst that of the board) must reflect the fact that we are the the outside directors whether we feel Kudo-san is doing a recipient of taxpayer funding that has not yet been good job (he is), and 2) we discuss succession planning for repaid. Also, I should be clear that no director or auditor him several times a year in executive session with him has expressed a feeling that their compensation is inadepresent. Creating a Positive Impact on Society quate. In fact, director compensation is almost never disWe are fortunate to have a CEO who we feel is doing a cussed. The one item that has surfaced several times is very good job. Banking in Japan is an industry where it is whether some portion of our compensation should be currently very difficult to do well. And of course, the curtied to our performance (stock price performance or earnrent COVID-19 crisis is a huge challenge. Despite all of ings growth, for example). Interestingly, there is a disthis, Kudo-san has run the bank well. In addition, the bank agreement amongst our shareholders on this point, with had two distinct challenges at the beginning of Kudosome (mostly foreign) shareholders thinking that incentivsan’s tenure: 1) assisting our largest shareholder, J.C. izing directors to focus on stock price performance is very Flowers & Co. to achieve an exit, and 2) developing a plan important, and other (mostly domestic) shareholders to repay public funds. Regarding the two challenges, J.C. thinking this is a bad idea. I serve on two other boards, Flowers & Co. did exit their position last year, so one chalOur Innovation Stories one (Japanese) that has no stock incentive, and one (forlenge remains. All in all, we are pleased with where we eign) where I have chosen to receive my entire compensaare. tion in stock. I don’t think it has affected my behavior as a As for succession planning, the Board conducts an director. ongoing dialogue with Kudo-san about the process: But after discussion, we have decided, starting this year, potential candidates, training future leaders, pros and to have 25% of compensation for outside directors cons of internal versus external candidates, etc. We again (excluding auditors) paid in restricted stock. I personally benefit here also from having a board with a broad varidon’t think this will affect our behavior or discussions at ety of experience that includes seeing CEO succession the Board, but I look forward to seeing how it goes. planning that has been successful and less successful. I would like to close by saying that no set of written rules or procedures can guarantee a good outcome for Strong Flexible Support any of the above questions. The most important thing is Regarding the appointment and dismissal of repreto have a board that works well together and works well sentative directors, please outline the committee’s with the CEO. Above all, a board and CEO that have an policies (required qualities, etc.) and succession open and honest dialogue is the key to successful corpoplans. rate governance. Corporate governance experts are fond of saying that the most important decision a board can make is hiring and firing the CEO. This may be true, but it is a rare occurData Section rence, and there are many things we do working with the CEO that I think are just as important. The day-to-day SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 45 Strong Flexible Support Corporate Governance Four Features of Shinsei Bank’s Corporate Governance Ratio of Outside Directors on the Board of Directors • Five of the seven directors at Shinsei Bank are outside directors and 71.4% comprise a majority of the Board of Directors. • The Bank has maintained a Board structure where outside directors comprise a majority since Shinsei Bank started. • The Bank has submitted the names of seven individuals, including outside Audit & Supervisory Board members as independent officers to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 40% Ratio of Outside Directors with Corporate Executive Experience • Outside directors are well-balanced members with extensive experience and high levels of expertise, such as management, financial, and business-related useful fields including consumer, real estate, and IT, as well as comprehensive knowledge and experience in consulting and academia. • Two of the five outside directors on our Board are or have worked as corporate executives. 28.6% Ratio of Female Directors on the Board of Directors • Two of the seven directors of Shinsei Bank are female directors. • 40% of the total number (10) of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members of the Bank are women. • Diversity & inclusion is one of our most important management strategies, and we are working to promote the empowerment of women in the workplace. Attendance Rate for the Board of Directors 100% • Our directors, including outside directors, attended each meeting of the Board of Directors and engaged in active debate about the Bank’s management and operational execution. • This attendance rate is the average for our directors for eight meetings of the Board of Directors since the June 2019 general meeting of shareholders. 46 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Governance of Shinsei Bank About the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank’s Board of Directors—the Bank’s deciobjective manner fulfilling their roles in providing advice sion-making body for its business management—consists and oversight for executives performing their duties. of seven directors—two full-time directors who are Regarding transactions with parties such as directors, directly responsible for the execution of the Bank’s busithe Bank conducts checks to avoid conflicts of interest nesses and five outside directors who primarily supervise and to maintain the fairness of transactions, and when the Bank’s business execution. necessary, it uses established frameworks for deliberatThe composition of the Board of Directors ensures the ing on such transactions in Board of Directors meetings objectivity and transparency of business management and conducting any necessary follow-ups. and facilitates appropriate management decision-makThrough the auditing of the Bank’s Board of Directors Creating a Positive Impact on Society ing. The current outside directors are a balanced group and business execution by the Audit & Supervisory of executives who bring to the Bank their extensive Board and its members, which are independent from the experience and expertise in a range of fields, including Board of Directors, the Bank seeks to create a strict cordomestic and overseas financial businesses, consumporate governance framework which encourages the er-related businesses, management consulting, and the adoption of optimal and balanced management policies fields of information systems and risk management. reflecting the benefit to stakeholders such as shareholdBacked by this experience and expertise, the outside ers and customers, through which the Bank seeks to directors express their opinions in an independent and enhance its corporate value. Our Innovation Stories Corporate Governance Structure Chart (As of June 17, 2020) General Meeting of Shareholders Appoints Appoints Develops Audits Directors / Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members / Management (5 out of 7 directors are outside directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Strategy; (2 out of 3 members are outside members) Appoints Supervises Inquiries Reports Supervises Structure of Board of Directors Business Nomination and Compensation Committee Executive President & Hideyuki Kudo Execution Directors CEO (Chairperson) Strong Flexible Support Group Internal Audit Division Chief Officer Yoshiaki Kozano Audits Outside Ernest M. Higa Implements Business Execution Directors Yuko Kawamoto Management Jun Makihara Strategy; President & CEO Rie Murayama Executes Business Ryuichi Tomimura Group Executive Committee / Executive Committee / Structure of Audit & Supervisory Board Other Various Committees Audit & Supervisory Shinya Nagata Board Member (Chairperson) Outside Audit & Supervisory Ikuko Akamatsu Board Members Shiho Konno Chief Officers Business Unit Head / Senior Officers Other Executive Officers Data Section Audits Accounting Auditor Business Sections Group Headquarters (Shinsei Bank, Subsidiaries) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 47 Strong Flexible Support Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Hideyuki Kudo Yoshiaki Kozano Ernest M. Higa Yuko Kawamoto Jun Makihara Representative Director, Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director President and Nomination and Nomination and Chairperson, Nomination and Chief Executive Officer Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Chairman of Board Member Member Diversified Experiences and Skills Required for Outside Directors Ryuichi Ernest M. Higa Yuko Kawamoto Jun Makihara Rie Murayama Tomimura Corporate Management Experience Management Outside Director Debt Finance Financial Experience Equity Investment Risk Management Consumer Business Real Estate Other Necessary Business Experience IT / Digital Administration Bureau Comprehensive Consulting Knowledge on Management, Finance, Academia and IT / Digital 48 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Creating a Positive Impact on Society Our Innovation Stories Rie Murayama Ryuichi Tomimura Shinya Nagata Ikuko Akamatsu Shiho Konno Outside Director Outside Director Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Nomination and Nomination and Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Member Member Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Skill Matrix Shinya Nagata Ikuko Akamatsu Shiho Konno Finance Strong Flexible Support Financial Accounting Legal Affairs Data Section SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 49 Strong Flexible Support Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors Outside Directors Hideyuki Kudo Yoshiaki Kozano Ernest M. Higa Representative Director, Director Outside Director President and Chief Executive Officer Nomination and Compensation Chairman of Board Committee Member Ownership: Common shares 23,072 Ownership: Common shares 8,367 Ownership: Common shares 4,286 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Reasons for Nomination Reasons for Nomination Mr. Hideyuki Kudo has an abundant experiMr. Yoshiaki Kozano has a wealth of experiMr. Ernest M. Higa was asked to stand as an ence and insight, focusing on corporate and ence and results, focusing on corporate Outside Director in order to reflect in the risk management operations. Since his operations. Since his appointment in 2017, Bank’s management, his experience and appointment as the president, he has been he has been planning and promoting the deep insight of business for consumers. contributing to improved corporate value by Group’s business strategy as the Chief Officer, establishing and implementing the core Group Business Strategy and contributing to strategies of “enhance/leverage our capabilithe enhancement of corporate value through ties” and “grow through value co-creation” reorganization of the Group and creation of outlined in the Medium-Term Strategies that business opportunities. starts in fiscal 2019. Apr. 1987 Joined The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Ltd. Apr. 1986 Joined The Long-Term Credit Bank of Apr. 1976 Joined Higa Industries Co., Ltd. (Predecessor of Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) Japan, Ltd. (Predecessor of Shinsei Bank, Apr. 1983 President and Chief Executive Officer, May 2001 General Manager, Advisory Department Limited) Higa Industries Co., Ltd. No. II, Investment Banking Division, Nov. 2003 General Manager, Credit Trading Apr. 2008 Board Member, The Tokyo New Business Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Conference (Current) Aug. 2003 Director, Acquisition Group, Aetos Japan, Jul. 2006 Head of Corporate Business Solutions May 2009 Board of Overseers, Columbia Business LLC Sub-Group, Shinsei Bank, Limited School (Current) May 2005 Managing Director, Aetos Japan, LLC Dec. 2007 Head of Principal Transactions SubJun. 2010 Director, JC Comsa Corporation (Current) Jun. 2006 Representative Director, President, MID Group, Shinsei Bank, Limited Mar. 2011 Chief Executive Officer, Wendy’s Japan, Urban Development Co., Ltd. Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer, Head of LLC (Predecessor of Kanden Realty & Principal Transactions Sub-Group, Shinsei Jun. 2013 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Development Co., Ltd.) Bank, Limited Apr. 2015 Chairman, President & Chief Executive Jan. 2007 Vice Chairman, MID Urban Development Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Deputy Officer, Higa Industries Co., Ltd. (Current) Co., Ltd. (Predecessor of Kanden Realty Head of Institutional Group, Shinsei & Development Co., Ltd.) Bank, Limited Sep. 2016 Chairman & Representative Director, Wendy’s Japan K. K. (Current) Jun. 2007 Managing Director, Investments Division, Apr. 2016 Managing Executive Officer, Special Aetos Japan, LLC Assignment (Head of Group Business Apr. 2017 Board of Trustees, Showa Women’s Strategy, Shinsei Bank, Limited) University (Current) Sep. 2010 Managing Executive Officer, Deputy Head of Institutional Group, Shinsei Jun. 2016 Director, APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd. Bank, Limited (Current) Apr. 2011 Managing Executive Officer, Head of Apr. 2017 Chief Officer, Group Business Strategy, Structured Finance Sub-Group, Shinsei Managing Executive Officer, Special Bank, Limited Assignment, Shinsei Bank, Limited Apr. 2013 Managing Executive Officer, Chief Risk Apr. 2018 Chief Officer, Group Business Strategy Officer, Head of Risk Management (Equivalent to Senior Managing Group, Shinsei Bank, Limited Executive Officer) Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Shinsei Jun. 2018 Director, Chief Officer, Group Business Bank, Limited Strategy, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2015 Representative Director, President and (Equivalent to Senior Managing Chief Executive Officer, Shinsei Bank, Executive Officer), Shinsei Bank, Limited Limited (Current) (Current) 50 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group Creating a Positive Impact on Society Jun Makihara Rie Murayama Ryuichi Tomimura Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Chairperson, Nomination and Nomination and Compensation Nomination and Compensation Compensation Committee Committee Member Committee Member Ownership: Common shares 20,000 Ownership: Common shares 0 Ownership: Common shares 0 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Mr. Jun Makihara was asked to stand as an Ms. Rie Murayama was asked to stand as an Mr. Ryuichi Tomimura was asked to stand as Outside Director in order to reflect in the Outside Director in order to reflect in the an Outside Director in order to reflect in the Bank’s management, his extensive knowledge Bank’s management, her wide range of experBank’s management, his extensive experience of finance, and his domestic and international tise based on her experience as Outside and wide range of knowledge including inforexperience. Director at other companies, as well as her mation systems as a management executive Our Innovation Stories knowledge based on her extensive experiand a consultant. ence at an investment bank, particularly related to business and risk-analysis in real estate, mortgage, construction and related sector. Sep. 1981 Joined Goldman Sachs & Co. Nov. 1988 Joined CS First Boston Securities Oct. 1983 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. Nov. 1992 Partner, Goldman Sachs & Co. Mar. 1993 Joined Goldman Sachs Tokyo Branch Oct. 1991 General Manager, Network Integration Nov. 1996 Co-Branch Manager, Goldman Sachs (Predecessor of Goldman Sachs Japan Division, Recruit Co. Ltd. (Predecessor of Tokyo Branch (Predecessor of Goldman Co., Ltd.) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd.) Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.) Nov. 2001 Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Jan. 1994 Managing Partner, Pricewaterhouse Jul. 2000 Chairman of the Board, Neoteny Co., Tokyo Branch (Predecessor of Goldman Consultant Ltd. Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.) Oct. 2002 Managing Director, IBM Business Jun. 2006 Director, Monex Group, Inc. (Current) Jun. 2016 Director, RENOVA, Inc. Consulting Service KK, Vice President, Apr. 2017 Chairman & Representative Director, IBM Corporation Business Consulting Jun. 2011 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Service, Asia Pacific Strong Flexible Support ComTech, Ltd. Sep. 2014 Director, Philip Morris International Inc. Jun. 2017 Director, KATITAS Co., Ltd. Feb. 2004 Representative Director, Senior Executive (Current) Vice President, Japan Telecom Co., Ltd. Jun. 2019 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) (Predecessor of SoftBank Corp.) Jun. 2020 Director, MAEDA CORPORATION Dec. 2007 Representative Director, Managing (Current) Director, RHJ International Japan, Inc. Apr. 2010 Executive Vice President, Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc. Aug. 2012 Director, Plan•Do•See Inc. Jun. 2014 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2015 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Jun. 2016 Executive Vice President, Representative Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc. Jun. 2018 President, Representative Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc. (Current) Data Section May 2020 Director, VECTOR INC. (Current) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 51 Strong Flexible Support Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Newly Appointed Outside Director I am Yuko Kawamoto and I was recently appointed as an Outside Director. For more than 30 years, I have been engaged in the management of financial institutions and their reforms. After working at a bank, I participated in management strategy discussions at a management consulting company, and from the beginning of the 21st century, I had the opportunity to participate in a number of deliberations by the regulatory authorities. Over the past 15 years, I have been in charge of “financial institutions management” and “corporate governance” classes at a graduate school, as well as serving as an outside director and advisor to banks, securities companies, insurance companies, stock exchanges, financial holding companies, and nonbank financial companies. Based on my knowledge and experience, I would like to make every effort as a member of the Board of Directors so that Shinsei Bank can play an active role as a financial innovator and sustainably improve its corporate Yuko Kawamoto value as an individualized boutique bank that differentiates itself from any Newly Appointed Outside Director other financial institutions. I look forward to working with you all. Ownership: Common shares 0 Reasons for Nomination Apr. 1982 Joined the Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. (Predecessor of MUFJ Bank, Ltd.) Sep. 1988 Joined McKinsey & Company, Inc. Ms. Yuko Kawamoto was asked to stand Jul. 2001 Senior Expert, McKinsey & Company, Inc., Tokyo Office as an Outside Director in order to reflect in the Bank’s management, her Apr. 2004 Professor, Waseda Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law (Predecessor of Business and Finance) (Current) wealth of expertise in finance and extensive experience as a management Jun. 2004 Director, Osaka Exchange, Inc. (Predecessor of Japan Exchange Group, Inc.) consultant and professor at university. Jun. 2006 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. Jun. 2013 Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Jun. 2020 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Jun. 2020 Director, SoftBank Group Corp. (Current) Jun. 2020 Director, Panasonic Corporation (Current) 52 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Members About the Shinsei Bank Group Creating a Positive Impact on Society Shinya Nagata Ikuko Akamatsu Shiho Konno Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Ownership: Common shares 2,583 Ownership: Common shares 0 Ownership: Common shares 0 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Reasons for Nomination Reasons for Nomination Mr. Shinya Nagata was asked to stand as an Audit Ms. Ikuko Akamatsu was asked to stand as an Ms. Shiho Konno was asked to stand as an & Supervisory Board Member based on the judgOutside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member ment that he is suitable as a corporate auditor who in order to reflect in the Bank’s audit operain order to reflect in the Bank’s audit operacan play a central role in all areas of corporate tions, her expertise in compliance and tions, her expertise and extensive experience audit. Through his long work experience at Shinsei governance, etc. and to take on the promoas a lawyer, and based on her experience as Our Innovation Stories Bank, Shinya Nagata has gained a deep undertion of diversity, as well as for her professional an outside director at listed companies as well standing of the Group’s business, and with his knowledge and experience as a certified pubas her expertise in corporate governance and extensive knowledge and experience in finance lic accountant and a certified fraud examiner, to take on the promotion of diversity. and accounting, he is able to make useful remarks and extensive experience as a consultant and suggestions at the Board of Directors meetbased on the aforementioned expertise. ings and the Audit & Supervisory Board meetings. Apr. 1981 Joined The Long-Term Credit Bank of Jan. 1995 Joined Showa Ota & Co. (Predecessor of Apr. 1991 Registered Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association Japan, Ltd. (Predecessor of Shinsei Bank, Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) Jun. 2005 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Limited) Dec. 2010 Chief Researcher, Management Training Yahoo Japan Corporation Dec. 2001 General Manager, Financial and and Consulting Division, Institute of Mar. 2008 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Regulatory Accounting Division, Shinsei Management, SANNO University Advanced Softmaterials Inc. Bank, Limited Aug. 2018 Director, TOP’S Inc. (Current) Apr. 2009 Professor, Waseda Law School, Waseda Oct. 2006 General Manager, Group Regulatory Apr. 2019 Senior Researcher, Management Training University Accounting and Tax Division, General and Consulting Division, Institute of Apr. 2014 Member, Committee on Realization of a Manager, Group Financial Projects Management, SANNO University Gender-Equal Society of Japan Strong Flexible Support Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Federation of Bar Associations (Current) Apr. 2009 General Manager, Group Regulatory Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Aug. 2014 Auditor, Japan Corporate Governance Accounting and Tax Division, General Jun. 2020 Director, CAWACHI LTD. (Current) Network Manager, Group Financial Accounting Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Toyo Mar. 2015 Established Shiho Konno Habataki Law Seikan Group Holdings, Ltd. (Current) Office (Current) Sep. 2009 General Manager, Group Regulatory Accounting and Tax Division, Shinsei Jun. 2015 Director, Watami Co., Ltd. Bank, Limited Jun. 2016 Director, Kakaku.com, Inc. Jun. 2010 General Manager, Group Regulatory Jun. 2017 Director, Alfresa Holdings Corporation Accounting and Tax Division, General Jun. 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Manager, Group Financial Accounting Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2018 Director, Monex Group, Inc. (Current) Sep. 2010 Executive Officer, General Manager, Group Regulatory Accounting and Tax Division, General Manager of Group Financial Accounting Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Data Section Oct. 2010 Executive Officer, General Manager, Financial and Regulatory Accounting Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2012 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 53 Strong Flexible Support Corporate Governance Policy for Operation of the Board of Directors The Bank holds strategy sessions to intensively discuss that in order to improve the Bank’s accountability selected agenda items in addition to the six periodic towards its stakeholders, including shareholders, it is Board of Directors’ meetings. In fiscal 2019, the Bank necessary to further enhance objectivity and transparenheld strategy sessions that mainly discussed on human cy of the Board of Directors’ functions related to resources, digital, and business. In the sessions, directors appointment of candidates for directors and decisions and Audit & Supervisory Board members posed numeron directors’ remuneration. In March 2019, the Bank ous questions, provided comments and suggestions established a voluntary Nomination and Compensation from a broader perspective in relation to the explanaCommittee for the purpose of further increasing the tions by executive directors. objectivity and transparency of the functions of the Moreover, to ensure the sharing of their independent Board of Directors. The Nomination and Compensation viewpoints as well as to share detailed information Committee comprises only outside directors. The comregarding business execution with each of the outside mittee consults with the Board of Directors, and directors, the Bank holds regular meetings attended only deliberates on the content of General Meeting of by the outside directors themselves. Shareholders proposals regarding the appointment and The majority of the Bank’s Board of Directors are presdismissal of directors, on matters concerning the ently composed of outside directors (five of the seven appointment and dismissal of representative directors directors are outside directors), ensuring objective and and on matters concerning the compensation of directransparent discussions for appointment of candidates tors, and reports its findings back to the Board of for directors and decisions on the directors’ remuneraDirectors. tion system and their specific remuneration levels. In In order to fulfill its accountability towards stakeholdaddition, from the perspective of “governance” in the ers, Shinsei Bank will make efforts to continually ESG management philosophy, the Bank has concluded strengthen its corporate governance framework. Fiscal 2019 Schedule for the Board Meetings Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on financial Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on interim May Nov. results, AGM* related materials, audit reports, etc.) financial results, etc.) Regularly scheduled Board meeting (held after Jun. Jan. Regularly scheduled Board meeting AGM ends, appointment of president, etc.) Aug. Extraordinary Board meeting Mar. Extraordinary Board meeting Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on fiscal year Sep. Regularly scheduled Board meeting Mar. budget and plan, etc.) * AGM: annual general meeting of shareholders Agenda of the Board Meeting and the Time Required Reporting HR / Compensation Financials Each Audit / Risk Others to CEO Transaction Management Fiscal 2018 11% 22% 32% 15% 11% 9% Fiscal 2019 16% 9% 25% 28% 15% 7% Reporting to CEO HR / Compensation Financials Each Transaction Audit / Risk Management Others 54 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluations About the Shinsei Bank Group The Bank periodically conducts an evaluation/analysis of However, it was confirmed that further study is necessary from the viewpoint of diversity in a broad sense, including skills and the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in order to experiences. improve the Board’s functionality. (d) Management of Board and strategy sessions by executives Following on from the previous fiscal year, we have been making An overview of the fiscal 2019 self-evaluation is as follows. efforts to improve the efficiency of our operations by selecting (1) Objective proposals for an abbreviated explanation, receiving preliminary To improve the function of the Board of Directors by having the questions on materials, and providing brief explanations. As a Board perform a self-evaluation of whether it is fulfilling the result of this fiscal year’s questionnaire, we received the evaluaroles and duties required of it and then implement the PDCA tion that the questionnaire covered important topics and was cycle. largely a forum for deliberate discussion. However, we have con(2) Subjects of analysis/evaluation firmed that the quantity of materials should be improved, so we will strive to achieve more efficient management. The Board’s activities, and the operation and support systems Creating a Positive Impact on Society for efficiently and effectively carrying out such activities. (e) Provision of information to the Board by executives While the explanations at Board of Directors meetings were eval(3) Evaluators uated as having improved, we confirmed that there was room for Evaluation by all members attending Board meetings (Directors, further improvement. As for providing of information, we conAudit & Supervisory Board members and others – totaling 10 firmed that information on risk management and compliance, people). Certain additional questions are only asked to Audit & which was enhanced based on the opinions of the previous evalSupervisory Board members in fiscal 2019. uation, was appropriately provided. On the other hand, we (4) Analysis/evaluation items confirmed the progress of acquisitions and business alliance The content of discussions at Board meetings, the operation of projects, initiatives for promoting the empowerment of women, the Board by the executives, the composition and diversity of and reports on the status of subsidiaries and Group companies members of the Board, the provision of information to the as topics where there was room for improvement and considerBoard by the executives, the content of discussions at strategy ation. Accordingly, we will take into consideration the provision sessions, the management of strategy sessions by executives, of such matters through the Board of Directors, strategy sessions, and other opportunities. communication, the Nomination and Compensation Committee, the necessity of third-party evaluations of the (f) Communication Our Innovation Stories Board’s effectiveness, evaluations by Audit & Supervisory Board It was confirmed that the environment for information sharing members, etc. among outside directors is favorable. We also confirmed the effectiveness of executive sessions made up entirely of outside (5) Means of analysis/evaluation directors. Questionnaire survey (questions in which responses are select(g) Nomination and Compensation Committee ed including free-response questions) prepared by the Since its establishment in March 2019, the committee met 5 secretariat for the Board of Directors based on instructions from times by the end of January 2020. They confirmed that the comthe Board Chairman. position and frequency of meetings of the committee members (6) Results feedback were generally appropriate, and that the committee was a useful The selected results and responses to free-response questions forum for discussion on matters related to nomination and are reported to the Board. remuneration. (h) Third-party evaluation of effectiveness The following is an overview of the key results of the survey. A certain number of opinions have been expressed that there is room for discussion in this regard this fiscal year. We will confirm (a) Contents of Board meeting discussions Strong Flexible Support the intentions of the Board of Directors to consider it. To a certain extent, survey respondents feel that discussions for the mediumto long-term business vision, as well as discussions (g) Questions for Audit & Supervisory Board members for a business model aimed at increasing corporate value and We confirmed that, as a whole, Audit & Supervisory Board memachieving sustainable growth have been constructive and are bers feel that directors are properly executing the duties contributing to an increase in corporate value and sustainable expected of them. growth same as last year. (b) Contents of strategy sessions discussions and effectiveness of The results of the survey were, although there was no the sessions In the fiscal year under review, discussions focused on the three significant difference from the results of the previous themes: human resources, digital, and business. These themes year, highly evaluated as a whole. Therefore, we appreciwere evaluated as appropriate with an emphasis on management issues and business models for sustainable growth. ate that efficient management of the Board of Director Strategy sessions were deemed to be effective for deliberating meetings helped to secure time for important discuson business strategy, and the decision was made to continue to hold the sessions while considering the themes, timing, and fresions. The Bank will also strive to improve and maintain Data Section quency of sessions. the aspects that were evaluated as appropriate or (c) Board composition/diversity improved from the previous year, and work to further Regarding roles and responsibilities, and diversity, including gender and internationality, the appointment of female directors and improve the Board’s effectiveness and function by examcorporate auditors this fiscal year resolved the issue of gender ining and making improvements to issues raised in the diversity, although it was confirmed in the previous assessment that gender should continue to be considered in particular. survey. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 55 Strong Flexible Support Corporate Governance Directors and Executive Officers Compensation Scheme The Bank’s Board of Directors, which is comprised of a majority of  Restricted stock compensation outside directors, determines the introduction and level of exec Equity remuneration type stock options utive remuneration within the total amount of executive Compensation System for Outside Directors remuneration approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. As for the remuneration for outside directors, we introduced restrictIn addition, the Nomination and Compensation Committee, ed stock remuneration in fiscal 2020, in addition to fixed which consists of all outside directors, has been voluntarily estabremuneration as base remuneration. The purpose of this system is to continuously improve corporate value and further promote the lished as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. The sharing of value with shareholders. committee deliberates matters related to the compensation of Process for Determining Compensation Amount directors based on consultations with the Board of Directors and Compensation amounts for directors and executive officers reflect reports to the Board of Directors. on the content of the Bank’s current Plan for Restoring Sound Policy on Determining Compensation Management and are determined by the Board of Directors taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nomination and • Appropriate incentives are provided in order to advance the Compensation Committee who deliberate on compensation Group’s business and realize the mediumto long-term Group amounts within the scope of compensation amounts determined at management principles. each general meeting of shareholders. In addition, the Board of • Reflecting the roles and responsibilities of each director and executive Directors has an internal control system that is audited by the Audit officer, directors and executive officers share common shareholder & Supervisory Board meeting. value by holding the Company’s shares over the long term. At the Nomination and Compensation Committee, which was • The scheme will curb excessive risk-taking and contribute to ongoestablished on March 20, 2019, is composed of all outside directors, ing sound management as a financial institution. the agenda is resolved by a majority of the members present. Audit • The plan incorporates a compensation system that provides incen& Supervisory Board members also attend the Nomination and tive to further increase corporate value considering share price. Compensation Committee. The Nomination and Compensation Committee was held five times within the fiscal year. Compensation System for Full-Time Directors Total Maximum Amount of Compensation for Directors • Basic remuneration Fixed Compensation (Annual fixed amount) (1) Total maximum amount of compensation for directors (including outside directors): Up to ¥180 million per year (of this amount, • Mediumto long-term incentive remuneration ¥60 million for outside directors) The remuneration of full-time directors is based on mediumto long-term incentive remuneration in order to further promote the (2) Maximum amount of allotment of restricted stock for full-time sharing of value with shareholders and to increase the motivation to directors: Up to ¥20 million per year, within the total maximum contribute to the improvement of corporate value and share price amount in (1) above over the medium to long term in the execution of business. The Maximum amount of restricted shares for outside directors (introamount of stock-based compensation stock options to be paid is duced in fiscal 2020): ¥15 million per year out of the total determined based on certain formulas based on the share price and maximum amount in (1) above net assets of the Bank and banking businesses in accordance with The transfer restriction period is determined in advance by the Board the internal regulations determined by the Board of Directors. of Directors for a period between three and five years after the allotHowever, as the benchmarks are determined in the marketplace, ment date of the allocated shares to full-time and outside directors. these are not set as targets. There is no short-term incentive remu(3) Maximum amount of allotment of equity remuneration type stock neration that depends on the performance of each fiscal year. options for full-time directors: Up to ¥50 million per year, separate from the total maximum amount in (1) above  otal Amounts of Compensation etc. by Category, Total Amounts by Type of Compensation etc., and the Number of T Eligible Persons (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Total amounts of Total amounts by type of compensation etc. (millions of yen) Categories compensation etc. Fixed Equity remuneration Restricted stock Retirement Number of eligible persons Other (millions of yen) compensation type stock options compensation benefits Directors (excluding outside 114 67 27 19 — — 2 directors) Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding outside Audit & 20 20 — — — — 1 Supervisory Board members) Outside directors and outside Audit 77 66 — — 11 — 9 (Three of whom have retired) & Supervisory Board members Total 211 153 27 19 11 — 12 (Three of whom have retired) Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit. 2. Within the categories above, there are two directors who serve concurrently as executive officers. 3. B  ased on a resolution at the 15th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 17, 2015, one executive director who retired at the closing of the 19th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 19, 2019, and one executive director who resigned on August 27, 2019, were paid retirement benefits of 11 million yen. Compensation for executive officers as well as chief officers short-term incentive compensation, and restricted stock comand senior officers in the Group Headquarters is comprised of a pensation as mediumto long-term incentive compensation fixed compensation component as basic compensation, a (introduced in fiscal 2018). bonus component based on the single year’s performance as 56 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Members/Audit & Supervisory Board About the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank’s Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of one fullsuch as attending key meetings, such as Executive Committee time member who has extensive business experience at the Bank meetings, and Board of Directors’ meetings, they also review and is knowledgeable in finance and accounting and two outside key documents and conduct interviews with directors, executive members, one of whom is an attorney and the other is a certified officers and accounting auditors. Through cooperation with public accountant. By applying the expertise from their respective internal control sections such as the Group Internal Audit fields of specialization and their knowledge of corporate goverDivision and utilizing staff of the Office of Audit & Supervisory nance, the Audit & Supervisory Board, which is fully independent Board members they systematically and efficiently audit the from the Board of Directors, engages in appropriate audits of the state of the business execution of the entire Shinsei Bank performance of the business execution of directors. Group, including the Bank as well as its subsidiaries. In addition, both outside Audit & Supervisory Board members are experienced as external directors of other companies, A  ctivities of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Creating a Positive Impact on Society and, by drawing upon their experience, they are able to provide since Fiscal 2019 AGM1 views with greater objectivity from a position of greater indeBoard of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board meetings meetings pendence, resulting in enhanced effectiveness of the Audit & Number of meetings held2 8 times 12 times Supervisory Board’s auditing activities. Audit & Supervisory Attendance rate 100% 100% Board members, not only personally conduct audit activities 1 A GM refers to the annual general meeting of shareholders. 2 The total number of meetings held after the AGM in fiscal 2019. Chief Officers/Senior Officers and Executive Officers In order to ensure agile day-to-day business operations, busiordinances, and are working to increase the level of sophistication ness operations are split into basic units called “divisions,” and and productivity of operations on a consolidated basis under the Our Innovation Stories under the direction of the President and Chief Executive Officer, responsibility of chief officers and senior officers who assist them. the 35 (as of June 17, 2020) executive officers, chief officers, and In addition, as bodies that support the President and Chief senior officers appointed by the Board of Directors are responExecutive Officer in making decisions regarding the execution sible for each division as executive officers in charge. of business, the Bank has established a Group Executive With regard to business functions, business unit heads and Committee and an Executive Committee, both comprising executive officers in charge of each division are appointed from Executive Directors, business unit heads, supervising executive among executive officers, and each divisions’ executive officers officers in charge, chief officers, and others. In addition, by in charge and their supervising executive officers in charge work establishing various committees that handle technical matters to promote business with customers based on overall Group as a complement to the Group Executive Committee and the business strategies and management resource allocations Executive Committee, the Bank has put in place a framework devised by business unit heads. for making decisions after adequate deliberation and verificaWe have consolidated indirect functions such as human resourction based on the nature of the matter at hand. Strong Flexible Support es and finance that had been located in each Group company Based on this framework, the Bank is strongly promoting Group within the Bank’s Group Headquarters as much as possible under integration in keeping with the Mediumto Long-Term Vision. the Banking Act, the Companies Act, and other laws and Overview of Group Executive Committee, Executive Committee and Other Important Committees Name Main Purpose Group Executive Committee The President’s decision-making body for day-to-day business execution at the Group level Executive Committee The President’s decision-making body for day-to-day business execution for Shinsei Bank, Limited Group ALM Committee Negotiate, formulate policies and make decisions concerning mediumand long-term Asset and Liability Management Group Compliance Committee Communicate, coordinate and make decisions on the Group’s compliance posture and on matters relating to compliance Group Risk Policy Committee Discuss the risk operation policy and management framework for the Group’s portfolios, and the Group’s approach to major portfolios, sectors, products and so forth Group IT Committee Discuss, coordinate and resolve the Group’s IT strategies and governance issues Group Business Continuity Management Committee Discuss, coordinate and make decisions across divisions to advance reforms to the Group’s business continuity structure Data Section Group Basel Committee Discuss, coordinate and make resolutions on matters concerning regulatory capital, with a focus on Basel regulations Group Management Development Committee Discuss, coordinate and make decisions about the Group’s HR system and related measures, etc. Group New Business / Product Committee Conduct due diligence on each new business and service proposal across the Group and make decisions, and conduct due diligence on strategic investment proposals Doubtful Debt Committee Promptly inform top management about significant bad debt exposure, and make decisions on write-offs and other matters concerning sale of debts, debt forgiveness and so forth SME Loan Committee Through discussions on the business policy and challenges for the entire institutional banking business, take initiative in bank-wide efforts to achieve SME loan goals set in the Revitalization Plan SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 57 Strong Flexible Support Corporate Governance Internal Control For corporate governance to function effectively, in addipropriety and efficiency of day-to-day operations and is tion to creating business execution oversight and defined in the “Internal Control Rules” determined by decision-making frameworks around the Board of the Board of Directors, and, furthermore, the adequacy Directors, putting into place frameworks which facilitate of its internal control systems is reviewed annually by the the proper functioning of functions such as internal Board of Directors. The Internal Control Rules clearly audits and compliance is also necessary. Additionally, the state that (1) the internal control system has a self-discicreation of internal control systems as required by the plined function in the business execution line in the field Corporation Act or internal controls that ensure the (first-line); a management function, such as compliance accuracy of financial reports as required by the Financial independent from business execution lines (second-line); Instruments and Exchange Act is also a crucial element and an internal audit function independent from these in a properly functioning corporate governance strucfunctions (third-line); (2) the Board of Directors shall ture. While management is responsible for ensuring the receive timely and appropriate reports from the secimplementation of such internal controls, the proper ond-line and third-line functions in order to grasp and function of overall internal controls can be ensured by deal with serious risks and problems appropriately and installing detailed internal control frameworks within the shall periodically review the key policies and controls. divisions executing business operations. Under this regulation, the Shinsei Bank Group Code of Shinsei Bank’s basic policy governing its internal conConduct, Risk Management Policy, Group Information trol systems has been put in place in order to ensure the Security Policy, Regulations of Business Execution, Internal Control Framework Audits Audit & Supervisory Board Members / Reports Board of Directors / Directors Account Auditors Audit & Supervisory Board Preparation / Supervision Appointment Appointment / Audits Audits updating of regulations supervision Reports Reports President & CEO Third-line function (internal audit function) Group Internal Audit Division Reports Audits Executive Officers, Chief Officers, Senior Officers • Internal Control Rules • Charter of Shinsei Second-line function (management function, compliance independent from business Bank Group Corporate execution lines in the field) Behavior Group Headquarters • Shinsei Group Code of Conduct • Group Risk First-line function (a self-disciplined function in the business execution line in the field) Management Policy • Group Information Customer business divisions (including Group companies) Security Policy • Regulations of Plan Business Execution (Preparations of policies and measures) • Subsidiaries and Action • Compliance • Efficient business execution Do Affiliates Policy • Risk Management • Management of subsidiaries (Improvement of • Group Headquarters • Security and affiliated companies (Implementation of policies and measures) • Efficient Conduct of business • Supervision of financial and policies and measures) Organization business matters Management Policy • Internal Audit Policy Check (Evaluation of policies and measures) <Design and operation of internal control systems> 58 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Subsidiaries and Affiliates Policy, Group Headquarters With regard to internal control over group companies, About the Shinsei Bank Group Organization Management Policy and Internal Audit from April 2017, the indirect functions of major Group Policy are established as the underlying rules. In addition, companies have been consolidated at the Group by improving the system for ensuring the effectiveness Headquarters in Shinsei Bank and managed centrally, of the audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members, we and the specialized sections of the Group Headquarters are striving to ensure the propriety, transparency and directly manage subsidiaries and affiliates based on efficiency of operations throughout the entire Group, Banking Law, Companies Act and other related laws to including subsidiaries. We are also striving to create systhe extent possible. tems to block relationships with anti-social forces and Under this system, matters related to business activiensure the propriety of operations, including establishties and internal management of subsidiaries and ing the Charter of Shinsei Bank Group Corporate affiliates are regularly reported to the Group Executive Creating a Positive Impact on Society Behavior to prevent relationships with anti-social forces. Committee, and important matters related to the manFurthermore, we have established the Group Business agement of subsidiaries and affiliates are discussed at Continuity Management Committee to prepare for and reported to the Group Executive Committee and large-scale disasters, accidents, and other disruptions to other important committees organized by the Group the Bank business activities, and have established variHeadquarters. ous rules concerning the business continuity system to Through the development of this system, we will furensure that important business operations are continued ther enhance the management system of the entire and that the Group fulfills its responsibilities to customGroup, including subsidiaries and affiliates. ers and society as much as possible. Our Innovation Stories Group Internal Control Support Framework (As of June 17, 2020) Divisions in Charge Overall control • Group Corporate Planning Division • Group Corporate Group Institutional Business Planning Division, Planning Division Group Individual Business Planning Division Operational Risk Management, Controls Reports Legal Compliance Operations • Group Legal and Administrative Risk Management Division Compliance Division Strong Flexible Support Information Systems Risk Management Division* System Risk Management, • Group Information Group Member Companies Controls Credit Risk Technology Division • Group Portfolio Risk • Group Human Specialized sections Labor Risk • Showa Leasing Management Division Resources Division • Group Individual Banking • APLUS FINANCIAL Reputational Risk Risk Management Division • Shinsei Financial • Group Investor Relations & Corporate • Shinsei Securities Communinations Division Market Risk • Shinsei Trust & Banking Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Reports • Group Integrated Risk • Shinsei Investment Management Management Division • Group General Services Division • Shinsei Investment and Finance Finance • Alpha Servicer Liquidity Risk • Group Corporate Planning Division Data Section • Shinsei Corporate Investment • Group Treasury Division • Group Financial and Regulatory • Group Integrated Risk Accounting Division • FINANCIAL JAPAN Management Division • Group Treasury Department • Under Group Headquarters * The specialized sections of each risk area identify and measure the potential risks in corporation with the controlling division (Group Integrated Risk Management Division). SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 59 Strong Flexible Support Corporate Governance Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Division (GIAD) of the Bank assessment, assessing risk from an individual business makes regular direct reports regarding the results of level. Audit resources are prioritized to businesses or audits and the status of GIAD activities to the President processes perceived to have relatively higher risk. and the Audit & Supervisory Board. The GIAD supports The GIAD has enhanced its off-site monitoring activithe President in his responsibility for controlling business ties by attending key management meetings, reviewing execution, in particular for establishing an effective sysinternal control documents and holding regular meettem of internal controls, and also supports the Audit & ings with senior management. Supervisory Board in their responsibilities for audit and The GIAD also takes initiatives in developing internal supervisory activities, in particular for monitoring the sysauditors’ expertise, in particular, strongly encouraging tem governing internal controls and its operation. The them to obtain professional certifications such as the GIAD provides independent and objective assessments Certified Internal Auditor and Certified Information of the effectiveness of risk management, control and Systems Auditor qualifications. While the GIAD pursues governance processes, the reliability of information and the development and introduction of new audit techinformation technology systems, and compliance with niques, it also recognizes the importance of maintaining statutory, legal and regulatory requirements, as well as fundamental skills necessary to perform its audit-related provides solutions to management. duties. The GIAD is independent of all organizations subject The GIAD has integrated internal audit functions withto internal audits, as well as being independent of dayin the Bank and major subsidiaries, and conducts internal to-day operational activities and control processes, audit activities in an integrated manner across the Bank including regular preventive and detective controls. The group. By receiving regular quality assessments carried GIAD utilizes a risk-based audit approach and creates a out by a third party organization of group internal audit comprehensive risk assessment by combining a macactivities, we are able to identify opportunities for ro-risk assessment, assessing risk from the perspective of improvement from an objective viewpoint. the Banking Group as a whole, together with a micro-risk Legal and Compliance Activities Compliance Framework and Activities activities performed by compliance supervisors and The Group Compliance Committee established in the compliance managers, these compliance officers preGroup Headquarters, Group Legal and Compliance pare an annual Group compliance program, set rules, Division and compliance supervisors (general managers) provide training, and so on. and compliance managers assigned to divisions, branches and departments in key Group companies, including Whistle-Blower System Shinsei Bank, constitute the main elements of the Shinsei Shinsei Bank has established a compliance hotline sysBank Group’s compliance framework. The Group tem. Under this system, executives and employees of Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief Officer of the Bank can report on violations of laws or ordinances, the Group Legal and Compliance Division, reports on or matters in which there are suspicions of such violations. and discusses the basic policy for the compliance frameIf a report is made, the matter is reported to senior work spanning the entire Group as well as compliancemanagement, a team is organized to investigate the related issues. issue, and necessary corrective and recovery measures There are compliance officers within the Group Legal are implemented. The Bank prohibits whistle-blowers and Compliance Division, and in addition to providing from being subject to unfavorable treatment due to the support and guidance for compliance promotion fact that they made a report, and the Group Legal and 60 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Compliance Division later follows up to make sure that evaluated and working on more effective measures. It is About the Shinsei Bank Group the whistle-blower has not been treated unfavorably. our top priority to eliminate risks of money laundering Other group companies have also established similar and the financing of terrorism by assessing the effectiveinternal whistle-blowing systems. ness of countermeasures and providing continuous effort on reviewing the measures. Compliance Hotline Legal Supervision • Three Investigation Teams Violations of any laws and ordinances that the Bank and (1) Group Legal and Compliance Division (2) Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Board Member each Group company are required to abide by carrying (3) Outside Law Officer the risk of severe repercussions not only to our credibility • Information on the internal whistle-blower system is provided and reputation as a financial institution, but to the crediCreating a Positive Impact on Society through internal rules and the Company’s intranet bility and functionality of the overall banking system itself. In the case of individual transactions, there exists a risk that we may become embroiled in a dispute and Measures against Money Laundering and Provision face unexpected claims for damages. Prevention and of the Financing of Terrorism proper management of these legal risks are a crucial The Shinsei Bank Group has “Policy on Anti-Money function within the day-to-day operations of today’s Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism” banking groups. Shinsei Bank has established the Legal and has positioned combating money laundering and Department within its Group Legal and Compliance the provision of funds to terrorist organizations as one of Division that presides over such legal affairs, including the most critical issues, and works to establish a Groupcompliance with corporate and transactional laws, legal Our Innovation Stories wide framework for doing so under the leadership of documentation and litigation supervision, and, through management. Using a risk-based approach outlined in this specialized support, we work with legal officers in all Mutual Evaluations of Japan by the Financial Action Task Group companies and, on a Group basis, aim to prevent Force (FATF), the Group is reducing risk by implementand manage any legal risk and support our compliance ing individual measures to combat the Shinsei Bank posture from a legal standpoint. Group’s particular risks that have been identified and The Shinsei Bank Group Policy on Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML / CFT) Specify and assess the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism at each company based on the concept of the risk-based approach, while paying attention to laws, ordinances, and other rules in Japan and documents Strong Flexible Support issued by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and other interna1. Risk assessment tional organizations. Take risk mitigation measures that are appropriate for the risk being addressed. Regularly examine the effectiveness of risk identification and assessment practices and risk mitigation measures and review them as needed. Conduct customer identification before entering into transactions pursuant to relevant laws and ordinances, prac2. Customer identification and due tice proper customer due diligence, and endeavor to eliminate inappropriate transaction relationships with diligence customers including those with anti-social forces. Give the authorities a suspicious transaction report immediately if a transaction is judged to fall under suspicious 3. Transaction monitoring, transactions based on an abnormality found in the customer identification process conducted before entering into customer screening, and reporta transaction or during transaction monitoring or customer screening or based on a report made by business proing of suspicious transactions motion divisions / branches. 4. Targeted financial sanctions and Eliminate transaction relationships with the parties that are subject to targeted financial sanctions and appropriately asset-freezing measures take asset-freezing and other measures pursuant to domestic and overseas regulations and so forth. Appropriately collect information on customers who have entered into a correspondent contract with the Bank and 5. Management of customers with assess their AML / CFT frameworks. Shinsei Bank and its customers who have entered into a correspondent contract Data Section correspondent contract with the Bank are prohibited from having transactions with shellbanks and from having transactions using through accounts with a strong level of anonymity. 6. Training for officers and Endeavor to provide guidance and training to officers and employees to deepen their knowledge and understandemployees ing of AML / CFT measures and to equip them with expertise and to ensure their suitability according to their roles. Regularly check the effectiveness of AML / CFT frameworks and endeavor to keep improving them based on the 7. Continuous improvement results of such checks. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 61 Strong Flexible Support Risk Governance Basic Approach The key components of risk governance are risk culture, between risk appetite and financial planning as a key appropriate business execution based on risk appetite, premise, and work to achieve appropriate business exeand risk management. While the Shinsei Bank Group cution based on risk appetite through the integrated continually strives to improve all of these elements, we operation of existing functions related to both. The have put particular emphasis on building systems for Shinsei Bank Group uses the common equity Tier 1 ratio appropriate business execution based on risk appetite and return on equity (ROE) as key strategic financial indiand have put in place an integrated management framecators. By aligning risk appetite with financial planning, work based on consistency between risk appetite and appropriate risk-taking aims to produce expected financial planning. The concept of risk appetite is comreturns, which in turn leads to improved financial monly referred to as the risk appetite framework. At the indicators. Shinsei Bank Group, however, we focus on the consistency Risk Appetite Risk appetite and financial plans are detailed and materirisk appetite in an appropriate and detailed manner to alized in the process of formulating these plans based clarify the Group’s risk appetite behind financial planning on strategies and tactics for each business line based on and foster a shared understanding of risk. In addition, to the Medium-Term Management Strategy that indicates quantify risk appetite on a uniform scale, we have formuthe direction of management. The Shinsei Bank Group lated a capital allocation plan that allocates capital to has formulated a Risk Appetite Policy that documents each business line. Conceptual Diagram of the Relationship Between Risk Appetite and Financial Planning Strategy / Medium Term Plan / Short Term Capital Allocation Plan Risk Appetite Risk Appetite Policy Medium-Term Management Strategy Business Management Policy BS / PL Plan Financial Plan In order to ensure consistency between risk appetite multiple liquidity risk indicators based on the strict rule. and financial plans, we verify and monitor financial plans The Shinsei Bank Group has established the Group Risk through multiple methods from the perspective of risks Policy Committee as a consultative body of senior related to the fundamentals of management, such as management to discuss risk appetite. At the same time, capital, liquidity, and earnings fluctuations. If it is deterthis structure requires close communications between mined that there is excessive risk-taking or if there is the risk management section and the management doubt about its feasibility, the Bank reviews the plan as section, which is a key element of the framework. necessary. For example, in scenario analysis, which is a typical verification method, we comprehensively analyze financial risks based on multiple scenarios including an economic downturn. During the fiscal year, the Bank monitors the actual use of capital allocation plans and 62 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Conceptual Diagram of Integrated Management About the Shinsei Bank Group Business Business Environment Scenario Verification Environment Scenario Verification Recognition Recognition Medium-Term Management FY Business Plan Operation Strategy Results and Financial Plan Monitoring Review of Business Strategies Risk Appetite Plan Important Risks Creating a Positive Impact on Society Of the risks that could materialize in the next one-year important risks such as the entry of nonfinancial compaperiod, we recognize risks that are considered to have a nies into the financial industry due to innovations in significant impact on management based on managefinancial technologies, materialization of human resource ment discussions. This process emphasizes the risks, risk of fraud in business processes, and the instabilconsideration of nonfinancial risks that are difficult to ity of the foreign currency procurement environment. quantify, but trigger events, transmission channels, and The integrated business management framework is financial impacts are specified as much as possible when designed to continuously strengthen the ability to predetermining the impact on management. In addition to dict and respond to these risks. the current economic downturn, we have identified Our Innovation Stories Important Risks Risk Scenario Risk Scenario Details / Impact 1. Increase of credit costs due A shift in monetary policy due to inflation caused by a hike in tariffs and a rise in crude oil prices. to economic downturn An increase in credit costs and an increase in fund procurement costs accompanying a decline in real estate prices through a sharp rise in long-term interest rates due to interest rate hikes. Lower stock prices due to the economic downturn caused by the worsening of U.S.-China issues. 2. Large-scale natural disasters An increase of credit costs due to the economic downturn triggered by a global outbreak of large-scale natural disasand infectious disease ters caused by climate change and infectious diseases. epidemics Business interruption or loss due to system failure, etc. 3. Entry of nonfinancial Entry by players from other industries into the personal and SME loan market in association with the rise of FinTech companies into the industry and other new technologies. due to innovations in A decline in the Shinsei Bank Group’s loan balance and lower profit margins due to competition over interest rates. financial technologies Strong Flexible Support 4. Materialization of human Low performance due to the inability to secure high-quality human resources and a downturn in capabilities due to resource risk the outflow of key personnel, etc. Difficulty in securing human resources to execute business strategies that need to be strengthened in the future. 5. Risk of fraud in business Internal improprieties, including outsourcees, fraud (money laundering, cyber attacks, etc.), and system failures. processes These causes fines and administrative dispositions from the related authorities, and rumors etc. 6. Instability of the foreign The foreign currency investment / procurement balance increasingly tilts towards excessive investment. currency procurement Instability and inefficiency of foreign currency procurement, including rising fund procurement costs in conjunction environment with financial market turmoil under such circumstances. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Data Section We have formulated Business Continuity Management damage from terrorism or crime, or an outbreak of an Policy and Business Continuity Plan to ensure the contiinfectious disease. The Business Continuity Plan and its nuity of important operations and the smooth fulfillment operating procedures are regularly reviewed, and of our responsibilities to customers and society in the employees undergo regular education and training. event of an earthquake, typhoon, or other disaster, SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 63 Strong Flexible Support Initiatives for Global Environmental Issues through Our Core Businesses Shinsei Bank has endorsed the recommendations of TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures). In line with this TCFD framework, we introduce the Shinsei Bank Group’s efforts to address global environmental issues through our core businesses. Governance The Shinsei Bank Group has positioned the Group ESG The Group Executive Committee formulates the Management Policy as the starting point for formulating Group ESG Management Policy to show the Group’s management strategies, and by contributing to the crepolicies for ESG-related initiatives. In recognition of the ation of a sustainable society, we aim to fulfill our fact that ESG-based management and SDGs should not corporate social responsibilities and acquire sustainable be limited to specialized departments, we share informagrowth opportunities. tion and issues, through cross-organizational team from Responding to global environmental issues, including divisions such as corporate planning, businesses, risk climate change, is indispensable for a sustainable socimanagement, human resources, general affairs and ety. We will strive to create social value and increase the investor relations, and lead the formulation of individual corporate value of the Shinsei Bank Group over the action plans. Progress and results are reported to the medium to long term through a variety of initiatives, Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee including investment and financing to clients’ climate on a regular basis. change-related projects. Strategy Opportunities: finance, developing and supplying Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to the investment products for institutional Improvement of Global Environmental Issues investors based on this evaluation. The Shinsei Bank Group is actively promoting investment SHINSEI and lending to improve and resolve environmental and SUSTAINABLE social issues through project finance for renewable energy IMPACT ASSESSMENT businesses, and investment and lending for facilities which reduce the environmental impact of real estate Fiscal 2019 Initiatives and ship finance. In fiscal 2019, in the project finance business, we marked the tenth transaction of our participation in offshore Objectives, Organization, and Action Policies of the wind power projects in Europe. In addition, we particiSustainable Impact Development Division pated in the domestic offshore wind power projects for In February 2020, we established the Sustainable Impact the first time, which is expected to see significant growth Development Division to further deepen the initiative in the future, using our accumulated knowledge so far. mentioned above. At the same time, the Sustainable Showa Leasing also invested in renewable energy funds, Impact Assessment Department was established to a regional recycling-oriented type fund. structure a unique evaluation system of sustainable In ship finance, we implemented some financing projfinance based on ongoing engagement with customers. ects for LNG carriers, which are expected to play a major The Sustainable Impact Development Division supports role in energy conversion. In addition, in order for custhe creation of positive impacts on environmental and tomers to comply with international environmental social issues by planning and promoting sustainable regulations in the shipping industry, we financed an 64 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 exhaust gas cleaning system for ships (SOx scrubber) machinery by collaborating with manufacturers and sellAbout the Shinsei Bank Group with a loan and a sales credit product. In the future, we ing companies in an integrated manner. will continue to provide financial support for the decarbonization and reduction of environmental impact, which are strongly required in the shipping industry. Renewable Energy Project Finance Arrangement Results Since 2012, Shinsei Bank has actively promoted syndicated loans for renewable energy businesses such as solar, wind, and biomass, and has been supporting the spread Modular barge system used as a river flood of renewable energy in cooperation with regional financountermeasure (assembled marine construction Creating a Positive Impact on Society machinery capable of smoothly performing civil cial institutions. engineering work on water) Renewable Energy Project Finance Arrangement Results (Billions of yen) 150 Risks: 138.5 Identified Risks We believe that climate change influences the Shinsei 100 Bank Group’s portfolios principally through the following two channels: 50 Physical Risk: Direct impacts such as property damage caused by floods, storms and other climate events, and Our Innovation Stories indirect impacts such as disruptions to the global supply 0 (FY) 16 17 18 19 chain and resource depletion. Transition Risk: Risks arising from the revaluation of financial assets with high GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emisRestoration Support for Natural Disasters sions as a result of the transition to a low-carbon Harnessing its expertise and corporate network cultivateconomy. ed through the leasing business, Showa Leasing is Carbon-related asset exposures (the ratio of carfocusing on its business as a buying and selling of used bon-related assets to total exposure = energy and equipment, especially for construction machines. Tozai utilities (excluding project finance such as solar and wind Boeki Co., Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Showa power)) was 4.2% as of March 2019, and 4.2% as of Leasing, holds regular parade auctions for used conMarch 2020, and we have begun quantifying the impacts Strong Flexible Support struction machines, and many buyers from developing of transition risks and physical risks. countries come to these auctions. The Japan-made construction machinery is auctioned off and exported Carbon-Related Assets as a Percentage of Total Exposure overseas where they support infrastructure building in (energy and utilities (excluding project finance for renewable energy)) emerging markets and Showa Leasing is working to pro(%) mote the reuse of Japanese-used machinery. In addition, 100 4.2 4.2 the need for construction machinery to recover from nat80 95.8 95.8 ural disasters in Japan has been increasing recently. Against this background, Eishin Kogyo Co., Ltd., a whol60 ly-owned subsidiary of Showa Leasing, promotes finance 40 Data Section to modular barge system to prevent river floods, and C  arbon-related assets as a percentage of Shinko Lease Co., Ltd, a group company of Kobe Steel 20 total exposure Ltd., which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Showa Others 0 Leasing in 2019, works on financing to construction (End of Mar.) 19 20 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 65 Strong Flexible Support Initiatives for Global Environmental Issues through Our Core Businesses Scenario Analysis We have identified addressing climate change as one of which we regularly monitor. Looking ahead, we will our top management priorities. We formulated opportuclosely monitor the impact on the Shinsei Bank Group’s nities and risks based on scenarios under two dimensions portfolios, taking into consideration quantification of which constitute (1) strengthening regulations and transrisks. formation of technology and (2) economic fluctuations Trends in Regulatory Strengthening and Technological Innovation Towards 2°C or Below: Scenarios Probability of occurrence High 2°C Probability of occurrence Medium 2°C Economic downturn Base scenario Bear stress scenario • Transition risk increase due to strengthened regulations and • Due to the tightening of regulations aimed at achieving 2°C or technological innovation. below, and technological innovation, an economic downturn • The Paris Agreement shifted from the target to the implemenoccurs, mainly due to the increase in the number of structural tation stage. unemployment due to mismatches in employment and In addition to the introduction of a strict carbon tax, the decarbondefaults of enterprises that are unable to change their social ization society has rapidly progressed due to active policy induction. structure. As a result, it becomes difficult to achieve 2°C target. • Damage caused by floods and typhoons is suppressed compared with 4°C. Probability of occurrence Low 4°C Probability of occurrence Very low 4°C Economic downturn Severe stress scenario 1 Severe stress scenario 2 • Many countries withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Carbon tax • A series of fiscal measures to cope with frequent wind and and low-carbon policy remains unchanged. flood disasters will increase the fiscal deficit, causes a down• Inland water inundation caused by heavy localized rain and storms grade of sovereign ratings and a rise in long-term interest and flood damage caused by severe typhoons increased. rates, and an economic downturn, such as a decline in real estate prices. • Frequent disasters increase physical risk. Economic downturn Trends in Regulatory Strengthening and Technological Innovation Towards 2°C or Below: Opportunities and Risks Probability of occurrence High 2°C Probability of occurrence Medium 2°C Economic downturn Base scenario: Bear stress scenario: Technological innovation + regulatory strengthening Expansion of structural unemployment and consumption stagnation due to technological innovation and strengthen regulations Risk Opportunity Risk Opportunity • Increase in risk of defaults in • Expansion of needs for transi• Risks under the Base • Further need for transition high GHG emission sectors, tion support financing. Scenario. support financing and investincluding stranded assets • Expansion of demand for • Credit costs incurred as a ment and lending for such as coal-fired thermal investment and lending for result of rising defaults by decarbonization. power plants. decarbonization. companies and individuals. Probability of occurrence Low 4°C Probability of occurrence Very low 4°C Economic downturn Severe stress scenario 1: Severe stress scenario 2: Maintaining status quo in technological progress + regulaExpansion of budget deficit by fiscal expenditure for frequent disastory strengthening ters Increase in interest rates, decline in real estate values, etc. Risk Opportunity Risk Opportunity • Occurrence of defaults to • Increasing need for funds to • Risks under Severe Stress • In addition to climate change investment and lending destiupgrade repair and disaster Scenario 1. risks, hedging needs for real nations due to the emergence prevention facilities as our • Credit costs arising from a estate etc. are increasing of wind and water disasters. loan portfolio is mainly constidecline in real estate value. • Increase in risk of defaults in tuted by large size • Unrealized losses on securiindividual business due to companies. ties, mainly bonds. borrowers affected by disas• Increasing need for hedging ter and income decline. against climate change risks and insurance products. Economic downturn 66 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Risk Management About the Shinsei Bank Group Adoption of the Equator Principles Investment and Loan Policies for Specified Business In April 2020, Shinsei Bank became the seventh The Shinsei Bank Group considers transactions with Japanese financial institution to adopt the Equator companies that do not pay due attention to environmenPrinciples. The Equator Principles are a framework tal and social issues to be management risks and has adopted by private financial institutions to assess whethprohibited or restricted transactions in connection with er projects will be implemented with due consideration investments and lending for certain specific businesses to the environment and society when financing projects based on the recognition that there are serious risks to involve large-scale development. In November 2019, the the environment and society. From the standpoint of clifourth edition of the Equator Principles was adopted to mate change countermeasures, new investment and Creating a Positive Impact on Society strengthen the perspectives of human rights, climate lending to coal-fired thermal power plants will not be change, and the rights of indigenous people. By reviewprovided either in Japan or overseas, in principle, based ing the environmental and social impacts of projects and on a preventive approach. making comprehensive decisions based on the Equator Principles, we will fulfill our corporate social responsibiliPercentage of “Ultra Supercritical, GCC” in Existing ty and enhance our environmental and social risk Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plants management. Approximately 60% of existing loan balances for coalfired thermal power plants are highly-efficient, ultra-supercritical power plants or gas-turbine combined-cycle (GCC) power plants, which emit relatively Our Innovation Stories less CO2 than conventional power plants. Project Finance (as of the end of March 2020) Balance: project type, includes commitment basis P  PP1 32% Gas etc.2 24% M  ega solar 71% Wind power 21% Thermal power (coal) 9% Overseas Thermal power (coal) 11% Japan Thermal power (biomass) 9% Others 6% Wind power 8% Thermal power (biomass) 3% Thermal power (gas) 3% Thermal power (gas) 3% 1 P ublic Private Partnership Strong Flexible Support 2 Finance to LNG related facilities and receiving terminal etc. Ratios & Targets CO2 Emissions, Electricity Usage Environment Impact Data (FY) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 CO2 Emissions (t) 2,806 2,746 2,602 2,575 2,425 Electricity Usage (kWh) 5,163,522 5,093,523 5,069,080 5,027,896 5,013,949 Data Section Future Policy In measurement of GHG emission we plan to cover Scope 1 and Scope 2 to each of our group companies as a first step, and then we plan to respond to Scope 3. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 67 Strong Flexible Support Initiatives for Employees The Shinsei Bank Group regards HR-related matters as one of the most important tasks for the growth of the organization. Therefore, we implement ongoing reviews of our existing systems and initiatives. To provide optimal value to our customers, the entire Group is working together across departments and groups to develop and utilize personnel and foster an organizational culture. The Shinsei Bank Group’s Human Resources Strategy Our Medium-Term Strategies “Redesigning Finance,” one of our basic strategies is to pursue the strengthening and leveraging of organizational capabilities that are the source of corporate growth. Hideyuki Kudo President and Chief Executive Officer The Shinsei Bank Group provides financial products and tional structure bound by existing frameworks. services to corporate and individual customers while colWe are working to have all employees contribute even laborating under integrated management. We also more value to the Group by maximizing their individual conduct reviews of the Group’s financial functions from strengths and through the optimal utilization of personnel the customer’s point of view, and aim to create new busion a Group-wide basis in addition to helping employees nesses that extend beyond existing frameworks based develop their skills. Starting in fiscal 2018, we began on customers’ true needs. Financial needs of customers using a common performance evaluation system across are diversifying, and the way of providing services is also the Group as a part of our efforts to bolster talent manchanging due to the evolution of digital technologies. agement. Moreover, we aim to maximize group What we have to do now is to “redesign” our financial performance while creating new financial services as we business and break away from the ideas and organizaintegrate the Group’s various financial functions. Creation of Sustainable Corporate Value Maximization of Human Resource through Promoting Diversity Career Diversity Gender Diversity Workstyle Diversity Talent Diversity 68 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Promoting Diversity and the Active Participation of Women in the Workplace About the Shinsei Bank Group In order to create sustainable value, the Shinsei Bank Group systems to promote female employees in the workplace, is promoting diversity, focusing on strengthening and utilizincluding providing training opportunities. In addition, five ing capabilities as a pillar of its management strategies. Shinsei Bank Group companies*1 formulated “Action Plan for In April 2018, we introduced a teleworking system as an Promoting Active Participation of Women,” for three years example of promoting diverse work styles. In addition, we starting in fiscal 2020. The Group set the following common are working to create an environment in which employees targets in order to promote highly effective initiatives for procan work in their own way with satisfaction and fulfillment by moting the active participation by women in the workplace enhancing their work styles in order to generate continuous with a sense of speed across the Group. good performance, by introducing various options such as *1 Shinsei Bank, Ltd.; Showa Leasing Co., Ltd.; Shinsei Investment & Finance Limited; Creating a Positive Impact on Society APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd.; Shinsei Financial Co., Ltd. self-directed flex-time, life support leave, and the complete abolition of dress codes. To enhance diverse careers, we Trend in Female Manager Ratio at Shinsei Bank started allowing employees to engage in both side work and (%) concurrent work as the first among the domestic financial 40 institutions so that employees will be able to link the learning 32.7 outside the company or in the place away from business with 30 individual growth and innovation of the organization. Shinsei Bank President and Chief Executive Officer 20 Hideyuki Kudo supports the “Declaration on Action by a Group of Male Leaders Who Will Create a Society in which 10 Our Innovation Stories Women Shine” advocated by the Cabinet Office. The Group Women’s Activity Promotion Committee, established in 0 February 2018, is developing a variety of career development (FY) 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19  he Shinsei Bank Group’s Action Plan Based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in T the Workplace (From April 2020 to March 31, 2023) Target 1 Achieve a ratio of 18% or more for women in managerial positions*2 at five group companies (also set separately for each company) Target 2 Achieve 100% for the child-care-related leave utilization rate for both males and females *2 Positions of Senior Manager, or Higher Target Ratio of Women in Management Positions (Senior Manager or Above) (as of March 1, 2020) Strong Flexible Support Shinsei Investment & Shinsei Bank Showa Leasing APLUS FINANCIAL Shinsei Financial Total Finance Target 20% 8% 15% 18% 17% 18% or more Result 17.8% 4.1% 11.1% 12.3% 13.0% 13.9% Employment Initiatives for Persons with Disabilities There are 100 people with disabilities working in various maintain a working environment and systems whereby peoShinsei Group workplaces (as of March 31, 2020), based on ple with disabilities can work with peace of mind for many Data Section the idea that personnel with diverse values should be able years, and in order to expand opportunities for continuous to harness their individuality and work together in the same active participation based on the circumstances of each workplaces, rather than separating from each other people individual, the Bank assigns such employees to workplaces with disabilities and those without disabilities. In order to in accordance with their individual characteristics. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 69 Strong Flexible Support Initiatives for Employees Support for Male Childcare Since fiscal 2020, the Shinsei Bank Group has been placchildcare leave system, and ing even greater emphasis on supporting the childcare since fiscal 2020 we have been of male employees. By creating an environment in which incorporating support for balemployees can choose flexible working styles according ancing work and childcare for to their life stages, regardless of gender, and diverse male employees as perforhuman resources can play an active role, we aim to mance evaluation items for evaluators. In October 2019, improve teamwork and organizational capabilities and Shinsei Bank received the Kurumin certification from the strengthen our ability to respond to future life events Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a childcare that all team members may encounter. As initiatives to support company. In the Shinsei Bank Group, Shinsei support childcare, we have been expanding our existing Financial was certified as Platinum Kurumin in 2018. List of Shinsei Bank’s Work-Style Reform-Related Programs System Details Allows employees to start or finish work up to two hours earlier or later than normal starting or ending Self-Directed Flex-Time times in increments of 30 minutes Allows employees working for an unlimited number of days from their home or a relative’s home (within Work from Home two degrees of kinship) Allows employees to concurrently engage in personal business (outsourcing, business start-up, compaSide Work / Concurrent Work ny executive, etc.) or work concurrently for another company Allows employees to take time off in half-day increments during designated hours in the morning or Half-Day Paid Time Off afternoon Allows employees to take time off up to five days per year and up to four hours per day in one-hour Hourly Paid Time Off increments (in combination with half-day paid time off) Special leave system for spouses at the Allows for 20 days leave after spouse’s pregnancy up to the child reaches two years old (allows employtime of giving birth ees to take leave on a split basis or in half-day units) Allows employees to take a leave of absence for reasons including childcare, family care, study abroad, Life Support Leave fertility treatment, spouse work transfer, etc., not covered by existing frameworks Maternity Leave Female employees can take leave six weeks prior to childbirth and eight weeks following childbirth Childcare Leave Allows employees to take leave for childcare up to the child reaches two years old In principle, employees can take up to a total of one year (365 days) off to care for each family member Family Care Leave who requires care (Note) Only employees satisfying certain conditions are eligible to avail the programs noted above. Employee Health Initiatives The Shinsei Bank Group is working to maintain and Health Development Center is improve the health of its employees and create a safe staffed with full-time industrial and comfortable working environment by linking the physicians. In addition, Shinsei activities of the Health Committee and industrial health, Bank and Showa Leasing in accordance with laws related to occupational health received the Silver award for the Gan (cancer) Ally Award and safety. We also use stress checks to understand the 2019, a private-sector project called the Gan Ally Bu that health risks of individual organizational units based on addresses the issue of cancer and employment, which organizational analyses of each Group company, and was established to create a workplace and society where take actions to improve them. Shinsei Bank has estabpeople with cancer can work vigorously while treating lished a Health Development Center, which provides them. daily health management and health guidance. The 70 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Initiatives for Customers Customer-Oriented Business Conduct About the Shinsei Bank Group As a guideline for conducting business operations with and employees of the Group have reaffirmed the importop priority on customers’ “best interests,” the Bank tance of “Pursuing customer-oriented business conduct established the “Policy on Customer-Oriented Business and contributing to our customers’ asset formation,” Conduct” (hereinafter referred to as the “Policy”) and an and by firmly committing to customer-oriented business “Action Plan” to put this Policy into practice. The Policy operations, we will contribute to the sustainable growth was revised as of June 30, 2020 with the aim of making it and development of society and the economy. easier for customers to understand and establishing it as For additional details, please refer to Shinsei Bank’s part of our corporate culture in the field of sales. website. Each Shinsei Bank Group company and all executives https://www.shinseibank.com/english/fiduciaryduty.html Creating a Positive Impact on Society The Shinsei Bank Group Companies that Have Established and Announced the Policy Functions in Shinsei Bank Group’s Asset Management Business Operations Sales Investment / Product Development Custody Services Shinsei Bank Shinsei Trust & Banking Shinsei Securities Financial Japan Shinsei Investment Management Our Innovation Stories The Policy and Actions Policy Actions We have strengthened our management system by adding a bottom-up approach from the sales front to the Implementation of the Policy conventional headquarters-led approach. In addition, we communicated with management and discussed soluon Customer-Oriented tions to issues at executive and practical levels, and promptly implemented various measures related to Business Conduct customer-oriented business management while incorporating on-site opinions. To provide finely tuned services tailored to the characteristics of each customer, we established a new division in charge of the Financial Center located in the Tokyo metropolitan area and the Kansai area. We have expanded the number of hours available for visiting by integrating the management of nearby stores in order to respond The Best Interests of the to the customers’ needs of visiting stores on holidays and on business. In addition, we have stimulated commuCustomers nication with customers and enhanced follow-up through the trial introduction of a “Shinsei Communication App” and the start of follow-up to customers by providing the current value evaluation data for some Strong Flexible Support already-contracted premium products. Held seven committee meetings to select financial products and services prior to the introduction and check Appropriate Management of conflicts of interest in 95 financial products. All financial products and services were reviewed semi-annually to Conflicts of Interest confirm not only conflicts of interest, but also changes in market values, the occurrence of complaints, and the status of implementation of after-sales follow-up. In order to enable comparisons between mutual fund products, we introduced “Mutual Fund Lineup,” which Transparency of Expense and includes basic information about mutual funds, fees, and expenses for the mutual funds that we offer, as well as Fee Structures a QUICK Fund Score, to make it easier to compare mutual funds. We added a page to the “Money Plan Guide,” a proposal tool for asset management consulting, in order to Providing Important explain product characteristics by comparing investment targets, risks, costs, etc. for similar products, such as Information in variable life insurance and investment trusts, foreign currency fixed-amount insurance and foreign currency Easily Understandable Ways deposits, so that customers can select products in an easy-to-understand manner. Conducted monitoring in order to check the status of consulting from the customer’s point of view. We providProviding Services Suitable for ed feedback to our staff based on the status of provision of services appropriate to our customers and Each Customer easy-to-understand provision of important information, and actively shared good practices. Data Section The evaluation system and items were reviewed and the evaluation plan was revised with the aim of realizing Frameworks for consulting that better meets customer needs. In addition, according to the characteristics of each customer, we Appropriate Motivation of conducted training to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for each group, such as training to solve Employees complex problems such as inheritance, gifts, and business succession, as well as training for consulting for longterm asset formation based on life plans. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 71 Strong Flexible Support Social Initiatives Nurturing the Next Generation Environment Our Approach Support children, youth Protect our earth and physically and and the environment intellectually challenged we live in people who create As a corporate group that provides financial services to our future society, the Shinsei Bank Group is aware that the healthy Disaster Relief development of society is the foundation for the Group’s Support the areas affected by the continued existence. As such, we actively promote Great East Japan Earthquake Corporate Philanthropic Initiatives as part of our commitment to acting as a responsible corporate citizen and contributing to the development of a sustainable society. The Shinsei Bank Group promotes employee-driven Contributions for COVID-19 philanthropic activities, whereby approximately 721 In fiscal 2019, the Shinsei Bank Group contributed a combined total of ¥30 million to support the continuation of medical activities, lives of students includemployees throughout the entire Group participated in ing their entry to the higher grades and freelance artists’ activities. Together with USEN-NEXT HOLDINGS Co., Ltd., we donated a total of 100 thousand 26 activities in fiscal 2019 (ended March 31, 2020). masks to corporate and sole proprietorship businesses including restaurants, beauty salons, and various retail stores in accordance with our strategy of “Growth through Value Co-Creation” under the Medium-Term Strategies. “MoneyConnection®” Financial Literacy Program In cooperation with Sodateage.net, an authorized speciparticipate as class supporters at fied nonprofit organization, the Shinsei Bank Group holds high schools, and through the “MoneyConnection ,” a financial literacy program that ® pre-program orientation where aims to help younger people avoid situations where they they learn about the background of the program and are not in employment, education or training (NEET). about the situation facing youths. This program was developed with the understanding As a unique program linking young people and society, that “a lack of accurate knowledge regarding money and the number of programs implemented not only in schools a lack of monetary sense” is one of the reasons that peobut also in rehabilitation facilities such as young people supple lapse into a NEET situation. With high school students port facilities and juvenile training schools has increased. In as the main target, the program aims to provide opportuaddition, the “value as an opportunity” that enables young nities for students to think about their relationship with people and their supporters to deepen mutual understandpeople and their connection to society with “money and ing and build relationships of trust is being appreciated. We work” in the beginning, and to turn their eyes to future will continue to actively support the program, so that even options and self-reliant lifestyles. Employees are able to more students have an opportunity to take the course. Post-quake Recovery Support Activities in the Tohoku Region of Japan Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Shinsei Bank Prefecture, which is one of the support destinations, we Group employees have continued support activities, implemented the Financial Literacy Program such as visiting areas affected by the earthquake. The “MoneyConnection®” for the first time at a prefectural visiting assist activities support the revitalization of local high school in the city. Many of the regional issues that communities while deepening exchanges with residents surfaced over time after the disaster were universal and through the planning and management of events. were realized from the viewpoint of raising young peoRegular visits also provide employees with a firsthand ple’s awareness as a response to poverty and other opportunity to feel the progress of reconstruction. problems that could occur across generations. Those In fiscal 2019, in collaboration with the Higashiefforts, in which schools and local communities and busiMatsushima City Social Welfare Council in Miyagi nesses collaborate, have attracted a great deal of interest. 72 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 For Shareholders and Investors Basic IR/SR Activities Policy for Fiscal 2019 About the Shinsei Bank Group 1. Improve the accuracy in targeting potential investors 2. Improve the quality of information disseminated internally and externally by strengthening competitive analysis functions, etc. 3. Strengthen the engagement interview approach with investors and analysts IR / SR Activities (Fiscal 2019 Results) Financial results briefings and telephone conferences 8 times IR Day Once Participation in live-streamed IR conferences Approx. 270 (Total of both domestic and overseas) Small group meeting on integrated report Once Interviews with ESG representatives, investment officers and advisory companies 11 times Top Management’s Commitment to IR / SR Briefings for individual investors (at branches of securities companies) 3 times (number of IR / SR meetings in Fiscal 2019) Creating a Positive Impact on Society Lectures by market participants and experts for directors, executive Executive IR/SR 3 times CEO Total officers, and general managers Officers officers IR / SR activity reporting at Board of Directors’ meetings, Group Executive 73 89 62 224 Committee meetings and General Manager meetings, and issuance of 5 times IR / SR report for employees 33% 40% 27% 100% Fiscal 2019 Achievements and Challenges Increase in Number of Meetings with IR/SR Investors Day was held in both Japanese and English through live The number of meetings increased by 8% year on year audio streaming, and investor inquiries were accepted online Our Innovation Stories due to the sale of shares by major shareholders in August as well as responding to them live. In the second integrated 2019 and the resulting changes in the shareholders comreport, which was published in 2019, we enhanced the discloposition, which resulted in more active engagement with sure on our Medium-Term Management Strategy, materiality, persons in charge of exercising voting rights and advisory and ESG information. Subsequently, we exchanged opinions companies for exercising voting rights. In light of the at the “Integrated Report Small Group Meeting” with impact of the MiFID 2 and the decline in demand for domestic equity and debt investors who have a strong interJapanese financial stocks continues, we will continue to est in ESG. Consequently, Shinsei Bank’s Integrated Report focus on cultivating new investors. was selected as the “Excellent Integrated Report” (for the second consecutive year) and the “Most-improved Integrated Improving the Quality of Meetings with IR/SR Investors Report” by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). In Fiscal 2019, we exchanged useful opinions by engaging In IR/SR activities, we are aware of the increasing importance Strong Flexible Support with the responsible investment officers (persons in charge of explaining business initiatives to address sustainability of exercising voting rights) of domestic institutional investors issues that take into account not only governance but also the with our management. By further enhancing the accuracy in materiality of the Shinsei Bank Group. Going forward, we will targeting potential investors, we will engage in meaningful continue to share the opinions of investors to the managedialogue with responsible investment officers and active ment and employees, and endeavor to communicate investors who analyze companies from a mediumto longmanagement information to outside company clearly. term perspective. We will use the Integrated Report as a tool for this dialogue to highlight the features of Shinsei Bank ESG Investors’ Seminar for the Shinsei Bank Group’s ESG Officers from both the financial and nonfinancial perspectives. A seminar by an ESG investor regarding the “understanding, initiatives, disclosure, and dialogue which the ESG investors expect toward companies” was held for ESG officers in the Shinsei Bank Group companies. Data Section The officers who are engaging in the initiatives concerning climate Expansion of Explanations of Nonfinancial Information change or human rights in the divisions such as corporate planning, We held the Shinsei IR Day in February 2020. The Executive businesses, HR, risk management, general services, participated in the seminar and had an active Q&A session. We will continue to provide Officers in charge of focused areas of the Medium-Term opportunities for direct communication on opinions from various frontManagement Strategy made presentations and explained to runners in the capital markets to our management and employees, and we hope that IR / SR / ESG information is helpful to our management. investors the progress of the focused areas. The Shinsei IR SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 73 Data Section ESG Data (Nonconsolidated) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Corporate Governance Number of Directors 7 7 7 Ratio of Female Directors 0% 14.2% 28.6% Number of Outside Directors 5 5 5 Number of Board of Directors Meetings Held 6 6 8 Attendance Rate for the Board of Directors 95% 100% 100% Meetings Note: Governance-related data as of June 30, 2020. Employees Number of Employees 2,188 2,150 2,137 Male 1,265 1,218 1,203 Ratio 58% 57% 56% Female 923 932 934 Ratio 42% 43% 44% Competitive Ratio in Recruitment 31.2 27.0 30.4 (Applicant base) Male 26.2 25.8 27.8 Female 39.5 28.3 33.8 Average Age 41.3 41.7 42.1 Male 40.7 41.1 41.5 Female 42.1 42.5 42.9 12 years 12 years 13 years Average Years of Service 5 months 11 months 4 months 11 years 11 years 12 years Male 1 month 7 months 2 months 14 years 14 years 14 years Female 2 months 7 months 11 months ¥479 ¥477 ¥476 Average Monthly Salary thousand thousand thousand Number of Business-Limited Employees — 146 147 Number of Part-time Employees 267 215 204 Number of Temporary Employees 113 6 6 Number of Overseas Locals Recruited 0 0 0 Number of New University Graduates Hired 53 55 47 Male 33 28 27 Ratio 62% 51% 57% Female 20 27 20 Ratio 38% 49% 43% Number of Mid-career Personnel Recruited 32 38 58 Male 18 19 32 Female 14 19 26 Number of Managers 643 631 663 Number of Female Managers Section Leader-Level or Higher 89 96 118 Ratio 13.8% 15.2% 17.8% Section Manager-Level or Higher 390 412 440 Ratio 30.0% 31.6% 32.7% 74 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 (Nonconsolidated) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 About the Shinsei Bank Group Employees Number of Employed Persons with Disabilities 29 32 33 Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities 1.9% 2.1% 2.1% Average Overtime Hours per Month 19.9 18.7 18.3 Average Paid Leave Acquisition Rate 62.5% 63.7% 65.0% Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave 33 35 31 Male 4 6 5 Female 29 29 26 Number of Employees Taking Life Support Leave 6 7 6 Number of Employees Taking Family Care Leave 4 1 0 Number of Employees Registering for Creating a Positive Impact on Society — 39 57 Concurrent Business or Side Business Ratio of Employees Using Teleworking — 9.5% 70.3% Number of Employees Using Continued 11 10 16 Employment System Number of Employment of Functional Change 60 230 43 or Employment Status Change Male 19 50 14 Female 41 180 29 Note: Number of Employees Taking Life Support Leave means the Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave before January 1, 2018. Environment Arrangement Results of Project Finance for 104.3 142.5 138.5 Our Innovation Stories Renewable Energy (Billions of yen) Environment Impact Data CO2 Emissions (t)1, 2 2,602 2,575 2,425 Electricity Usage (kWh) 1 5,069,080 5,027,896 5,013,949 Gas Usage (m3)1 90,000 114,000 65,000 Clean Water Usage (t) 3 1,758 1,623 1,513 Amount of Waste Generated / Recycling Rate 3 Waste Generated (t) 206 218 200 Amount Recycled (t) 123 138 122 Amount of Waste Disposal (t) 83 80 78 Strong Flexible Support Recycling Rate 60% 63% 61% Notes: 1. D  ata are for all Shinsei Bank Nihonbashi headquarters (excluding affiliated companies), ARCO TOWER (Meguro) and Tokyo Dia Building (Shinkawa). Divisions of the Bank in ARCO TOWER were moved to Tokyo Dia Building (Shinkawa) in September 2019. 2. Calculated using electricity and gas usage according to “Guidelines for Calculating Specified Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume under the Total Emissions Obligations and the Emissions Trading Framework.” 3. Data are for Shinsei Bank Nihonbashi headquarters (excluding affiliated companies). Contribution to Society Financial Literacy Program (MoneyConnection®) (Consolidated) Number of Schools Where the Program was 943 1,058 1,158 Held (Cumulative) Number of Student Participants (Cumulative) 122,811 136,232 148,577 Social Contribution Activities Number of Volunteer Activities 31 33 26 Data Section Number of Employee Participants 628 602 721 Compliance Number of Whistle-Blowing Reports 1 1 1 ESG Management Policy https://www.shinseibank.com/corporate/en/policy/esg/policy.html ESG Information Index https://www.shinseibank.com/corporate/en/policy/esg/esg_index.html SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 75 Data Section Financial Summary Shinsei Bank, Limited, and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 For the fiscal year (Billions of yen) : 1 Total revenue 264.2 262.6 202.9 199.0 General and administrative expenses 170.8 145.3 130.3 130.9 Net credit costs 112.2 68.3 12.2 5.5 Income before income taxes (123.0) 57.7 15.3 53.8 Profit attributable to owners of the parent (140.1) 42.6 6.4 51.0 Balances at fiscal year-end (Billions of yen): Securities 3,233.3 3,286.3 1,873.4 1,842.3 Loans and bills discounted 5,163.7 4,291.4 4,136.8 4,292.4 Lease receivables and leased investment assets 213.7 206.2 197.4 203.5 Total assets 11,376.7 10,231.5 8,609.6 9,029.3 Deposits and negotiable certificates of deposit 6,475.3 5,610.6 5,362.4 5,457.5 Total liabilities 10,741.8 9,620.3 7,982.0 8,345.6 Total equity 634.9 611.1 627.6 683.6 Per share data (Yen): Common equity 232.72 205.83 212.67 233.65 Basic earnings (71.36) 21.36 2.42 19.24 Dividends — 1.00 1.00 1.00 Ratios (%): Return on assets2 (1.2) 0.4 0.1 0.6 Return on equity3 (27.6) 8.5 1.2 8.6 Expenses-to-revenue ratio 64.6 55.3 64.2 65.8 Total capital adequacy ratio (Basel II, Domestic Standard) 8.35 9.76 10.27 12.24 Capital ratio (Basel III, Domestic Standard) — — — — Ratio of nonperforming claims classified under the Financial Revitalization Law to total claims 6.70 6.78 6.66 5.32 1 Since all yen figures have been truncated rather than rounded, the totals do not necessarily equal the sum of the individual amounts. 2 Return on assets is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent by the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the period presented. 3 Return on equity (fully diluted) is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent by the average amount of (total equity – share warrants – noncontrolling interests) at the beginning and end of the period presented. 4 Shinsei Bank consolidated its shares with a rate of ten shares of common stock into one share on October 1, 2017. Common equity per share and basic earnings per share are calculated as if the consolidation of shares had occurred at the beginning of FY2016. Total Revenue Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 80 60 250 239.9 45.5 40 200 20 150 0 0 -150 (FY) 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Earnings had been lifted prior to fiscal 2010 on factors such as The Shinsei Bank Group recorded losses in fiscal 2008 and 2009 gains from repurchasing preferred securities and items such as on the effects of the global financial crisis sparked by the gains on the sale of assets on which loss disposals had been collapse of Lehman Brothers but the Group has continued to recorded in the past. Total revenue has steadily grown since book profits every year since fiscal 2010. The Group is working such one-off gains stopped occurring in fiscal 2011. to improve the quality of earnings by adding more heft to core profits and limiting profits from nonrecurring and high-volatility sources. 76 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 About the Shinsei Bank Group FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 203.0 235.3 216.6 228.5 232.0 229.6 239.9 135.0 144.2 141.3 144.2 142.9 145.7 150.0 0.2 11.8 3.7 31.8 37.2 29.3 39.1 46.0 72.7 62.8 51.7 55.4 54.5 49.2 41.3 67.8 60.9 50.7 51.4 52.3 45.5 1,557.0 1,477.3 1,227.8 1,014.6 1,123.5 1,130.2 957.0 4,319.8 4,461.2 4,562.9 4,833.4 4,895.9 4,986.8 5,110.4 227.7 227.0 211.4 191.4 171.4 176.5 193.4 9,321.1 8,889.8 8,928.7 9,258.3 9,456.6 9,571.1 10,226.5 Creating a Positive Impact on Society 5,850.4 5,452.7 5,800.9 5,862.9 6,067.0 5,922.1 6,305.1 8,598.5 8,136.0 8,135.6 8,437.5 8,600.6 8,674.5 9,316.0 722.5 753.7 793.1 820.7 856.0 896.6 910.4 247.82 275.45 294.41 3,163.89 4 3,376.39 4 3,636.92 3,913.40 15.59 25.57 22.96 194.65 4 199.01 4 211.24 190.59 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 4 10.00 10.00 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 6.5 9.8 8.1 6.3 6.1 6.0 5.1 66.5 61.3 65.3 63.1 61.5 63.4 62.5 — — — — — — — Our Innovation Stories 13.58 14.86 14.20 13.06 12.83 11.85 11.21 3.81 1.42 0.79 0.22 0.17 0.20 0.34 Common Equity Per Share  onperforming Loan Ratio under the Financial N Revitalization Law (Nonconsolidated) (Yen) (Yen) (%) Strong Flexible Support 400 3,913.40 4,000 8 300 3,000 6 200 2,000 4 100 1,000 2 0.34 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 (End of Mar.) (End of Mar.) Common equity per share has continued to increase on a As we have sharply reduced claims classified as nonperforming steady buildup of profits. loans stemming from the global financial crisis sparked by the Data Section collapse of Lehman Brothers, the nonperforming loan ratio Note: S  hinsei Bank consolidated its shares with a rate of ten shares of common stock into one share on October 1, 2017. under the Financial Revitalization Law remains at a low level, and our asset quality has improved. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 77 Data Section Review of Fiscal 2019 Results of Operations Billions of yen (FY) 2019 2018 Change(Amount) Consolidated (Management Accounting Basis) Net interest income 133.5 133.8 -0.3 Noninterest income 106.4 95.9 10.5 Net fees and commissions 32.4 31.3 1.0 Net trading income 15.8 6.6 9.1 Net other business income 58.2 57.8 0.3 Income on lease transactions 40.8 37.5 3.3 and installment receivables Total revenue 239.9 229.7 10.2 General and administrative expenses -149.5 -144.7 -4.8 Ordinary business profit (OBP) 90.4 84.9 5.4 Net credit costs -39.1 -29.3 -9.8 OBP after net credit costs 51.2 55.6 -4.4 Amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets -2.4 -2.8 0.3 Other gains 0.3 1.7 -1.3 Income before income taxes 49.2 54.5 -5.3 Current income tax -4.1 -3.8 -0.3 Deferred income tax 0.0 1.3 -1.2 Profit attributable to noncontrolling interests 0.4 0.2 0.2 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 45.5 52.3 -6.7 Highlights of Fiscal 2019 Results of Operations (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Total revenue was ¥239.9 billion in the current year, of its operations of our new core banking system. increased by ¥10.2 billion from the previous year. Net credit costs was ¥39.1 billion (expense), an increase • Net interest income was ¥133.5 billion, a slight deof ¥9.8 billion from the previous year. This was mainly crease of ¥0.3 billion from ¥133.8 billion in the previous due to the reserves for loan losses to prepare for credit year. This was mainly due to a decrease in the housdeterioration of the borrowers caused by the COVID-19 ing-related loans in APLUS FINANCIAL and the Retail pandemic, in addition to the absence of the reversal of Banking, despite an increase in the operating assets in reserves for loan losses recorded in the previous year in the Structured Finance. the Institutional Business as well as the elimination of • Noninterest income was ¥106.4 billion, an increase of disposal costs associated with the bulk sale of delin¥10.5 billion from ¥95.9 billion in the previous year. This quent loans recorded in the previous year in APLUS was mainly due to an increase in major businesses such FINANCIAL. as shopping credits in APLUS FINANCIAL, steady Reserve for excess interest repayment (Kabarai) was performance in the securities intermediation and Retail reversed by ¥2.6 billion (gain). This includes ¥4.5 billion Banking, gains on sales of stocks in the Institutional reversal in Shinsei Financial, ¥1.7 billion provisioning in Business and of government and other bonds in TreaAPLUS and ¥0.1 billion provisioning in Shinsei Personal sury through our ALM operations. Loan. General and administrative expenses were ¥149.5 Profit attributable to owners of parent resulted in ¥45.5 billion in the current year, an increase of ¥4.8 billion billion. from the previous year. This was mainly due to the newly-acquired consolidated subsidiaries in the current year and the optimization of the group business sites, in addition to systems expenses associated with the start 78 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Financial Ratios Net interest margin improved to 2.47% from 2.46% in Net Interest Margin About the Shinsei Bank Group fiscal 2018, reflecting reduction of deposit related (%) 3.0 funding costs. 2.72 2.5 In asset quality, the ratio of nonperforming loans dis2.47 closed under the Financial Revitalization Law (non-con2.0 solidated basis) remained low at 0.34%. The Risk-Moni1.5 tored Loan Ratio (consolidated basis) stood at 1.71%. 1.0 In capital adequacy, common equity Tier 1 (CET 1) ratio 0.5 under the Basel III international standards (fully loaded 0.26 0 basis) was 11.3%, down from 12.0% at the end of March (FY) 17 18 19 2019. The CET 1 capital increased due to the steady Creating a Positive Impact on Society Yield on Interest-Earning Assets increase of net income while risk assets increased in the Net Interest Margin Structured Finance and Consumer Finance businesses Rate on Interest-Bearing Liabilities as well as the consolidation of Shinko Lease by Showa Leasing. CET 1 ratio continues to be maintained at ample levels.  isk-Monitored Loan Ratio R Shareholder Return NPL Ratio based on Financial Revitalization Law During fiscal 2019, a total of ¥23.5 billion in acquisition (%) 5.0 of treasury shares was completed, aiming to improve per share value, considering current share price, finan4.0 Our Innovation Stories cial/capital condition and market environment. Fiscal 3.0 2019 total shareholder return ratio based on the earnings in fiscal 2018 resulted in 50% including the share 2.0 1.71 buyback and year-end dividends. 1.0 0.34 0 (End of Mar.) 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Total Shareholder Return Risk-Monitored Loan Ratio (Consolidated) Based on Based on Based on Nonperforming Loan Ratio based on Financial Revitalization buyback buyback buyback Law (Nonconsolidated) executed in executed in executed in FY2017(actual) FY2018(actual) FY2019(actual) (%) Strong Flexible Support 50 50 40 Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 30 (Trillions of yen) (%) 20 10 11.3 12 10 0 7.5 7.3 9 (FY) 17 18 19 5.0 6 (Billions of yen, %) FY17 FY18 FY19 Shareholder Shareholder Shareholder 2.5 3 return based on return based on return based on FY16 net income FY17 net income FY18 net income Data Section Total Shareholder 0 0 12.5 15.5 25.9 Return (A) (End of Mar.) 18 19 20 Net Income (B) 50.7 51.4 52.3 Total Shareholder Risk Assets (International Standard; Fully Loaded Basis) (Left) 25% 30% 50% C ommom Equity Tier 1 Ratio (International Standard; Fully Return Ratio (A / B) Loaded Basis) (Right) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 79 Data Section Glossary ESG Fiduciary Duty The responsibility held by a trustee towards their beneficiary. In ESG finance, this refers to the responsibility that financial institutions An acronym for Environment, Social and Corporate have towards their customers and their entrusted assets. Governance, which refers to perspectives important to the longterm growth and development of a company. Finance as a Service Financial product is unbundled and provided as each of funcGHG Emissions tions rather than as a package. CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. Classified into direct emissions by the operator itself (Scope 1), indirect emissions Neobank associated with the use of electricity and other materials supA company that provides financial services in a nonbank indusplied by other companies (Scope 2), and joint emissions outside try but through partnerships with existing banks. the Scope 1 and Scope 2 positions (Scope 3). Nonrecourse Loan Sustainable Finance Nonrecourse Loans are finances for which repayment is made Financial methods for global environmental sustainability. solely from the cash flows generated from specific businesses or assets (typically, but not always real estate), with no recourse to the sponsor. SPC (Special-Purpose Company) Business Sell beneficiary right Transfer proceeds Advisory Current owner Nonrecourse loan Shinsei Bank’s advisory business proposes solutions to meet Trust beneficiary Real estate trust customers’ diverse needs in areas such as M&A, corporate Trust restructuring and fundraising in Japan and overseas. beneficiary rights rights Tokumei Alternative Investment Kumiai Alternative investment is a new investment method, such as pri(TK) investment vate equity and real estate investment, not traditional asset Customer management such as equity or bond. Trust bank (Sponsor) API Platformer API, abbreviation of Application Programming Interface, means A provider of platform and system for users. to link and coordinate more than one software. Principal Transactions Business Succession Support Principal Transactions generally refer to a bank’s proprietary The provision of investments and loans to meet capital requireinvestments. Shinsei Bank proactively makes proprietary investments for the transfer of shares, etc. to customers considering ments in the Credit Trading and Private Equity businesses in family members or employees as business successors in order order to meet customers’ needs for corporate restructuring, to facilitate the smooth handover of business ownership. business succession and growth funds. Cloud (Cloud Service, Cloud Computing) Private Equity A utility form in which computer resources are provided in the In general, Private Equity refers to privately placed shares and form of services via the internet and other computer networks. shares that are not traded in stock exchanges or over-the-counter markets. Private equity investments can be classified into DDoS Attack venture capital, which is an investment to growing companies, A method of server attack in which a number of devices on the and investments to acquire control of mature companies in internet send simultaneous connection requests to a specific order to implement restructuring. Shinsei Bank is proactively network or computer, overburdening it and causing it to engaged in venture capital investments, investing in up to 5% of malfunction. total shares with representative rights of customers planning a public share offering as well as m ­ aking buyout investments Derivative related to business divestments from mature companies. Derivative is a collective term referring to transactions that are derived from or linked to other underlying transactions such as Project Finance interest rate, bond, foreign exchange and equity transactions. Project Finance refers to loans to finance specific projects for They are also called “financial derivatives” since most of the which the principal source of repayment is the cash flow genertransactions originate from financial products. ated from the project itself. Project Finance is often used for mediumto long-term projects in energy, n ­ atural resources and Economic Ecosystem infrastructure. The Economic Ecosystem refers to the entire industry environment and all of its constituent moving parts and their RPA (Robotic Process Automation) interactions, much like the ecosystems of the natural world. RPA refers to technology that allows for the streamlining and automation of the simple tasks such as white-collar labor. 80 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 Shopping Credit Finance About the Shinsei Bank Group Shopping Credit is a service that allows customers to pay for goods or services in installments without using a credit card. Common equity per share The Shinsei Bank Group offers this service primarily through Common equity per share is calculated by dividing common APLUS. equity by the total number of common shares outstanding at Shopping Credit System the end of the term. (4) Lump-sum payment Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the total number of common shares. (1) Merchant partner agreement Merchant Partner Excess Interest Repayment (Kabarai) Prior to the interest rate reduction implemented as part of the (3) Advance payment revisions to the Money Lending Business Law, the interest rates agreement on some consumer finance products offered by the Shinsei Creating a Positive Impact on Society Bank Group’s subsidiaries exceeded the upper limit stipulated (2) Sales agreement for product / service (5) Repayment in installments by the Investment Law. Following a ruling by the Supreme Court Customer in January 2006, customers who paid more than the upper limit (1) APLUS concludes a merchant partner agreement with the merchant partner stipulated by the Investment Law have been allowed to request (2) Customer purchases a product or a service from the merchant partner (3) Customer applies to APLUS for installment sales credit a refund of the extra interest paid. Accordingly, consumer (4) APLUS pays the purchase price for the product / service as a lump sum to finance companies have recorded reserves in order to cover the merchant partner (5) Customer repays the purchase price to APLUS in installments losses on (grey zone) excess interest repayments. Specialty Finance Net Credit Costs Specialty Finance at Shinsei Bank refers to M&A finance, LBO Net Credit Costs are the sum of reserves for loan losses set finance and other types of finance that focus on the cash flows aside (credit costs) according to the credit standing of borrowand value generated by businesses and assets. It is a type of ers, write-off (losses), reversal (gains) of reserves for loan losses structured finance. and recoveries of written-off claims resulting from their disposal. Our Innovation Stories Structured Finance Nonperforming loan ratio under the Financial Revitalization Structured Finance refers to finance requiring special structures. Law In general, it takes the form of project finance or nonrecourse Nonperforming loan ratio is the ratio of nonperforming claims finance which focuses on the cash flows or value generated by a under the Financial Revitalization Law to total claims. specific project or asset. Shinsei Bank is primarily active in real estate finance, project finance, M&A finance and c­ orporate Ordinary Business Profit (Loss) restructuring finance. Ordinary Business Profit (Loss)—the indicator of profit (loss) from core business after expenses—is calculated by subtracting Syndicated Loans “expenses” from “total r­ evenue.” “Net credit costs” are excludSyndicated Loans are loans provided jointly by a syndication of ed from this calculation. multiple financial institutions (lender group) based on a single loan agreement. Profit attributable to owners of the parent Profit attributable to owners of the parent indicates the final UI / UX profit over a twelve-month fi ­ scal term in accounting terms. Strong Flexible Support UI (User Interface) is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur, such as font or graphical content. Total Return Ratio UX (User Experience) refers to a person’s experience by using a The Total Return Ratio shows the magnitude of a company’s particular product or service. shareholder returns. Unsecured Loan Total Revenue A type of loan / product offered by financial institutions such as Total Revenue is composed of “Net interest income” such as banks and consumer finance companies that enables a consuminterest from loans and “Noninterest income” such as fee er to borrow without security. income, as indicated by gross profit from core business operations. Data Section SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 81 Data Section Financial Statements (Consolidated) Please see Shinsei Bank’s Integrated Report 2020 Data Appendix for supplemental financial information (including Notes). CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Shinsei Bank, Limited, and its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2020 2019 2020 ASSETS Cash and due from banks (Notes 4, 23 and 36) ¥ 1,614,134 ¥ 1,355,966 $ 14,912,550 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions (Note 36) － 2,119 － Other monetary claims purchased (Notes 5 and 36) 63,575 30,994 587,354 Trading assets (Notes 6, 23, 36 and 37) 213,707 204,415 1,974,385 Monetary assets held in trust (Notes 7, 23 and 36) 415,107 305,879 3,835,062 Securities (Notes 8, 23 and 36) 957,040 1,130,286 8,841,834 Loans and bills discounted (Notes 9, 23 and 36) 5,110,404 4,986,839 47,213,640 Foreign exchanges (Note 10) 73,879 29,546 682,551 Lease receivables and leased investment assets (Notes 23, 33 and 36) 193,445 176,553 1,787,186 Other assets (Notes 11, 23, 36 and 37) 1,007,605 851,287 9,308,998 Premises and equipment (Notes 12, 23 and 33) 69,414 45,341 641,300 Intangible assets (Notes 13 and 33) 67,073 67,189 619,676 Assets for retirement benefits (Note 20) 5,683 10,931 52,511 Deferred tax assets (Note 30) 16,977 15,096 156,854 Customers’ liabilities for acceptances and guarantees (Note 21) 526,520 456,759 4,864,384 Reserve for credit losses (Note 14) (107,998) (98,034) (997,766) Total assets ¥ 10,226,571 ¥ 9,571,172 $ 94,480,520 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities: Deposits, including negotiable certificates of deposit (Notes 15, 23 and 36) ¥ 6,305,161 ¥ 5,922,145 $ 58,251,673 Call money (Notes 36) 165,000 145,000 1,524,390 Payables under repurchase agreements (Notes 23 and 36) 38,956 59,098 359,908 Payables under securities lending transactions (Notes 23 and 36) 350,407 510,229 3,237,321 Trading liabilities (Notes 16, 36 and 37) 183,943 182,363 1,699,400 Borrowed money (Notes 17, 23 and 36) 881,991 684,077 8,148,482 Foreign exchanges (Note 10) 687 471 6,356 Short-term corporate bonds (Note 36) 221,300 191,000 2,044,531 Corporate bonds (Notes 18 and 36) 166,500 92,335 1,538,248 Other liabilities (Notes 19, 23, 36 and 37) 404,973 347,383 3,741,437 Accrued employees’ bonuses 8,560 8,598 79,086 Accrued directors’ bonuses 47 44 443 Liabilities for retirement benefits (Note 20) 8,422 8,232 77,811 Reserve for directors' retirement benefits 50 － 465 Reserve for reimbursement of deposits 621 － 5,746 Reserve for reimbursement of debentures 3,513 3,764 32,456 Reserve for losses on interest repayments 49,308 63,025 455,550 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 30) 119 － 1,107 Acceptances and guarantees (Notes 21, 23 and 36) 526,520 456,759 4,864,384 Total liabilities 9,316,086 8,674,529 86,068,796 Equity: Common stock (Note 24) 512,204 512,204 4,732,119 Capital surplus 78,506 78,506 725,299 Stock acquisition rights (Note 25) 125 99 1,164 Retained earnings 389,600 346,562 3,599,412 Treasury stock, at cost (Note 24) (61,097) (37,729) (564,460) Accumulated other comprehensive income: Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities (Note 8) 4,755 10,041 43,936 Deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting (15,719) (16,391) (145,230) Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,670) (1,527) (15,430) Defined retirement benefit plans (Note 20) (3,585) 378 (33,123) Total 903,120 892,143 8,343,686 Noncontrolling interests 7,364 4,498 68,038 Total equity 910,485 896,642 8,411,724 Total liabilities and equity ¥ 10,226,571 ¥ 9,571,172 $ 94,480,520 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 82 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF About the Shinsei Bank Group INCOME Shinsei Bank, Limited, and its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2020 2019 2020 Interest income: Interest on loans and bills discounted ¥ 140,216 ¥ 140,177 $ 1,295,418 Interest and dividends on securities 10,794 12,531 99,727 Interest on deposits with banks 1,121 1,162 10,362 Other interest income 1,645 971 15,203 Total interest income 153,777 154,843 1,420,711 Creating a Positive Impact on Society Interest expenses: Interest on deposits, including negotiable certificates of deposit 6,357 7,802 58,733 Interest and discounts on debentures － 0 － Interest on other borrowings 2,918 3,356 26,965 Interest on corporate bonds 283 466 2,616 Other interest expenses 10,707 9,401 98,925 Total interest expenses 20,266 21,027 187,239 Net interest income 133,510 133,816 1,233,471 Fees and commissions income 59,213 55,332 547,057 Fees and commissions expenses 26,782 23,981 247,434 Net fees and commissions 32,431 31,351 299,623 Net trading income (loss) (Note 26) 15,821 6,673 146,174 Other business income (loss), net: Income on lease transactions and installment receivables, net 40,840 37,525 377,314 Our Innovation Stories Net gain (loss) on monetary assets held in trust 3,407 2,535 31,483 Net gain (loss) on foreign exchanges 64 6,719 598 Net gain (loss) on securities 4,787 378 44,229 Net gain (loss) on other monetary claims purchased 194 809 1,801 Other, net (Note 27) 8,937 9,886 82,568 Net other business income (loss) 58,232 57,854 537,993 Total revenue 239,996 229,696 2,217,261 General and administrative expenses: Personnel expenses 58,065 56,509 536,449 Premises expenses 20,134 19,679 186,016 Technology and data processing expenses 24,952 23,265 230,526 Advertising expenses 11,433 10,951 105,629 Consumption and property taxes 10,489 10,406 96,914 Deposit insurance premium 1,581 1,645 14,613 Strong Flexible Support Other general and administrative expenses 23,400 23,275 216,194 General and administrative expenses 150,057 145,734 1,386,341 Amortization of goodwill and intangible assets acquired in business combinations 2,436 2,811 22,510 Total general and administrative expenses 152,494 148,545 1,408,851 Net business profit (loss) 87,502 81,150 808,409 Net credit costs (recoveries) (Note 28) 39,183 29,348 362,003 Other gains (losses), net (Note 29) 881 2,782 8,139 Income (loss) before income taxes 49,200 54,584 454,546 Income taxes (benefit) (Note 30): Current 4,119 3,810 38,056 Deferred (45) (1,306) (419) Profit 45,126 52,080 416,909 Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (449) (239) (4,154) Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 45,575 ¥ 52,319 $ 421,063 Data Section Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Basic earnings per share (Note 31) ¥ 190.59 ¥ 211.24 $ 1.76 Diluted earnings per share (Note 31) ¥ 190.55 ¥ 211.22 $ 1.76 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 83 Data Section Stock and Credit Rating Information Stock Information (As of March 31, 2020) Shares Outstanding and Capital (1,000 shares, millions of yen) Shares outstanding Capital Capital surplus Date Change Balance Change Balance Change Balance Notes 2-for-1 reverse share split for common shares July 29, 2003 (1,358,537) 2,033,065 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Post reverse split common shares outstanding 1,358,537 thousand shares Use of call feature for Series 3 Class-B preferred shares July 31, 2006 (99,966) 1,933,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Issuance of 200,033 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares -300,000 thousand shares Cancellation of treasury shares (common) November 16, 2006 (85,000) 1,848,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 -85,000 thousand shares Mandatory acquisition of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares August 1, 2007 (100,000) 1,748,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Issuance of 200,000 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares -300,000 thousand shares Third-party allocation of shares (common shares) February 4, 2008 117,647 1,865,746 1 25,000 476,296 25,000 43,558 Subscription price ¥425, par value ¥212.5 Use of call feature for Series 2 Class-A preferred shares March 31, 2008 194,600 2,060,346 — 476,296 — 43,558 Issuance of 269,128 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 2 Class-A preferred shares -74,528 thousand shares New shares issued through International Offering March 15, 2011 690,000 2,750,346 35,907 512,204 35,907 79,465 (common shares) Subscription price ¥108, par value ¥52.04 10-for-1 reverse share split for common shares October 1, 2017 (2,475,312) 275,034 — 512,204 — 79,465 Post reverse split common shares outstanding 275,034 thousand shares Cancellation of treasury shares (common) May 18, 2018 (16,000) 259,034 — 512,204 — 79,465 -16,000 thousand shares 1 Figures include number of preferred shares outstanding Largest Shareholders Beneficial Ownership / Type of Shareholder Common Stock Thousands of Japanese Financial Rank Shareholders % Common Shares Institutions and 1 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED 28,290 10.92% Insurance Companies 24.19% 2 Deposit Insurance Corporation of Japan 26,912 10.38% 259,034 Japanese Securities 3 SBI Holdings, Inc. 21,926 8.46% thousand Companies 0.76% common shares Other Japanese THE RESOLUTION AND COLLECTION 4 20,000 7.72% Corporations 19.13% CORPORATION THE MASTER TRUST BANK OF JAPAN, LTD. (TRUST Foreign Institutional 5 14,013 5.40% Investors 40.89% ACCOUNT) Foreign Individual 6 SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 9,110 3.51% Investors 0.04% JAPAN TRUSTEE SERVICES BANK, LTD. (TRUST Japanese Individuals 7 8,131 3.13% ACCOUNT 9) and Other 14.98% JAPAN TRUSTEE SERVICES BANK, LTD. (TRUST 8 6,062 2.34% ACCOUNT) Notes: 1 “Japanese Financial Institutions and Insurance Companies” includes the Resolution and Collection Corporation. 9 GOLDMAN SACHS & CO. 6,044 2.33% 2 “Other Japanese Corporations” includes the Deposit 10 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505103 4,047 1.56% Insurance Corporation. 11 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 3,385 1.30% 3 “Japanese Individuals and Other” includes treasury shares. Total (includes treasury shares) 259,034 100.00% Note: A s of March 31, 2020, in total, the Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Resolution and Collection Corporation hold 46,912,888 common shares or 20.33% of Shinsei Bank’s outstanding common shares, excluding treasury shares. Ratings Information (As of June 30, 2020) Long-Term (Outlook) Short-Term R&I A(Stable) a-1 JCR A(Stable) J-1 S&P BBB (Stable) A-2 Moody’s Baa1 (Stable) Prime-2 84 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2020 For further information, please contact: Group Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Division Shinsei Bank, Limited 4-3, Nihonbashi-muromachi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8303, Japan URL: https://www.shinseibank.com/english/ E-mail: Shinsei_IR@shinseibank.com 4-3, Nihonbashi-muromachi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8303, Japan TEL: 81-3-6880-7000 URL: https://www.shinseibank.com/english/
