COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT NAME OF THE PARTICIPATING COMPANY: VAPTECH COUNTRY: BULGARIA SECTOR: HEAVY MACHINE BUILDING INDUSTRY REPORTED PERIOD: 1 August 2019 – 30 July 2020 2 CONTENT: Statement of continued support for the Global Compact…………………………….. 3 Description of practical actions taken to implement the Global Compact principles……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Human Rights…………………………………………………………………………………….. 6 Labor Standards……………………………………………………………………………….... 9 Environment………………………………………………………………………………………. 12 Anti-Corruption………………………………………………………………………………….. 15 Sharing the COP with the company’ stakeholders……………………………………….. 16 3 Statement of continued support for the Global Compact Compact Sofia, Bulgaria Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact We at VAPTECH firmly believe that for a company to be successful it should not be only concerned by economical gain. We attach highest priority to always maintaining our status of a good corporate citizen and to advance into reaching new moral and spiritual levels: the ever higher social responsibility. This can be only materialized through very demanding requirements for personal integrity, values, mission and vision of our people. We at VAPTECH recognize UN Global Compact’ principals as being the guidelines towards reaching this aim and are committed to follow and promote them on a sustainable basis. BONEV, B., Chairman, Supervisory Board 4 The Management and employees of VAPTECH are committed to adopting and promoting sustainability within its industry, business activities, operations and communities where it operates internationally. VAPTECH states its contribution to business sustainability, as follows: TRANSFORMS THE TEN PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTS ACTIONS WITHIN COMMITS TO PROVIDE NEW INTO MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR OPPORTUNITIES FOR AND POLICIES FOR ITS ACTIVITIES STANDARDS, ENVIRONMENT AND IMPROVEMENT AND AND PROCESSES ANTI-CORRUPTION AREAS CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT AND SATISFACTION OF ITS EMPLOYEES, BUSINESS PARTNERS AND COMMUNITY 5 Human Rights Principles VAPTECH POLICY Principle 1: Businesses should support The people, the communities and all and respect the protection of stakeholders are the basis for the internationally proclaimed human rights; sustainable development of VAPTECH. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals ANY FORM OF DISCRIMINATION ENCOURAGEMENT AND VAPTECH DECLARES TO RESPECT IS NOT TOLERATED IN DEVELOPMENT OF OUR STAFF IS AND SUPPORTS IN ITS ACTIVITIES ACCORDANCE WITH THE VALID PART OF VAPTECH CORPORATE THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND CODE OF ETHICS CULTURE INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS CONVENTION VAPTECH’ Code of Ethics supporting UNGC and the 10 principles: To be part of VAPTECH’ Team, one needs to have the following moral principles and behaviors: 1. We are honest and ethical in all our actions, meaning: 1.1 To be honest with yourself and others (no hidden agendas) 1.2 We act with dignity and respect the dignity of the others 1.3 We demonstrate loyalty to our company, team and colleagues 1.4 We respect every given commitment 1.5 We show consistency in all our actions and behaviors 1.6 In the process of communication, we behave politely, respectfully, ensuring good tone and manners 2. Punctuality is a must: 2.1. Discipline: Working time, quality and deadlines are strictly respected 2.2. Highest degree of responsibility in the process of performing the tasks 3. We work with precision: 3.1. We constantly strive for precise execution. We love paying attention to details Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 3.2. We learn from our mistakes and those of our colleagues, we do not overlook them, disguise human rights within their sphere of influence; and them or blame others Principle for sure 2: make themthat they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3.3. We constantly strive for personal improvement and development 4. Innovative thinking and continuous change, in compliance with an ever-changing world, is the only way to maintain a growing and sustainable company at all times 5. Respect of the law: VAPTECH complies with the laws of all countries where it operates 6. VAPTECH keeps all information related to its activities, its clients and partners strictly confidential 7. VAPTECH does not tolerate conflicts of interests A conflict of interests is any situation where the employee's personal interests are in conflict with his duties or prevent him from taking objective business decisions. 8. VAPTECH is member of the UN Global Compact and respects its principles in all its 6 activities Human Rights Principles Social benefits for the employees 1. Dental care – VAPTECH provides free dental care for its employees. 2. Canteen – VAPTECH sponsors the meals of its employees. 3. Food vouchers 4. Additional health insurance 5. Company transport – VAPTECH provides free transportation to its employees VAPTECH ACADEMY AND TALENT MANAGEMENT 2019-2020 • Introductory trainings for new employees • Project management training • Employees Survey about their direct Manager • Seminars for optimization of: Customer service Internal communication and communication with the clients Participation in tenders • Management training: Decision making process Conflict management Emotional intelligence • Improve Skills and Qualification • Negotiations • Quality management training • Health and Safety awareness Trainings performed during the reported period: Trainings 2019/2020 Topics When Departments involved Participants Internal Auditing acc. to ISO 9001 QMS 2019/2020 Quality Control 2 Enhancement of the qualification – work with CNC machines 2019 Machine operators 15 Qualification course for crane operators 2019 Crane operators 4 Head of workshops, First Aid training 2019 Technician 11 Members8 of the Working Safety and health at work 2019 Conditions Committee 9 Electrical networks 2019 Software Design 4 Production processes presses machines 2019 Sales team Metal Forming 5 Sales team Metal Forming Seminar with sales representatives 2019 (Local and International) 25 FMEA Team-oriented training in risk management and problem solving techniques 2019 Project Management 4 Programming of controllers (updates and development) 2020 Software Design 4 7 Human Rights Principles Use of technical means of measurement 2020 Quality Control 7 Introduction of a new CNC operator 2020 Production 1 Installation works on site: principles and procedures 2020 Production 2 Technical properties of the Steel 2020 Design 25 Mechanics 2020 Design 4 Refurbishments in the Hydropower sector 2020 Hydro team 10 Commercial skills conducting business meetings; Negotiating and dealing with objections; Assertiveness during negotiations 2020 Sales 10 142 Total Table 1 VAPTECH’ CARE Employees’ motivation  Regular feedback on the job  Professional trainings for improving self-confidence and competencies  Feedback from workers to their supervisors (evaluating leadership performance by the team members)  Participation of the employees in the decision making processes  Illness benefits and assistance for employees with long-term professional contribution to the company  Performance-based annual bonuses for the employees  Updates of VAPTECH’ Education and Self-Learning online platform VAP Online  Individual profiles of VAPTECH’s employees in the platform VAP Online; Traceability of the employees individual career development Family care • Vouchers for newborns • Vouchers for school graduates • Vouchers for first day at school Volunteering initiatives  Long-term partnership and traditional participation in Manager for a Day initiative, organized by Junior Achievement Bulgaria.  VAPTECH collaborates with Amalipe Center for Interethnic Dialogue and Tolerance with the aim to support integration of Roma in the Bulgarian society.  Sponsorship for New Symphony Orchestra 8 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the VAPTECH POLICY freedom of association and the effective Company policy on Labour recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; VAPTECH maintains Occupational Health and Safety Management System according Principle 5: The effective abolition of child to OHSAS 18001:2007 standard labour; Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. VAPTECH’s factory building was renovated and finalized in 2019 The Management of VAPTECH is fully committed to highest level of Health and Safety (HS) standards and overall respect of UNGC 10 principles. VAPTECH focuses on the prevention of all possible risks for its employees as well as on the improvement and sharing the best practices with suppliers and business partners. In this respect VAPTECH has the following objectives: 1. Focusing on prevention: 9 Labour Principles  A Working Conditions Committee (WCC) at VAPTECH is working in accordance with the requirements of the Health and Safety Working Conditions Act. WCC conducts regular meetings in order to develop and constantly improve the procedures for risk assessment and elimination.  Investments of 3.5 mil Euro for new machinery and renovation of the VAPTECH’s factory in order to: + Improve the working conditions of the employees at the factory + Reduce the cost of heating during the winter  In accordance with all governmental regulations and following to best practices in slowing down the spread of COVID-19, VAPTECH established strict instructions for the working processes in the company.  During this difficult times related with the COVID-19 pandemic, VAPTECH remained OPEN and WORKING to ensure a continued level of highest quality products and services to its esteemed clients and partners. The company takes extraordinary care and measures of the health of its employees by providing protective masks, extra hygiene products, daily temperature checks, tests and strict rules for distancing and opportunity for home office work, among others. 2. Compliance with applicable legal and internal requirements:  Procedure for the monitoring and evaluation of the compliance of OHS management system 10 Labour Principles 3. Training and enhancement on personal responsibility of employees on risk prevention:  Instructions in HS are conducted by authorized personnel, as well as internal and external trainings of VAPTECH employees are provided 4. Active cooperation with authorized organizations in the field of occupational health and safety:  HS Expert actively cooperates and maintains communication with local authorities in HS and Labor officials – Labour Inspectorate office in Pleven  HS Expert participates at all trainings related to the introduction of new legislation, innovation and best practices in the field. VAPTECH LABOUR CONDITIONS INDICATORS The data and statistics for the reported period 1. Registered working accidents or injuries during the reported period: 0 working accident Training and seminars on HS: indicated in Table 1 Lean management VAPTECH applies and maintains 5S methodology in respect to the working spaces in the company. 5S is a technique for creating a new, clean and orderly organization of workplaces. the goal is to eliminate losses and increase productivity and job security in the individual working places. STRATEGIC PLANNING – HOSHIN KANRI  Successful accomplishment of the strategic goals for 2019  Updated Strategy Plan 2022 in the following fields: Sales, Finance, Production and Improvements.  Five action plans for 2020 have been developed and their implementation is planned to be completed by the end of 2020. Review of the strategic and tactical objectives will be made and, if necessary the Strategy will be updated and new action plans to be implemented in 2021 11 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a VAPTECH POLICY precautionary approach to Company policy on Environment protection environmental challenges; VAPTECH maintains Environmental Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Management System according to promote greater environmental ISO 14001:2015 standard responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. The Management of VAPTECH is committed to respect the Environmental Policy stated in the Company Management Policy. The document has been periodically audited and is accessible on visible locations at VAPTECH’ premises. VAPTECH RESPONSIBILITY VAPTECH determines the activities and their outcomes that can have a significant impact on the environment and established objectives in order to comply with the environment norms. 1. Compliance with applicable legal requirements  Available sources for to-date information about changes in government regulations on environment protection 2. VAPTECH contributes to the environment by reducing CO2 emissions:  During the period August 2019 July 2020 VAPTECH has installed hydropower equipment for hydropower plants in the Balkans, Turkey, Norway, Caucasus region and South East Asia with estimated capacity of approximately 80 MW. The generated electricity of the HPPs will contribute with 220 times less CO2 emissions, or approximately 22 ton less CO2 emissions in the environment compared to coal usage1 3. Improvement of working environment and care for environment protection  Monitoring and measurement of key environmental factors (dust, gas emissions, noise, paint dissolvers emissions). The data for the reported period is indicated in Table 2. 4. Provision of necessary training of employees  Information brochure for the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 standards has been prepared: The objective of this brochure is to explain in a simple manner to the employees that 1 https://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar5/wg3/ipcc_wg3_ar5_full.pdf 12 EnvironmentalPrinciples Environmental Principles  most of the activities performed at the company are in practice requirements of the standards. 5. Active cooperation with regulatory bodies and all other stakeholders  During the reported period, there are zero signals and/or complaints regarding any ecological issues caused by VAPTECH. VAPTECH ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS VAPTECH data and statistics for the reported period Regular report and analysis of the data on natural gas, electricity and gas composites for welding consumption (Table 2). During the reported period and in comparison with the previous reporting period the following trends are observed:  Reduction of the consumption of all energy resources (app. with 5%);  Increased separation of metal turnings;  Increased separation of hazardous waste (the company already is considering measures to reduce this trend in the coming months) As per the legal requirements on hazardous chemical substances VAPTECH has the obligation to fill data sheets of official manufacturers and importers of chemicals. All employees working with the respective chemicals are trained on their usage. As per the legal requirements on waters – VAPTECH has no obligations. VAPTECH has a contract with a state company for water treatment. The state water company regulates the need of measuring the admissible degree of water pollution regarding the physical, chemical and industrial indices. VAPTECH ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION INITIATIVES Environmental Principles VAPTECH constantly strives to preserve the environment and to protect the Planet. Sharing this common objective, TOYOTA & VAPTECH initiated long-term cooperation with regard to TOYOTA Hybrid vehicles that VAPTECH is using for its operations. 13 Environmental Principles Data with VAPTECH’s energy resources consumption: August 2017 – July 2018 August 2018 – July 2019 Energy resource gJ/m3 Energy resource gJ/m3 Natural Gas 6535 Natural Gas 6109 Electrical Power 6217 Electrical Power 5892 Gas composites 1136 Gas composites 1034 Total 13888 Total 13035 Non hazardous wastes Non hazardous wastes metal turnings 507 metal turnings 510 non ferrous metals 9.95 non ferrous metals 2.3 scraps 12.7 scraps 11.3 total 529.65 total 523.6 Hazardous wastes Hazardous wastes other 0.48 *1 other 0.8 *1 0.0 0.0 gear oil *2 gear oil *2 0.48 0.8 total total Main source of Main source of Environmental factor Conformance Environmental factor Conformance pollution pollution Dust Yes blasting Dust Yes blasting chamber chamber Noise Yes production Noise Yes production buildings buildings Waste waters Yes industrial Waste waters Yes industrial Paint dissolvers organized Yes emissions Paint dissolvers organized Yes emissions emissions emissions Paint dissolvers non Yes emissions Paint dissolvers non Yes emissions organized emissions organized emissions Flue gas emissions Yes heat Flue gas emissions Yes heat Remarks: Remarks: *1 temporary storage before handling over *1 temporary storage before handling over *2 handling over to authorized supplier *2 handling over to authorized supplier VAPTECH Ltd. VAPTECH Ltd. Table 2 14 Anti-Corruption Principles The actions undertaken and in line with “Fight with corruption and prevention of corruption activities at the company” are: Principle 10: Businesses should work against 1. VAPTECH conducts its business and its relationships with all stakeholders in an ethical manner that is supervised by a Compliance Committee, led corruption in all its forms, by Mr. Svetlozar Ivanov, who is part of VAPTECH’s Management. The including extortion and Committee aims to foster an environment and a culture that promote bribery prevention, detection, investigation and resolution of any misconduct. 2. During the period August 2019 July 2020 the Compliance Committee has registered: a. Zero signals of corruption reported by VAPTECH employees b. Zero signals of corruption reported by customers and/or suppliers. 3. Cash flow management is regularly performed in the following manner: a. Weekly monitoring over the income cash flows b. Weekly monitoring over the outcome cash flow with the participation of the Purchase and Production Managers. Both processes are analyzed and supervised by VAPTECH’s Finance Department and General Managers. c. Following to the situation with the coronavirus and its impact on all business processes, VAPTECH initiated actions towards optimization of its direct costs. The monitoring of the process is carried out on a daily basis by the Finance Director of the company d. VAPTECH’s subsidiary in Germany has been closed 15 Sharing the COP with the company’ stakeholders This Communication on progress report and enclosures are published on VAPTECH official web site at: https://vaptech.bg/pages/sustainability Contact person: Mariela Spasova Marketing & Sales Manager Contact information: T: +359 2 984 16 00 F: +359 2 984 16 01 M: +359 885 655 256 E: office.sofia@vaptech.bg mariela.spasova@vaptech.bg A: 51B Bulgaria blvd., office Building Block “B”, floor 8 1404 Sofia, Bulgaria www.vaptech.bg Date of submission: 30/07/2020 16
