SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ESG REPORT 2019 Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Statement cf. Section 99A of the Danish Financial Statements Act for the financial year 2019. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 2 CONTENTS SimCorp at a glance 3 1. Acting responsibly 5 2. Policies, business model, and CSR/ESG focus areas 6 2. 1. Social and labor matters 2.2. Human rights, anti-corruption, and bribery 2.3. Environment 3. Stakeholder engagement 12 4. Whistleblower Policy 13 5. ESG Report 2019 14 6. UN Sustainable Development Goals 16 7. Report profile 19 SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 3 SIMCORP AT A GLANCE SIMCORP IS The leading provider of native integrated, multi-asset, front-to-back investment management solutions to the world’s largest investment companies A growth company that will strengthen its capacity and ability to innovate through an ecosystem of partners Committed to providing value to our clients, shareholders, employees, and society alike A challenging and diverse workplace for our dedicated and talented employees, who are all curious and capable, collaborate, and have courage A strong business partner with +45 years of experience and an unprecedented implementation track record Unique in allocating around 20% of revenue to R&D OUR PRODUCTS Front-to-back investment management solution for the Italian insurance market. SimCorp’s core system provides multi-asset class support across the investment value chain. Dedicated enterprise data management solution for reference and market data management. Dedicated solution for client communications and reporting automation. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 4 A GLOBAL COMPANY SEGMENTS SERVED Asset management Fund management Insurance Life/pension Asset servicing Treasury Central banks Sovereign wealth 26 1,871 63 Wealth management LOCATIONS EMPLOYEES NATIONALITIES A STRONG REVENUE CLIENT BASE 45% 454.5m EUR of the top 100 investment ­managers ­worldwide are SimCorp Dimension clients. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 5 1. ACTING RESPONSIBLY Acting responsibly is part of our DNA at SimCorp – as a company, as an employer, and as corporate citizens. We set environmental, social, and governance (ESG) goals, and commit to helping our clients reach their ESG goals. We want to contribute to sustainability, while generating economic value for all our stakeholders; clients, shareholders, employees, and society alike. SimCorp’s Corporate Social CONTRIBUTING TO WEALTHIER LIVES Responsibility (CSR) policy is Contributing to positive ESG investing is just one way founded on our core values, our that working at SimCorp means building one’s career ‘Corporate Governance Guideon software solutions that have a positive sustainability lines’, and our commitment to impact around the world. Our investment management corporate sustainable developsolutions are currently empowering the investment ment. Guided by this policy, we strategies of clients responsible for funds worth combine financial performance trillions of dollars. That’s a lot of life savings and with socially responsible behavpensions, ultimately giving people around the globe ior, timely governance, and environmental awareness. more financial security and more opportunities to fulfil their dreams and live wealthier lives. In short, we’re WORKING FOR POSITIVE SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT enabling a more transparent, more efficient financial Across our company, we actively integrate social, industry, creating more value for all of us. labor, environmental, anti-corruption, bribery, and human rights concerns into our processes, policies, STAYING ACCOUNTABLE and activities. We believe that SimCorp’s combined In 2019, SimCorp has become a signatory to the UN CSR activities and the ESG goals we set and strive to Global Compact. This report is our first Communicaachieve will benefit all our stakeholders and strengthtion on Progress (COP) concerning our actions to en our profile and attractiveness as an employer. integrate the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environWe support an increasing trend in our client and ment, and anti-corruption into our business strategy, shareholder communities to consider non-financial culture, and daily operations. This year, we have added factors in the investment process. Many of our clients more reporting metrics to our ESG report and set KPIs are managing funds on behalf of people who are for those metrics related to the UN Global Compact’s increasingly demanding an ESG responsible investment Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development profile. We already support exclusion of undesirable Goals (SDGs) on which we have the most opportunity ESG investment characteristics and we want to expand and direct impact through our business. Going forward, our support to also enable selection of desirable ESG we will continue to focus our efforts on those areas investment characteristics. Our integrated front-towhich we regard as most important and impactful. back platform provides full transparency and gives us a We also commit to submitting our annual COP as we unique ability to build out our solutions in this space, believe that transparency builds trust and we want to hereby creating positive ESG impact for our clients and stay accountable for acting responsibly. their stakeholders. This opportunity makes supporting our clients’ ESG investing a natural focus area for SimCorp going forward. Klaus Holse SIMCORP’S CORPORATE SOCIAL CEO, SimCorp RESPONSIBILITY POLICY SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 6 2. POLICIES, BUSINESS MODEL, AND CSR/ESG FOCUS AREAS POLICIES AND GUIDELINES Our approach to CSR is integrated in how we do BUSINESS MODEL business and described in our policies and guidelines, RESOURCES INVESTMENT VALUE MANAGEMENT CREATION including our: INDUSTRY Software • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Capital updates Professional For clients: Licenses and support services • Diversity and Inclusion Policy provided by investors Growth Reduced cost • Guideline for Good Business Behavior Risk mitigation • Remuneration Guidelines • Corporate Governance Guidelines Revenue For shareholders: Return on invested investment back in R&D SimCorp product offerings: as adopted by our Board of Directors. SimCorp Dimension® SimCorp Gain® For employees SimCorp Coric® and society: A talented, SimCorp Sofia® Jobs, salary, THESE DOCUMENTS CAN ALL skilled, and diverse staff tax and GDP contribution BE FOUND ON OUR WEBSITE Our policies and guidelines, as well as our contracts, CSR/ESG FOCUS AREAS are aimed at addressing any risks that our business Reflecting who we are as a company, we run a could generate concerning social and labor matters, number of activities to support the Ten Principles of human rights, anti-corruption, bribery, and the envithe UN Global Compact and our CSR/ESG focus ronment. We commit to ensuring a sustained adherareas: ence to the principles by carrying out training and information activities and continuous monitoring. • Social and labor matters; • Human rights, anti-corruption, and bribery; BUSINESS MODEL • Impact on the environment. SimCorp’s business model is highly transparent and builds on three main revenue drivers: Our performance on a selection of non-financial metrics, including environmental, social, governance • software licenses; (ESG) matters, are covered further in the ESG report • software updates and support; further below. SimCorp’s compliance with the Danish • professional services. Corporate Governance recommendations are covered in the Corporate Governance Report, which is part of Our purpose in society is to generate economic value the management report of SimCorp’s Annual Report for all our stakeholders; clients, shareholders, employ2019. ees, and society alike. FROM CSR TO ESG: EVALUATING AND MEASURING OUR COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Today, ‘corporate social responsibility’ (CSR) – reflected in a company’s responsible behavior – is often translated into quantifiable ‘environmental, social, and governance’ (ESG) criteria to be fulfilled and reported on by the company in addition to its financial indicators. In brief, ESG is about ‘the criteria used to evaluate a company’s commitment to CSR’, and ESG performance is about measuring ‘corporate sustainable performance’. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 7 2.1. SOCIAL AND LABOR MATTERS We run a comprehensive training program, which aims Employee programs to ensure that all employees update and develop their We regard the continual development of our employqualifications on a regular basis. An important feature ees’ competences and their social, mental, and physiof SimCorp’s training program is the SimCorp Dimencal well-being and safety to be of high importance. In sion Academy certification program, which is mandaall our business, and to realize our strategic priorities, tory for all new SimCorp Dimension consultants and we rely on our employees’ financial expertise, software developers. A global well-being program is also in skills, and diversity. Approximately 90% of our emplace, including a number of regular activities, which ployees hold an academic degree, most of them in focus on the social, mental and physical well-being of finance, economics, IT, and/or engineering, and we all employees. have a strong focus on ongoing training and knowledge sharing. Our Working Environment Organization (WEO) at SimCorp headquarters (HQ) is established to manage New employees are informed about the SimCorp code and bring attention to health and safety in our work of conduct and how we do business, all outlined in our environment. At HQ, we run a workplace assessment Guideline for Good Business Behavior. In addition, all every third year to ensure that employee input on SimCorp policies and procedures are available on our health and safety is discussed and considered. intranet. Employees at HQ have a WEO representative to whom any working environment issue should be reported. We make a sustained, targeted effort to be able to attract and retain a highly talented, qualified, and diverse staff. (Re. diversity, see also box below ’Focus 2.2 HUMAN RIGHTS, ANTI-CORRUPTION, AND on women in management’). This includes a strong BRIBERY focus on employer branding to attract talent and on Our approach to human rights, anti-corruption, and the management and measurement of employee bribery, as well as the principles to which we as performance and development of skills. It is also employees and the company’s suppliers should important to ensure that competent employees are adhere, are outlined in SimCorp’s Guideline for Good rewarded and motivated to continuous learning in Business Behavior, which is found on our website. step with the development of SimCorp’s business. FOCUS ON WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT share of women in SimCorp contributes to SDG 5, ‘Gender equality’ specifically indicator SimCorp’s commitment to increasing 5.5.2 | Proportion of women in managerial the share of women in management positions. The various initiatives are described in positions so that it corresponds to the more depth in our Diversity report. GENDER BALANCE 2019 SIMCORP’S DIVERSITY REPORT 32% TOTAL 68% WORKFORCE 35% TO SUPPORT SDG GOAL 5, WE: MANAGERS 65% • have a goal that the share of women at all 15% EVP, SVP, VPS & levels of the organization corresponds to the GROUP MANAGEMENT 85% share of women in the SimCorp Group. COMMITTEE • have a goal that in 2021, the share of share17% holder-elected women on the Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS 83% (Shareholder-elected representatives) is 33% (corresponds to two persons of the underrepresented gender). SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 8 and to complain about processing of personal data. SIMCORP’S GUIDELINE FOR The Privacy Policy is easily accessible on our website. GOOD BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Further, we provide Employee Privacy Policies detailing the information gathered and used by SimCorp For employees during the course of the employee’s employment with SimCorp’s Guideline for Good Business Behavior acts SimCorp. SimCorp Dimension supports the clients’ as a framework to guide and support our employees efforts to ensure compliance with GDPR, introducing to act within SimCorp’s core business principles. The new functionality to better protect and separate Guideline is established as a means of ensuring that personal data within the application. When dealing we continuously maintain a high standard in our with suppliers, SimCorp enters into data processing conduct and it sets forward principles directing agreements whenever this is required under GDPR. employees to: For suppliers • Avoid conflicts of interest Our Guideline for Good Business Behavior also applies • Avoid insider trading to our procurement process and to suppliers. All our • Avoid bribes and facilitation payments or any kind suppliers must comply with the Guideline and we will of corruption* on a regular basis inform them about the provisions of • Maintain high standards when it comes to this Guideline together with any amendments hereto. information security and privacy** In addition, suppliers are requested to confirm adherence to the following principles: * Zero tolerance towards bribes and facilitation payments SimCorp has zero tolerance towards bribes and •  Suppliers must ensure that they, and any relevant facilitation payments. Our corporate anti-bribery rules sub-contractors, comply with the UN convention and guidelines are described in our Guideline for on child labor, article 32.1, and suppliers must Good Business Behavior. recognize children’s rights to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any **Information security and privacy work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere SimCorp maintains an Information Security Policy, with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the which defines the security-related rules and requirechild’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or ments for use of Information Technology across the social development. company. The policy also defines the rules for moni•  Suppliers must respect equal status between the toring and logging events in order to detect and sexes and between persons of different races and investigate security incidents. religion. • Suppliers  must not offer products and services, This policy is based on ISO27001 principles. It is reviewwhich have directly or indirectly been designed, ed and updated at least annually and subsequently manufactured, produced, or procured in contraapproved by the Executive Management Board and the vention of local environmental legislation or other Board of Directors. The Audit Committee is responsible legislation, or by means of corruption, bribery, or for maintaining the policy and for ensuring that we other fraudulent behavior. remain in compliance with the policy. Compliance Additionally, our ‘SimCorp Dimension as-a-Service’ From time to time, we carry out tests and surveys to (ASP) offerings are supported by ISAE3402 and SOC2 ensure that all employees and suppliers are familiar third-party audit reports, which document the control with the terms of these guidelines. framework and operating effectiveness of this service. In 2019, there has been no registered non-compliance We provide our Privacy Policy to all new contacts incident, while in 2018, one employee was terminated (clients, prospect clients, and visitors to the compadue to company credit card abuse. ny’s website) that are registered in the company’s CRM system to inform them about our protection of personal data. The Privacy Policy is compliant with EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and informs contacts about their right to insight, deletion, SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 9 2.3. ENVIRONMENT We work to run our business operations in a continually more sustainable way, thereby reducing our environmental impact, which almost entirely relates to energy consumption. ACTIONS TO REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: Air travel Virtual meetings • Reducing CO2 footprint related to air travel by better facilitation of virtual meetings at all SimCorp locations. FOCUS ON AIR-TRAVEL RELATED CO2 FOOTPRINT SEE PAGE 10 On-premise cloud • Reducing CO2 footprint and electricity consumption by moving SimCorp internal systems from on-premise to sustainable cloud computing, with carbon-neutral operations and the majority of energy consumption from increasingly sustainable sources.1 • F  urthermore, offering clients to move SimCorp operations from on-premise to cloud computing (goal: 35% of our business moved to cloud by 2025) allowing better resource utilization and also some/all of the above cloud benefits. High Performance Computing • Researching ways of reducing computing consumption with high performance computing that provides much faster processing and consumes less energy. Old PC Modern PC • Reducing electricity consumption by replacing all standard computers and servers with low-energy devices. 24/7 energy consumption • Reducing electricity and heating consumption by installing automatic day/night consumption + more light and heat adjustment at our corporate headquarters to reduce renewable energy energy use during off-peak hours. • Increasing use of renewable energy. 1 S  imCorp has started a cloud transition with the aim of decommissioning its own datacenters. With Microsoft Azure as our main cloud supplier, we support a more energy-efficient IT operation and reduce CO2 emission. Microsoft’s public cloud services have been operating 100% carbon neutral since 2012 by applying a global internal carbon fee model that charges Microsoft business units for carbon emissions from their operations. Microsoft has pledged to reduce its operational carbon emissions by 75% by 2030, against a 2013 baseline, and to purchase 70% renewable energy for their datacenters by 2023, on a path to 100% (60% in 2019). SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 10 FOCUS ON CARBON FOOTPRINT SimCorp is focused on reducing our Air travel is the business activity at SimCorp which carbon emissions and is committed to has the highest CO2 impact. To reduce our air travel, SDG 13, Climate action, specifically target we are providing better facilitation of virtual meetings 13.3 | Improved education, awareness and investing in better communications and collaboraising and human and institutional capacity on ration tools. In 2019, we have invested in 100 new climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact ‘Surface Hubs’ enabling smoother virtual meetings reduction and early warning. and collaboration. In 2019, CO2 emissions from business travel by air CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY USE AND increased to 5,873.1 tonnes (2018: 5,179.5 tonnes) WORK-RELATED TRANSPORT equal to 3.4 tonnes per FTE (2018: 3.3 tonnes per FTE). The increase is mainly related to a solid business growth and to a general increase in client-related activities. In 2019, SimCorp’s CO2 emission related to electricity and heating consumption at SimCorp HQ was measured at 212 tonnes, equal to 0.40 tonnes per full-time employee (FTE), a 6% decrease from 2018 (2018: 0.43 ELECTRICITY 5% tonnes per full-time employee (FTE)). AIR TRAVEL 90% TO SUPPORT SDG GOAL 13, WE: • have a goal to reduce our CO2 emissions related to air travel to 3.0 tonnes/FTE (equals a 10% HEATING 5% reduction from 2018). (Electricity and heating consumption globally is • will explore more effective actions to reduce CO2 calculated based on HQ consumption figures) from air travel. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 11 SUSTAINABILITY – REBUILDING SIMCORP HEADQUARTERS SimCorp’s business and the way we work change over 3-D printing time. To accommodate this, we have undertaken a Specific new furniture elements have been customcomprehensive rebuilding of our headquarters. With a ized by a 3-D printing supplier whose vision aligns focus on sustainability, we have utilized this unique with our sustainability focus. Via digitalized producopportunity to take a number of environmentally tion and virtual reality, the supplier has enabled us to focused actions. The rebuilding project has earned us create unique elements that fit our needs with the a DGNB sustainability certification award in the silver scaling and compelling pricing of mass production. category. New furniture FURNITURE Long-lasting Danish design has been chosen for new We have prioritized sustainable furniture solutions furniture investments instead of short-term fashion with a focus on recycling, reselling, donating, and 3-D products. printing. We have leveraged external expertise in recycling our used, quality office furniture, either by FOOD AND DRINK CONSUMPTION reselling, donating, or disposing of the furniture in an environmentally sustainable manner. Plastic bottles will be replaced by water stations Resale The rebuilding project will enable us to Reselling used furniture protects the replace the daily use of approximately environment from superfluous pro1,000 plastic bottles with sparkling and duction. Our external partner repairs, still water from new water stations. refurbishes, and cleans much of our existing office furniture before Waste stations reselling it. We continuously work on minimizing and sorting our waste at local waste stations to bring down waste volumes. Donation Furniture donation extends the lifetime of resources that have already been produced, while creating value for the Our canteen staff at headquarters work hard to new owners. The part of our furniture ensure that we experience a healthy and delicious that is in good shape but not suitable meal produced with sustainable means that support for reselling is donated free of charge to associations our long-term goals of: and charitable organizations through a donation network – a sharing economy partnership made up of • Increasing  share of organic food products to 1,700 organizations, which offers schools, associations, 50% of all purchases and charitable organizations surplus furniture. In the • Increasing  use of vegetables in daily food past three years, more than 30,000 pieces of furniture production by 10% have been donated via this initiative. • Reducing  use of meat in daily food production by 10% Furniture that is not re-cycled via resale or donation will be disposed of in an environmentally sustainable SimCorp’s performance on relevant environmental manner. metrics can be found in the ESG report (page 14). . SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 12 3. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SimCorp maintains an open and ongoing dialogue Our clients with its stakeholders, which is maintained by keeping In our regular client satisfaction survey, Net Promoter an open line of communication at all times, but also Score (NPS), we gauge our clients’ satisfaction with through structured means. We have defined our our solutions, services, and support. In 2019, we primary stakeholders as: managed again to reach a high score (39 points), largely driven by high levels of product quality. • our clients • our employees Our employees • our shareholders, Internally, we pride ourselves on having an open and straightforward dialogue with and among all of our In addition, SimCorp also regards employees. In 2019, we introduced a new Employee Engagement Survey, which enables us to measure • society satisfaction and motivation in a more flexible way – both from a content and a timing perspective. The as a major stakeholder. survey is carried out twice a year to ensure that we have a constantly high level of engagement and motivation. As reflected in our business model, SimCorp contributes significantly to society through job creation, tax Our shareholders payments, and contribution to GDP. SimCorp is Our communication policy ensures an open dialogue committed to fulfilling the tax requirements in all the with investors and analysts about SimCorp’s business countries where we do business, including paying and financial performance. To ensure that all our corporate income tax and payroll tax from salaries stakeholders have equal access to corporate inforpaid to our employees. SimCorp’s corporate income mation, we release news about SimCorp to Nasdaq tax is included in our ESG report further below. Copenhagen, to the media, and on SimCorp’s website. Society SimCorp is a member of various industry associations, including Dansk Industri (The Confederation of Danish Industry). SimCorp as a company does not engage in SIMCORP’S TAX POLICY any political activity, nor does it support any political party SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 13 4. WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY SimCorp has established a whistleblower system tronically submitted directly to the Chairman of to ensure transparency and to capture behavior SimCorp’s Audit Committee and an independent contradicting our fundamental values and business member of SimCorp’s Board of Directors. The whispolicies. The whistleblower system allows employtleblower system is continually tested. No reports ees, management, members of the Board of Dihave been submitted through the whistleblower rectors, and other stakeholders (such as supplier hotline in 2019 (2018: 2). representatives, clients, or SimCorp shareholders) who believe they have become aware of actions or To learn more about our whistleblower policy, omissions that could damage SimCorp – financially, please refer to our website. reputationally, or in some other way – to pass on this information to a whistleblower hotline. A third party, Got Ethics, who provides an interLEARN MORE ABOUT OUR net-based reporting tool, facilitates that reports WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY sent through the whistleblower hotline are elecSimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 14 5. ESG REPORT 2019 ESG REPORTING METRICS FOR NON-FINANCIAL Electricity  consumption data has been submitPERFORMANCE ted by the provider Ørsted/Radius and heating The report covers data on the environmental, social, consumption data by the provider Hofor. Input and governance (ESG) metrics we have identified for the CO2 emission calculation is based on the as most relevant to our business. ESG reporting consumption of electricity and heating at headenables us to track and improve our non-financial quarters and the use of leased company cars. performance, supports accountability, and offers The remaining environmental data has been protransparency for all our stakeholders. vided by SimCorp headquarter’s landlord. Environmental data • CO2 emission scope 3 SimCorp’s carbon footprint is related to electricity Our CO2 emission based on travel activity has and heating consumption (Scope 1 and 2) and travel been calculated by our travel agency Egencia (Scope 3). and is almost entirely based on air travel. • CO2 emission scope 1 and 2 See page 10 for actions planned to reduce CO2 foot Our CO2 emission related to electricity and heatprint related to travel. ing consumption has been calculated based on the Carbon Calculator formula developed in partSocial and governance data nership between the Confederation of Danish InSimCorp’s social and governance data are all based dustry and the Danish Business Authority under on company records. the Danish Ministry of Business and Growth. ESG REPORTING METRICS METRIC UNIT TARGET 2019 2018 2017 2016 Environmental data Electricity consumption (HQ) MWh 573 602 624 629 Renewable energy as share of electricity consumption (HQ) % 12 12 13 12 Heat consumption (HQ) MWh 948 811 752 941 Water consumption (HQ) ML n/a* 5.3 4.4 4.2 Waste consumption (HQ) tons 61.6 64.5 70.9 n/a CO2 emission, scope 1 and 2¹ (HQ) tons CO2 212 209 251 277 CO2 emission, scope 1 and 2 (HQ), per €m revenue tons CO2 /€m 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.9 CO2 emission, scope 1 and 2 (HQ), per €m EBIT tons CO2 /€m 1.7 2.0 2.8 4.1 CO2 emission, scope 1 and 2 (HQ), per FTE in HQ tons CO2 /FTE 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.6 CO2 emission, scope 3² (Group) tons CO2 5,873.1 5,179.5 4,697.6 4,643.6 CO2 emission, scope 3 (Group), per €m revenue tons CO2 /€m 12.9 13.5 13.7 15.7 CO2 emission, scope 3 (Group), per €m EBIT tons CO2 /€m 45.9 50.1 52.8 68.1 CO2 emission, scope 3 (Group), per FTE tons CO2 /FTE 3.05 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.6 * Water consumption data was not yet available at the time of reporting. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 15 ESG REPORTING METRICS METRIC UNIT TARGET 2019 2018 2017 2016 Social data Diversity Women as share of Group Management Committee % 336 11 10 11 11 Women as share of EVP, SVP & VPs % 336 16 13 11 12 Women as share of Directors % 336 22 35 34 31 Women as share of Managers % 33 6 35 35 36 34 Women at management levels (all of the above) % 29 31 29 28 Women as share of all employees % 32 33 33 31 Voluntary leaves number 127 104 81 85 Involuntary leaves number 76 43 48 32 Leavers (total) number 203 147 129 117 Voluntary turnover ratio3 % <7 7 7 6 7 Employee turnover ratio 4 % 11 9 9 9 Employee training hours as share of total working hours % 3.2 3.7 3.0 4.2 Corporate income tax EURm 30.9 25.6 21.2 16.6 Effective tax rate % 24.2 24.9 24.2 24.6 Number of human rights violation cases number 0 0 0 0 0 Governance data Board meetings, annually number 6 6 6 6 Board attendance rate % 100 97 100 100 100 Women as share of shareholder-elected Board members % 337 17 14 17 20 Board members: x-35 years number 0 0 0 0 Board members: 36-50 years number 1 1 1 1 Board members: 51-70 years number 4 6 5 4 Board members: 71+ years number 1 0 0 0 Audit Committee (AC) meetings number 4 4 4 4 AC meetings, attendance rate % 100 100 100 100 92 Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) meetings8 number 4 3 2 n/a NRC meetings, attendance rate % 100 88 100 100 92 Net promoter score (NPS), client engagement measure number 39 38 39 27 Staff dismissed due to non-compliance with anti-corruption policy number 0 0 0 0 0 Definitions 1. Scope 1 and 2 electricity and heat consumption. 2. Scope 3 business travel by air. 3. Voluntary leavers as share of total number of employees. 4. Total leavers as share of total number of employees. 5. Target equals a 10% reduction from 2018 level. 6. Corresponds to the share of women in SimCorp in 2018. 7. Corresponds to two persons of the underrepresented gender and the goal is set to be reached in 2021. 8. 2017 data apply to the Nomination Committee, which was formed in 2017 and following the Annual General Meeting 2018 became a Nomination & Remuneration Committee. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 16 6. UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GUIDING PRINCIPLES We have set as focus areas with specific KPIs, the two The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) goals on which our business has highest impact: reflect some of the world’s biggest challenges and opportunities that we need to help address by 2030. • Goal 5 ‘Gender equality’, specifically indicator 5.5.2 Proportion of women in managerial positions, and FOCUS AREAS We have again in 2019 conducted an assessment, • Goal 13 ‘Climate action’, specifically target 13.3 which describes how SimCorp contributes to a numImproved education, awareness raising and human ber of the 169 SDG targets and how we will work to and institutional capacity on climate change mitigaincrease our impact on sustainable development. tion, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Target 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. SimCorp is part of the Coding Class project, an initiative with the goal of making IT part of the curriculum in Danish schools, starting out by introducing six graders to working with IT and technology. SimCorp supports the Coding Class project as one of the main sponsors, who also obtain a spot in the Steering Committee. These sponsors are called “Coding Class Angels”. SimCorp believes this initiative will help increase the number of young people with relevant skills for future jobs in a global world where IT will play an increasing role. Target 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations. SimCorp has run a mentoring program in 2019 with the aim to ensure that men and women have equal opportunities for reaching a managerial position in SimCorp. Employees selected for the program are supported in their current roles and managerial aspirations by being assigned a mentor from SimCorp’s management group. Furthermore, SimCorp runs courses targeted at equally supporting all employees with manager potential. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 17 Target 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development. SimCorp’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy states that SimCorp “… strives to create a diverse and inclusive workplace that welcomes people of all views and backgrounds, and offers equal opportunities regardless of race, gender, religion, national origin, physical ability, marital status, or sexual orientation. We believe that we are stronger when we reflect the diversity in the world around us, making us more dynamic, more innovative and more successful in the marketplace.” Target 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life, specifically indicator 5.5.2 | Proportion of women in managerial positions. It is a focus area for SimCorp to develop female talent within the business and to increase the proportion of women at all management levels corresponds to the share of women in the SimCorp Group. In 2019, the female representation at management level in SimCorp has decreased to 29.3% compared to 31.0% in 2018, while the total proportion of women in the SimCorp Group is 32.3% (2018: 33.0%). The decrease in female representation at management level is to a high degree related to the acquisition of AIM software. Regarding gender diversity on the Board of Directors, the company has set as a target to have two directors of the underrepresented gender elected by the annual general meeting (AGM) in 2021, which currently has six AGM-elected members of which only one is a woman. For more information on our 'Focus on women in management', see page 7. Target 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status. SimCorp strives to maintain a workplace that is diverse and inclusive, offering equal career opportunities regardless of race, gender, religion, national origin, physical ability, marital status, or sexual orientation. The approach applies to job applicants as well as all current employees. As part of its activities, SimCorp had in 2019 a special pool of 15 heads allocated to offering jobs to disabled people, flexible jobs (for people with a reduced ability to work), or internships. For more information on the results of this program, please refer to our Diversity Report 2019, which can be found on our website www.simcorp.com/en/investor/corporate-governance. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 18 Target 10.5 Improve the regulation and monitoring of global financial markets and institutions and strengthen the implementation of such regulations. SimCorp’s product offering SimCorp Dimension® and its regulatory compliance services enable global investment managers to meet increasing demands for transparency and reporting. With the “Compliance Manager” module in SimCorp Dimension, we also support clients that are managing funds on behalf of people who are increasingly demanding an ESG responsible investment profile. We already support exclusion of undesirable ESG investment characteristics and we want to expand our support to also enable selection of desirable ESG investment characteristics. Our integrated front-to-back platform provides full transparency and gives us a unique ability to build out our solutions in this space, hereby creating positive ESG impact for our clients and their stakeholders. enables asset and fund managers, who invest on behalf of funds and clients, to exclude undesirable ESG investment characteristics. We will prioritize to utilize the opportunity to ur integrated front-to-back platform will allow us to build out our solutions in this space to include desirable ESG characteristics, hereby creating positive ESG impact for our clients and their stakeholders. Target 13.3 Improved education, awareness raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Taking climate and environmental responsibility is part of acting responsibly as a business. Although SimCorp is not an energy-intensive company, we acknowledge that we need to make an active contribution to minimizing carbon emissions. Our CO2 impact is mainly associated with meeting-related air travel and heating and electricity use at our offices. As air travel is the business activity at SimCorp which has the highest CO2 impact, we have made it a focus area to reduce its impact. For for information on our goals and activities, see pages 9-10. SimCorp | Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and ESG Report 2019 19 7. REPORT PROFILE This is the Group’s eleventh Corporate Social Responare updated annually. Questions relating to the contents sibility statement, also including an ESG report on of the report can be directed to info@simcorp.com. non-financial metrics and covering the period January The company’s Board of Directors and auditors have 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019. The statement and report assessed and approved this statement and report. ABOUT SIMCORP SimCorp provides integrated, best-in-class investment management solutions to the world’s leading asset managers, fund managers, asset servicers, pension and insurance funds, wealth managers, central banks, sovereign wealth funds, and treasury. Regardless of how you deploy it, SimCorp’s core solution, SimCorp Dimension®, and its life-cycle services support the entire investment value chain and range of instruments, all based on a market-leading IBOR. SimCorp invests around 20% of its annual revenue in R&D, helping clients develop their business and stay ahead of ever-changing industry demands. Listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen, SimCorp is a global company, regionally covering all of Europe, North America, and Asia Pacific. For more information, please visit www.simcorp.com ONE SYSTEM FOR A COMPLEX WORLD LEGAL NOTICE The contents of this publication are for general document may be reproduced, stored in, or information and illustrative purposes only and are introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted used at the reader’s own risk. SimCorp uses all in any form, by any means (electronic, mechanical, reasonable endeavors to ensure the accuracy of the photocopying, recording, or otherwise), or for any information. However, SimCorp does not guarantee purpose without the express written permission of or warrant the accuracy, completeness, factual SimCorp A/S. SimCorp, the SimCorp logo, SimCorp correctness, or reliability of any information in this Dimension, and SimCorp Services are either publication and does not accept liability for errors, registered trade-marks or trademarks of SimCorp omissions, inaccuracies, or typographical errors. A/S in Denmark and/or other countries. The views and opinions expressed in this publication Refer to www.simcorp. com/trademarks for a full are not necessarily those of SimCorp. list of SimCorp A/S trademarks. Other trademarks © 2020 SimCorp A/S. All rights reserved. Without referred to in this document are the property of limiting rights under copyright, no part of this their respective owners.
