Page 2 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS and MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Human Rights: Principles: 1 & 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Description 0f Actions Measurement of Supported policy/strategy Implementation Outcomes BRAC Bank Limited (BBL) is fully committed  BRAC Bank actively  Under the CSR activity is a to upholding the principles of human rights continues to seek responsible bank to promote through its business activities and services. opportunities to develop the human rights and welfare of the Through rigorous due diligence, we pledge profile of female team communities, BBL previously to avoid infringing the rights of others, and members to a new height. A formed a partnership with Ain O to take steps to avoid negative human rights forum “TARA” has been Salish Kendra (ASK), a national impact resulting from our work. This operational since 2016 as a legal aid and human rights includes taking steps towards respect, forum for women within the organization to promote issues protection and fulfilment for such rights as organization. Also, BBL offers a related to human rights especially effective elimination of child labor and separate banking product for the children. modern slavery; elimination of all forms of named “Tara” as a racial and gender discrimination; and the comprehensive financial  Partnering with BhaatBank to realization of a workplace which positively inclusion services for the Provide a Free Meal Program to empowers its employees and people of the woman which has separate the Underprivileged: BRAC Bank broader world without discrimination on the service desk and relationship has partnered with BhaatBank to basis of gender, physical ability. managers in each branch of provide free meals to those most the bank. in need. Every Friday, they 1. Bank’s “Speak–up Policy” has given distribute 400 meals with high access to all employees to flag any  Continuous sourcing of CSR nutritional value to discrepancies or violation of rights. activities which has the social underprivileged people, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 3 2. BRAC bank has a well-articulated “Code impact while promoting human especially children from two of Conduct”, which is an all-embracing rights across the country. locations in the capital Dhaka. guideline for the employees that enables them to understand the fundamental  BRAC bank conducts  BBL provides Scholarships for various awareness sessions financially challenged students conducts of the workplace and to mostly from rural Bangladesh differentiate between what is for its employees around the with a view to reduced equality as “ACCEPTABLE” and What is “NOT year, which help employees basic human right. ACCEPTABLE” in the workplace. Moreover, to become adept in their that Code of Conduct is signed by the personal life by stressing on  During the reporting time, BBL employees to ensure that they are abiding donated 50,000 pieces of soft skills too. Moreover, the blankets to the Prime Minister’s by the bank’s norms and standards. bank is also focusing on Relief and Welfare Fund for educating its employees on helping the underprivileged 3. BBL has its own “Sexual Harassment across the country on the advent Eradication Policy” for the betterment of the how to conduct themselves of the winter. workplace on sensitive issues such as gender diversity and sexual  33 employee have been trained 4. Following issues are integral part of our to learn more about women harassment issues in the HR Policy which also endorses other human empowerment index and women rights like social security, treatment facility, workplace. entrepreneurship. recognition for outstanding contributions etc :  BBL has been awarded the Cost of Living Adjustment Financial Alliance for Women Hospitalization Benefits Plan award in 2019 which is third in a Hospitalization Benefits Claim row. Reward & Recognition  No such incident of human right 5. CSR Policy: The establishment of BRAC violation in the organization Bank’s CSR strategy is a crucial component within the reporting timeline. that reflects the bank’s aspiration for the sustainable development of the society and  The employees of BRAC Bank creating meaningful value for stakeholders. organizes its annual mini This means having aspiration to integrate marathon BRAC Bank DOUR social, environmental, ethical, human rights 2019 – The Marathon for into its core strategy, all in close Humanity . Beginning in its collaboration with different stakeholders. journey in 2011, DOUR is the first marathon initiative by a bank in 6. E&S Safeguard Policy: Board approved the country and is unique in the E&S safeguard policy of the bank as well as way it serves the society through the credit policy includes an exclusion. its fundraising philosophy. According to that exclusion list, financing in Racist and anti-democratic media activities, Production or trade in any product or activity deemed illegal under host country laws or regulations or international conventions and agreements etc are strongly prohibited. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 4 LaborPrinciples: 3-6 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor the effective abolition of child labor; and The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Description 0f Actions Measurement of Supported Implementation Outcomes policy/strategy As part of its ethical business  As part of E&S due diligence while  BBL is a values based bank with practices, BBL is continuously financing, loan files above a given People-Planet –prosperity bottomencouraging employees and working threshold set by the central bank line. towards creating a healthy, ethical, must go through rigorous scrutiny supportive and collaborative work One of the integral parts of this due  Credit Policy 2019: In the environment for our employees to diligence is to check client’s exclusion list of credit policy, realize their full potential both compliance with labor and working financial activities related to forced professionally and personally as well condition. That’s how at the client labor or child labor are strongly as discouraging labor malpractice level we make sure that our client is prohibited. In both cases, BBL including child labor and force labor well compliant with labor and following local laws/regulations as while financing any. In this regard, working condition as prescribed by well as the defined issues as the policies and strategies are in local laws/regulations. addressed by the ILO Fundamental place to support labor related to Human Rights Conventions UNGC principles.  Sustainable Finance Unit of the (Minimum Age Convention C138, bank monitors and visits the client Art. 2). 1. Credit Policy 2019: In the premises as part of environmental & exclusion list of credit policy, social due diligence to oversee  The bank invests heavily on financial activities related to forced clients stand against force labor or skill development of its human labor or child labor are strongly child labor. resource, as it believes that prohibited. In both cases, BBL development of the employees’ following local laws/regulations as  Credit inspection team, a professional and interpersonal well as the defined issues as separate and independent team endeavors is crucial to addressed by the ILO Fundamental undertake random visits to the client Human Rights Conventions to ensure clients adherence with achieving its long-term strategy. (Minimum Age Convention C138, Art. occupational health and safety In 2019, a total of 6,273 staff 2). standards. received different formal training programs 2. HR Policy: Conducting in-house  BBL does not ignore, nor will it operation in harmony with proper tolerate harassment or  100% BBL staff are covered environment for the employee and discrimination on account of race, by health insurance, and propagating a culture in which our age, sex, religion, national origin, or Approximately 15% of the total employees are deeply aware of the disability of any employee by another staff have benefitted from importance of effective recognition person in the workplace. An hospitalization benefit in 2019. of the right, prohibition of forced employee who experiences labor etc are major part of our HR harassment or discrimination can policy that includes following COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 5 fundamental sections like no forced always escalate the matter to  In 2019, 67 female or child labor, leave management, appropriate authority for action. employees embarked on bonus, staff loan for house or maternal leaves, whereas 241 transport, end of service bonus etc.  Training sessions on “Diversity, male employees have availed Gender and Sexual Harassment” paternity leaves. 3. Environmental & Social Safeguard has been adopted as mandatory Policy 2019: This policy also session for all employees. endorses UNGC principle for labor  BBL provides Transportation and accordingly ensures any  For internal monitoring of the facility to the female employees. grievance mechanism for both employee satisfaction against internal and external stakeholders. working condition, human resource  There is a Day Care facility at departments collect employee the bank’s head office feedback on the understanding 4. Fire Safety Management Plan: the HR policy and views on its of BBL believes that ensuring the  To support the financial needs occupational health and workplace effectiveness through quick survey of its employees, the bank safety of its employees, visitors, which gives valued feedback on the provides concessional loans to service users and all relevant matter. its staff persons is the key essential to its motto: people, planet and prosperity.  The rights, obligations, and  In 2019, the Performance Hence, the Fire Safety Management fringe benefits of the employees Management System (PMS) of Plan for its largest resident, its head are well articulated in the BRAC Bank was revamped to office has been created to ensure a appointment letter, wherein the bring symmetry and more safe and healthy working entire terms and conditions for transparency in the appraisal environment for all. employment are also specified. system. 5. Our procurement policy provides  BBL’s recruitment process is  BBL has initiated a women’s the utmost transparency while entirely based on an forum, TARA, for capacityselecting or engaging with third unprejudiced approach where building and career parties/suppliers for business competencies, merits, and other development of its female staff. purposes. cognitive characteristics are justly assessed.  Environmental & Social Safeguard Policy 2019: This policy  At BBL, all employees are also endorses UNGC principle for entitled to avail leave for any labor and accordingly ensures any emergency and casualties as per grievance mechanism for both the bank’s policy. With a provision internal and external stakeholders. of Leave Fair Assistance (LFA), as per the guideline of Bangladesh  Fire Safety Management Plan: Bank. BBL believes that ensuring the occupational health and workplace  All employees of the bank are safety of its employees, visitors, covered under medical insurance service users and all relevant scheme. persons is the key essential to its motto: people, planet and prosperity.  Dedicated clinical officers is there to provide instant medical support. The bank also organizes COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 6 periodical fire drill to educate its employees.  BBL has instituted counseling service for the employees where professional psychiatrist provides counselling to address mental trauma. Environment: Principles: 7-9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environ-mental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Description 0f Actions Measurement of Supported policy/strategy Implementation Outcomes 1. Environmental & Social Safeguard  Online E&S due diligence  ESMS status for the year Policy 2019: This policy is a platform for centralized E&S 2019: comprehensive E&S umbrella of the bank risk assessment so that Number of finance rated: meeting regulatory requirements, business relationship offers Low: 1023 stakeholder’s compliances and voluntary from remote branches of the Medium: 51 commitments of the bank in country can access the environmental and social best practices. platform and raise any issues Amount of rated finance Aiming to highlight the core motto of related to this. disbursed: Bank’s vision towards People Planet & Prosperity pillars, this guideline is an  Sustainable Finance Unit is Low: BDT 66942.42M integral part of existing credit risk dedicatedly responsible for Medium: BDT 12076.89 M assessment framework as well as Bank’s E&S Risk Management and High: BDT 824.86M long term vision to become a carbon BRAC Bank have designated neutral number one sustainable bank of Staff as “E&S Officer” for such  Sustainable Finance Unit of the country. under SFU. the bank arranged 4 capacity This guideline will facilitate prudent building sessions in the year management framework of E&S risk  BBL’s Sustainable Finance 2019 where nearly 120 people mitigation from Bank’s financial Unit regularly arrange E&S attended the sessions to learn footprints. This guideline also promotes session/awareness programs about the E&S issues and green office initiatives within the banks as for concerned business unit, global compliances like GABV part of its ethical business practices and credit representatives and also 3C and UNGC principles. Also, emphasis adopting global environmental for client base to enhance their 50 other employee attended & social standards as one of the core capacity against E&S risks and capacity building session titled agenda to take a stand against ever mitigation. “Opportunities for Green evolving climate vulnerability. These Banking and Accessing Climate policy-guidelines are established by the  Market visit with business Finance”. Board of Directors of BBL and Sustainable and risk management unit to Finance Unit under Risk Management promote sustainable and  Most of the external Division This is designed to meet the green financing in line with communications within the organizational requirements regarding principle 9 of UNGC. bank are based on digital COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 7 environmental & social aspects that exist format which substantially within the bank as well as its valued  Inclusion of E&S covenants reduces paper consumption, stakeholders. UNGC principles are also a in loan agreement and credit thereby reducing deforestation. part of this policy with clear directives of inspection report to give more the responsible units and their activities. importance in the  We have some branches environmental and social located in rural and urban 2. The bank’s Risk Management precautionary approach. areas respectively have rooftop Committee (RMC) upholds the solar system as part of strategy supreme authority to govern its  Every employee of the bank in promoting environment Environmental & Social concerns, has to sign this undertaking to friendly technologies in daily while the Sustainable Finance use less paper, efficient use of operations. water and electricity as part of Committee (SFC) is responsible for its green office guideline.  Only bank to have a dedicated setting up organizational strategies green product other than and disseminating the same to the  BBL signed an agreement Central Bank’s scheme. Sustainable Finance Unit (SFU). The with International Centre for SFU of the bank is accountable for Climate Change and  BBL partnered with IFC’s implanting the action plans set-forth Development, one of the Partnership for Cleaner Textile by the governing bodies. leading research and capacity Program in Bangladesh who building organizations working played a leading role in driving on climate change and the long-term competitiveness 3. BRAC bank is the only memberdevelopment in Bangladesh to and environmental bank of Global Alliance for Banking on develop its own capacity and sustainability of the textile wet Values (GABV) in Bangladesh. understanding against climate processing sector, by adaptation and mitigation. addressing high water, energy, 4. Credit Policy 2019: Credit policy of the and chemical use through the bank refers to the regulatory aspect of the  BRAC Bank’s in-house adoption of best practices in bank for mitigating environmental and chores are driven by the the textile sector of social risks of the organization. The policy principles of its green office Bangladesh. These best includes exclusion list for responsible guide, which encompasses practices lead to declining financing, E&S due diligence process as resource consumption, soaring part of a precautionary approach to a. 1. Green Code of Conduct profits, and an enhanced image environmental challenges and escalation b. for BBL staff in the global apparel market. matrix for high/medium risk clients. c. 2. Green Office Premises 3. Green Technologies  Mobile banking & increased 5. CSR Policy: CSR policy of the bank 4. Staff Training use of recycled ensures 10% of total annual CSR fund to paper/biodegradable materials be diverted as climate risk fund as per the  To expedite resource in day to day operations. central bank regulation. efficiency, we use LED bulbs in  Increased usage of LED lights our service outlets, and we 6. Creation of Climate Risk Fund: Every have instilled motion-sensitive as energy efficiency initiatives to replace old T9 tube lights. year, the bank puts aside a portion of lights in places where there are its CSR budget for climate risk occasional movements.  BBL has partnered with purposes. Bangladesh Economic Zones  We also discourage undue Authority (BEZA) for tree 7. GABV 3C Commitment: March 4, usage of paper in all possible plantation at Mirsarai Economic 2019, Zeist, The Netherlands, following ways, and when a printout is Zone in Chattogram. Under this the Global Alliance for Banking on Values required, both-side printing is financial support, massive (GABV) Summit in Vancouver, financial encouraged. Moreover, we forestation in the zone’s leaders of GABV members including BRAC recycle used and shredded COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 8 Bank have committed to a concerted, papers through a proper proximity to the Bay of Bengal, global effort among banking institutions channel. Also, we have a covering 500 acres of land, will to track and monitor the carbon impact of proper disposal mechanism for help protect the coastal belt as their portfolio of loans and investments the materials used in the an climate adoption project as within a period of three years. The Climate bank’s daily operation, well as add to its beautification. Change Commitment, otherwise known especially for the disposal of IT as the ‘3C initiative’, reflects the dire need wastages.  BRAC bank has endorsed to correct the current environmental UNEP FI movement on EE trajectory and aligns with the Paris  Before proceeding for financing, Agreement goals to keep global lending process, every temperature increases this century well potential loan proposal  It is the Executing Entity below 2 degrees Celsius. undergoes a screening process against an exclusion (EE) of the Green Climate 8. We have put in place extensive use of list. Fund (GCF) Green marketing and extended the use of technology to streamline  The bank has a rigorous  Patterned with UNGC in processes Environmental & Social Due piloting the first-ever SME Diligence (ESDD) process, toolkit for the sustainable which is sternly followed in the supply chains of the SMEs in process of extending credit Bangladesh. facilities to its clientele.  In an effort to minimize the death tolls caused from the brutal strikes of lightning in Rajbari district area, BRAC Bank has come up with a unique environmental initiative – a palm and other tree plantation drive engaging the younger generation to fend off the harm of thunderstorms. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 9 Anti-Corruption Principle: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Description 0f Actions Measurement of Supported Implementation Outcomes policy/strategy BRAC Bank is fully committed to anti As part of our anti-money  The following reports are corruption principle of UNGC: laundering policy, every year, BRAC generated at prescribed Businesses should work against Bank’s CEO clearly outlines to frequencies to Bank’s corruption in all its forms, including employees the way forward for the compliance with anti-corruption: extortion and bribery. BRAC Bank year. The CEO also reports on the Excessive Cash Movement recognizes its obligation to join initiatives taken the previous year Report: On a daily basis, every governments, international pertaining to combating these branch generates a large value organizations and other financial particular areas of financial crime cash transaction report and services organizations to close prevention. reviews transaction patterns. financial channels used by money launderers and terrorist  The bank has also nominated a Exception Report or TP Breach organizations. The bank views Chief Anti-Money Laundering Report: On a monthly basis, practicing anti-corruption as an Compliance Officer (CAMLCO) and every branch generates an integral part of its management Deputy CAMLCO. Together, they exception report of customers strategy, rather than a mere ensure that the bank is compliant whose account transaction legislative requirement. The bank is with all AML guidelines. volume exceeds the transaction fully committed to preventing limits (more than 20%) corruption, extortion and bribery.  In addition, the Branch Antimentioned in the TP, for further Money Laundering Compliance review. 1. Anti-Money Laundering Policy: Officer (BAMLCO) is accountable BRAC Bank Limited has developed a for AML compliance at each CTR (Cash Transaction Report): comprehensive policy on “Money branch. The BAMLCO is Cash transactions (deposits or Laundering Prevention”, “Combating responsible for reviewing and withdrawals) that breach certain Financing of Terrorism”, and “Know verifying account transactions, as limits set by central bank are Your Customer” approved by the well as making suspicious reported to the central bank. Board of Directors. The purpose of the transaction reports (STRs) and Anti-Money Laundering Policy is to ensuring the fostering of an AML A search engine named “deprovide a guideline within which to and CFT-compliant culture. dupe” is used to check for comply with the laws and regulations duplicate accounts or existing regarding money laundering both at  Before entering into a relationships. country and international levels and relationship with an individual or thereby to safeguard the bank from entity, detailed checks on whether  Establishment of a separate potential compliance, financial and the individual or entity belongs to “Contact Point Verification” reputational risks. any organization banned by the law team which physically validates of the land or special reference list the authenticity of a customer’s 2. BRAC bank has a full-fledged provided by a UN sanctions list are address and profession to avoid department to address Anti-money made. any probable corruption related Laundering (AML) agenda with activities. adequate staff having a adequate  Inconsistencies are investigated experience in the relevant field against the stated purpose of the  For every employee, attending anti-money laundering training COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 10 accounts, i.e. the customer’s and awareness session is a 3. HR Policy: Banks HR policy clearly declared transaction profile (TP). must for the bank and HR states zero tolerance approach department ensures proper against employee if he/she is  KYC procedures have been set monitoring of this process. involved with any sort of corruption, up with address verification. As Besides, 36 officials of the bank bribery etc resulting immediate part of monitoring account undertook special training termination and even handover to the transaction, the estimated session on anti-corruption and law enforcing authority if needed. transaction profile and high value money laundering in 2019. transactions are being reviewed 4. Stringent Know-Your-Customer electronically.  No corruption related issues or Process and Contact Point incidents related to employee Verification is in place to combat any  Training has been taken as a were experienced during the adversity. continuous process for reporting time. creating/developing awareness among the employees.  The Board Audit Committee (BAC) convened 8 times  Transparency in during 2019, whereas the procurement: BRAC bank has Risk Management Committee an unequivocal procurement of the directorates convened policy which ensures that all its as per central bank directives suppliers are selected through a during the same period. All transparent process while critical issues were escalated ensuring the quality service to them for resolution. from the supplier along with a competitive price. While  In 2019, BRAC bank selecting suppliers for business arranged Branch Managers need, the bank provides equal (BM) convention with the aim opportunity to them based on of spreading awareness their quality of service and among its employees and experience in relevant field. stakeholders regarding the prevention of money  Monitoring & Reporting: laundering and combating There is a central transaction terrorism financing. monitoring team which has been formed according to the  The bank ensured regular requirement of Bangladesh transaction monitoring to find Financial Intelligence Unit out any unusual transaction (BFIU) directive. Additionally, on the basis of available transaction monitoring is being monitoring tools. In the event also carried out at Branch Level of any aberrant transaction, under guidance of Branch Antithat was escalated money Laundering Compliance meticulously to the Officer (BAMLCO). authorities concerned.  Intensive Training Programs  in 2019, all branches, 187, are being conducted throughout of the bank have been the year both at Head Office and audited by bank’s internal COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019 Page 11 Regional Offices, covering both audit team, where they have front office and back office conducted a comprehensive personnel. due-diligence check on the  The bank conducts internal activities of the bank’s audit to ensure compliance and branches, which enabled the identify any misconduct, bank to identify External audits are being irregularities/nonconducted every year to ensure compliances in its service the transparency. outlets and to chalk out appropriate action plans for  While on-boarding new the same. customers, a rigorous KYC is done. There is a separate unit  Branches of the bank had viz. Central verification Unit conducted periodical self(CVU) to cross check and assessment exercises as part validate customer information. of regular due diligence to Moreover, we relentlessly prevent money laundering monitor the transaction profile and other forms of of our customer and if any wrongdoings. transaction deems suspicious, it is reported to the appropriate  Proper record retention, authority immediately. review and monitoring of highrisk accounts are strongly  The bank has an anti-fraud recommended for branches committee that oversees its employees in the event of fraudforgeries. Moreover, the bank’s operational risk management  All employees are advised to team conduct an awareness assume responsibility to program in its service outlets, combat ML, TF and PF in all its where they try to keep the forms and manifestation employees abreast of the salient features of risk management COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) --2019
