SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENT A word from our CEO 3 A global outlook 4 Our sustainability programme 5 Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment 6 Reducing our energy consumption 8 Optimising packaging and reducing waste 9 Addressing human and labour rights risks 10 A diverse workplace 11 Embedding good ethical behaviour into our business 12 Driving continuous improvements through SEDEX 13 Collaborating to improve sustainability in the food chain 13 Our UN Global Compact progress report 15 2 CEO Statement It has been projected that by 2050, the global population will reach close to 10 billion people and the middle class will double in size. The world will be facing challenges such as food safety, limited natural resources and climate change. At FOSS, we believe our technology and innovative solutions play an instrumental role in addressing these challenges. We are on a mission for the sustainable use of our planet’s agricultural resources and this journey started back in 1956 when our company was established. From the beginning, we have been in the business of developing solutions to safeguard the quality of food products and improve production efficiency. The biggest contribution we can make is to continue developing solutions and analytics that help the largest companies become more sustainable operations. We do this through innovation and collaboration. In our workplace we value diversity and working in teams to solve challenging problems. Externally, we have developed strategic relationships with leading universities collaborating in the areas of research, development and education. We also engage with various players in the food and agriculture sectors, such as customers, peers and competitors. We believe innovation thrives in collaborative environments. In addition to developing solutions for our customers to become more sustainable operations, we believe in acting responsibly and ethically wherever we operate in the world. I would like to state our continued support of the UN Global Compact. As an active member, we are committed to upholding the ten universal principles in the areas of human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Our Communication on Progress against the principles can be found at the end of this report. Kim Vejlby Hansen, CEO 3 A global outlook FOSS was established in 1956 by Nils Foss and and help determine whether cows get the right feed, remains a family-owned company. We have grown are healthy, and produce good and nutritious milk. steadily over the years and are now the leading global We invest 10% of revenue in innovation every year provider of analytics for the food and agricultural and develop advanced digital solutions for cost and sectors. Approximately 85% of milk and 80% of value optimisation. grain traded on the world market today is analysed using FOSS solutions, and our customers include the top 100 food companies. We work in a number of food and agricultural industries: Dairy, Feed and Forage, Grain, Flour Milling & Oilseed Processing, Facts and Figures Laboratories, Meat, Raw Milk Testing and Wine. • FOSS Group turnover of 2,155 billion DKK in 2019 FOSS provides a range of analytical solutions from • AAA-rated by D&B laboratory to at-line and in-line solutions. Across a • More than 100 patents and 20 world-first number of industries, FOSS helps optimise the use products of food and agricultural resources around the world. • Approximately 1,500 employees worldwide We do so by enabling customers run intelligent data• 99% of FOSS’ business is generated outside of Denmark driven production, based on fast, easy-to-use and dedicated analytics. • Manufacturing in Denmark, Hungary and China and R&D facilities in Denmark, Hungary and Russia Our analytics measure the level of protein in dairy • FOSS sales and service companies in 32 products, scan meat to determine fat contents and countries and more than 75 distributors check for unwanted objects such as bone splinters; measure sugar levels in grapes, the moisture in grain, 4 Our sustainability programme Our sustainability journey started with the founding of • Health and Safety of employees our company in 1956. Although much has changed • Human and Labour Rights particularly in the since then, sustainability remains just as important to supply chain FOSS. Our mission is to ensure the sustainable use of • The Environment with a focus on our energy the world’s valuable food resources. In addition to usage and enabling customers to minimise their environmental impacts creating solutions that provide sustainable benefits to • Business Ethics in the Sales and Service areas our customers, we believe in conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner. In 2012, we joined Each year we report on our Communication on the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate Progress (COP) against the UN Global Compact’s sustainability initiative. As an active member we are ten principles in our sustainability report. Our committed to aligning our efforts with ten universal sustainability reports, sustainability policies, Supplier sustainability principles and strategies in the areas Code of Conduct, and our annual Modern Slavery of human rights, labour standards, the environment statement can be found at: and anti-corruption. In addition, we are committed to advancing societal goals and embedding sustainability https://www.fossanalytics.com/en/about-foss/ into our operations. sustainability Using the UN Global Compact as a starting point, we In addition to the UN Global Compact, we support the have identified the following areas most material to Sustainable Development Goals. The most pertinent our business and key stakeholders: for our business are: 5 SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns This report fulfils our Danish legislative and UN Global Compact reporting requirements, and covers the 2019 financial year. Maintaining a Safe and Healthy Working Environment We have a responsibility to ensure that staff work under safe conditions in our production, labs and offices. As our production mainly involves monitoring, testing and assembling, the incidents that do occur are mainly of a minor nature. The biggest health and safety risks we face are slips, trips, falls and improper lifting. Nevertheless, we do take health & safety seriously in our business. We have dedicated Health and Safety organisations at our three production facilities in Denmark, China and Hungary. They are responsible for identifying and assessing hazards or risks in the workplace, as well as developing action plans to address potential issues. As a member of the SEDEX1 initiative, we conduct annual internal audits of the health and safety area, and 3rd party audits are conducted every 2-3 years. 1 https://www.sedexglobal.com/ 6 Both the internal and external audits include a visual • Eating healthy inspection of our buildings, labs and production, • Stop smoking employee interviews, and a documentation review. • Exercise Findings and learnings from these audits are used • Avoiding obesity in our drive for continuous improvements. In 2019, six minor injuries took place at our facilities. Four of We ran a series of free courses and presentations those incidents resulted in less than one day’s absence throughout the year promoting a healthy lifestyle, and from work. One injury resulted in four day’s absence; employees were encouraged to propose ideas and the last resulted in nine day’s absence and required a suggestions. Our intention is to get as many employees hospital visit. involved in the programme as possible, from novices to people in advanced levels of fitness. The series Improving fitness and health of courses and presentations include: Running for In 2019, we launched a programme to advocate beginners, Myths about dieting, Quitting smoking, an active and healthy lifestyle for staff in Denmark. Lasting weight loss, Fitness training and Heavy lifting. A healthy lifestyle has a number of advantages and Courses and presentations are conducted by trained provides short and long-term benefits. It improves professionals and vary in duration from a few hours to mental well-being, and reduces the risks of diabetes, up to six weeks. The Lasting Weight course includes cancer and cardiovascular disease. individual sessions with a dietician, an individual diet plan and group sessions. When we moved into the The focus of the programme is: new part of our Innovation Centre in 2019, employees 7 gained access to much better fitness facilities. We also energy in colder months for heating offices and made a corporate agreement with a national fitness buildings, and for cooling in the summer months. centre enabling staff to join at a favourable price. This was just the first wave of initiatives and more will take Our facilities in Denmark account for the majority of place in the future. our company’s energy usage. As we have expanded our Innovation Centre with a new building, we have ensured that both the old and the new buildings are Reducing our energy as energy efficient as possible. consumption For example, we have installed 580 m² of solar cells At FOSS, our energy consumption is different on the roofs of our Innovation Centre, which generate from many companies due to the nature of our 105 KWh of electricity, and have installed outdoor business. Most of our production entails assembling, sun shading devices on our building facades to keep monitoring and testing instruments, rather than our buildings cool in the summer. heavy manufacturing. However, like many companies, there is a risk that climate change and extreme Every three years energy consultants conduct an weather conditions could result in an increase in audit of our facilities to meet the EU Energy directive energy consumption for cooling and thus higher CO2 requirements. The audit is an assessment of our emissions and higher energy costs for our business. energy usage and includes buildings, processes, and A large percentage of our energy consumption is transportation. The audit results assist us in identifying heating and electricity and climate conditions have opportunities to save energy and reduce costs. The an effect on the energy we consume. We use more last energy audit was conducted in the last quarter of 8 2019, and we are currently in the process of reviewing further reduce electricity consumption and energy the recommendations. costs. In 2019, Suzhou’s electricity consumption fell roughly 14% compared to 2018. Consumption Our production in Suzhou only use electricity as an peaked in the colder and warmer months of the year energy source and account for less than 20% of our January, August, and December. total electricity consumption. Their focus has been on reducing energy usage in lighting. In 2015, Suzhou In Denmark, gas usage increased in 2019 and peaked began transitioning from fluorescent to LED lighting. in the colder months of January, February and March. Converting to LEDs not only provides energy savings The expansion from 14,000 sqm. to 24,000 sqm is also of between 56-68 %, but also reduces the demand a factor that has increased energy usage. A number on power stations, resulting in less greenhouse of employees have been relocated to our Innovation emissions. In 2019, Suzhou achieved 100% LED Centre, and although the building is energy efficient, conversion and cost savings of 40,000 RMB. In 2020, this has also resulted in an increase in overall energy they will be upgrading some of the older LEDs to consumption. Total energy consumption at our production sites 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Electricity (kwh) 3611321 3921931 2843363 3157277 3112946 3181097 3346622 Ratio3 11% -31% -28% -32% -31% -24% Heating (kwh) 2680640 1933220 1108000 1401160 1403170 1379440 1313150 Ratio -26% -64% -57% -59% -60% -60% Oil (litres) 19984 35487 26238 20479 25272 19098 21965 Ratio 81% 15% -15% -1% -25% -10% Gas (Nm3) 65556 34249 40946 50452 45897 56485 80890 Ratio -47% -45% -36% -45% -33% +.01% Turnover 1,756 1,722 2,010 2,122 2,222 2,243 2,155 Optimising packaging and reducing waste Our policy is to reduce risks to the environment by responsible manner. In 2018, the FOSS Packaging recycling and reusing materials/packaging whenever Design Manual was developed with the purpose of possible, and managing waste in a safe and standardising packaging design and process for FOSS 2 Energy costs in Hungary, where we employ 65 people, are not available as they are included in the rental agreement of the building. Data will be provided in the future when we relocate to new premises. 3 The ratio calculation is based on energy source/turnover with a 2013 baseline. A positive figure indicates an increase compared to 2013, a negative figure indicates a decrease. Turnover is in million kroner. 9 instruments. The manual follows best practice making it easier to develop the right packaging option once key dimensions of instruments have been determined. All packaging for new FOSS instruments must follow this manual in order to streamline solutions and ease sourcing and production flow. It also results in an increase in the reuse of existing packaging boxes. Next year a new plywood packaging solution will be implemented for the MeatMaster II, which is repackaged 33% of the time to meet airfreight requirements. The new plywood solution would mean the same packaging could be used all the way from the manufacturer of the instrument cabinet to the end customer. This would result in annual cost savings of 250,000 DKK and reduce the use of 2 tonnes of corrugated cardboard. We are also investigating the use of the same packaging for our NIRS DS2500 Dairy and Liquid instrument when it is shipped from our production facilities in Suzhou to the end customers, rather than having it repackaged in Denmark. This change will potentially result in a reduction of 23.9 m3 of foam suppliers must sign off on our Code of Conduct or material per year, which presently goes to landfill. The produce documentation, which demonstrates that packaging solution has already been redesigned so they have comparable policies in place. We also that manuals and accessories are no longer included include human and labour rights in our due diligence in the shipment. of suppliers, which is undertaken by our sourcing and quality teams. Non-compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct can result in termination of the Addressing human and labour business relationship. We have undertaken audits of our suppliers based on our Supplier Code of Conduct rights risks and self-assessment questionnaire and have not Our work with human and labour rights focuses detected serious non-compliances during the year. We primarily on our global supply chain, which poses are, at present, developing a new risk-based approach the largest risk. The FOSS Supplier Code of Conduct, to managing sustainability issues in our supply chain. which is available in both English and Mandarin, Each year we produce a Modern Slavery statement addresses labour and human rights areas including: to meet international legislation, which details our forced labour, health and safety, child labour, salaries, efforts in preventing slavery from occurring in our freedom of association, and working hours. All operations. 10 A diverse workplace We employ roughly 1,500 employees many of We are also firmly committed to fostering an inclusive whom have scientific or technical backgrounds. and diverse workplace. We emphasize that in our As a global company working in the analytics and work environment we treat each other as equals, technology area, we see diversity as a real benefit regardless of position. Furthermore, our employment for our organisation. Firstly, it is important to have section on our website profiles both male and female employees who have an insight into the cultures and employees, as well as employees with different markets we operate within, but it is also important nationalities. to have a workforce with different perspectives and competencies. Diverse teams working together and Over the years, we have seen the composition of our sharing ideas and knowledge are key to our future. employees change in Denmark, where approx. 40% of our employees are located. In 2019, roughly 50% Our sustainability policy that is based on the UN Global of our new hires were female, whereas females made Compact guarantees equal rights for all employees up 34% of employees in 2014. Employees with a regardless of ethnicity, gender, religion, and sexual non-Danish background make up roughly 18% of orientation in regards to recruitment, advancement, our new hires. As a growing company, there will be job training and salary. Our policy clearly states that opportunities for advancement for employees, as we discrimination and harassment will not be tolerated aim to fill 50% of leadership positions internally. in our business. Our position is that people should be judged on their merits and the role profile for the job Our HR teams are involved in the employment process they are applying for. to ensure our equal opportunities policy is followed, 11 and our goal is to have at least one female candidate in the final stages of the selection process, granted they have the necessary qualifications. All employees leaving the company are given the opportunity to have an exit interview to discuss the reasons for the decision and to give us an idea on how we can improve. We also regularly conduct employee surveys to gauge satisfaction and motivation – over the past seven years satisfaction has improved with ten index points. We do not see any significant difference between the satisfaction among our male and female employees. FOSS also has a whistleblowing mechanism in place for employees, as well as external stakeholders, to report on any behaviour not in line with FOSS policies. No concerns were raised during the year related to discrimination in our workplace. Embedding good ethical behaviour into our business In line with our belief that business should be Not only has the module been updated to reflect conducted responsibly and with integrity, our business new developments, but it also has been enhanced ethics policy prohibits bribery and corruption in all its with audio to guide participants through the course. forms, and addresses areas such as conflict of interest, Our board chairman Peter Foss, who emphasises gift-giving, facilitation payments, and charitable how important business ethics is to our business and as well as political donations. To reduce the risk of reputation, introduces the course. any of our employees being involved in unethical behaviour, it is imperative that they understand our As in the earlier version, the module includes high standards and what we stand for as a company. information on our sustainability program, customer sustainability requirements, and presents participants We recently rolled out our updated Ethics E-learning with “real life” scenarios where they must weigh the program, which was initially launched three years pros and cons of their options. A checklist is provided ago. Our focus is on our global Sales and Service to assist them in taking the appropriate course of functions as they have been identified as groups that action. could potentially experience unethical encounters. The course is compulsory for those employees in both The course concludes with a quiz to test the functions who have customer interface. The phased participants’ understanding and comprehension of global rollout took place from September through the presented material, as well as information on our November 2019. whistleblowing system. 12 Our objective was to reach a global completion chains. It is used by more than 60,000 members in rate of 95% by the end of 2019. By the end of the 180 countries to manage sustainability performance year over 600 staff had completed the training and around labour rights, health & safety, the environment we surpassed that goal. Both our Sales and Service and business ethics. As a member, our production teams will be required to re-take the Ethics training facilities are audited once every 2-3 years by a 3rd party every two years and in the future, completion of and the results are shared with multiple customers to the ethics module will be a mandatory part of our meet their supplier sustainability requirements. As online on-boarding curriculum for both departments. SEDEX reviews and updates the audit on a regular In addition to our ethics training, our whistleblowing basis to meet the current needs of responsible system enables employees to raise concerns about sourcing and legislation changes, our participation violations of our policies including the ethics area. No enables us to improve our performance continuously. issues were raised over the past year. Collaborating to improve Driving continuous sustainability in the food chain improvements through SEDEX At FOSS, collaboration is critical to the success of FOSS is a member of SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data our business as well as for our mission to develop Exchange), the world’s largest collaborative platform solutions that contribute to a more sustainable use for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply of the world’s food resources. Over the years, we 13 have been at the forefront of analytical technology The recipient of the 2019 European Excellence award and have developed solutions that provide tangible received EUR 100,000 of which at least 75% must sustainable benefits for customers in a range of be used for further research, and the recipient of industries. However, with population growth and the Talent Prize received EUR 15,000 without any scarcity of resources, global food production faces limitations. Through the Nils Foss Excellence Prize and enormous challenges. To address these challenges Talent prize, we acknowledge, support and hope to we need to collaborate and innovate with a range stimulate research in the development of technology of stakeholders including academia, industry and to improve value and sustainability in the food supply governments. chain. Our late founder, Nils Foss, was a passionate advocate In 2019, FOSS also entered into a strategic partnership of innovation in the field of analytical technology with the Technical University of Denmark with the and its application to improve productivity in food, purpose of collaborating in the areas of research, feed and agriculture. To honour his memory and development and education. The university is one of achievements, FOSS established the Nils Foss the highest ranked technical universities in Europe Excellence Prize and Talent Prize. The awards, which where education, scientific advice, and innovation were established in 2016, acknowledge the work of rest on a solid foundation of excellent research. The established scientists and young talents. The awards focus of the engagement will be artificial intelligence are presented to scientists who have demonstrated in food and agriculture, food and agriculture analysis, exceptional innovative research, and upcoming talents food and agriculture safety, and finally sensors and who have shown promising results in the scientific measurement technologies. Our goal is to create fields around safe and sustainable food production. a mutually rewarding relationship and sharing of The Award Committee includes members from the knowledge to develop sustainable solutions in the Danish scientific and the food production. food and agricultural sector. 14 Our UN Global Compact Progress report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the See our Sustainability policy on our website: protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; https://www.fossanalytics.com/ and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in See pages 5,6,7,10 and 11 human rights abuses Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of See our Sustainability policy and our website. association and the effective recognition of the right to Also see page 10 collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and See our Sustainability policy, page 10 and Modern compulsory labour; Slavery statement on our website. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and See our Sustainability Policy and page 10 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect See our Sustainability Policy and page 11 of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary See our Sustainability Policy and pages, 8, 9 and 10 approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater See our Sustainability Policy and pages, 8, 9 and 10 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion See pages 8, 9 and 10 of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupSee our Sustainability Policy and pages 5 and 12 tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 15
