CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 OUR PROMISE Play is instinctively human. When we are children, play Today, digital technologies change the way we live our is how we have fun, learn, socialize, and are physically lives. This includes why, how, and where we play and are active. As we get older, it’s really the same play is key to physically active as individuals, families, and communia long and happy life. ties. We take responsibility for driving this change, as we have historically to continuously lead the industry and Through our inventions, we have set new global standreinvent play for everyone’s beneﬁt ards for ways to play, seeking to create the world’s best playground and sport & ﬁtness solutions. Let’s play! KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2019 TO UNITED We do this because we have a passion to create healthier and happier communities by inspiring people across the world to play more. We do it the KOMPAN way, where product development is based on thorough research, extensive user involvement, and close collaboNATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ration with experts through the KOMPAN Play Institute and KOMPAN Sport & Fitness Institute. Statement of continued support by the CEO We then tailor the right solutions to the speciﬁc user and customer requirements. This creates products that motivate people of all ages and abilities to play more, be more physically active, and learn and socialize more TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: while always having fun. I am pleased to conﬁrm that KOMPAN reafﬁrms its supIn addition, KOMPAN maintained its environmental We never compromise on safety and our choice of the port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global proﬁle as reported in earlier COPs and planning of new highest quality materials creates extremely durable soluCompact in the areas of Environment, Climate, Social, initiatives, which will be implemented in the coming tions that stand the test of time and weather. We are also Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. years. conscious that our designs should be beautiful both in their own right and as a contribution to their architectural In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe KOMPAN has maintained its female representation in its and natural surroundings. our actions to improve the integration of the Global ComSupervisory Board in 2019. KOMPAN will also in the future pact and its principles into our business strategy continustrive to increase the percentage of the underrepresentously, culture and daily operations. We also commit to ed gender on the supervisory board in accordance with share this information with our stakeholders using our the Danish Act on Public and Private Limited Companies primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, In 2019 our business ethics policy implementation, including the anti-bribery policy for the entire KOMPAN group of companies continued. Contents Connie Astrup-Larsen Chief Executive Officer KOMPAN Communication on Progress for 2019 to United Nations Global Compact.............................................................................3 Environment..................................................................................................................4 Climate..........................................................................................................................5 Social ............................................................................................................................6 Human Rights...............................................................................................................9 Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................11 2 WWW.KOMPAN.COM WWW.KOMPAN.COM 3 ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE For a brighter future, we never stop investigating ways LOWER WASTE In KOMPAN we have an overall strategy to minimize our At the main production site in the Czech Republic we to reduce our environmental footprint. In sourcing, every In the years to come KOMPAN will focus even more on impact on the climate and we constantly focus on continconstantly work with optimizing in all areas, not only in effort is made to use totally sustainable resources or raw how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce uing how to reduce our footprint on the climate. It is our terms of waste and use of raw material, but also in terms materials generated through recycled waste. In manuenvironmental hazards. ambition and part of our core value to show responsibilof energy consumption in the production. This optimizafacturing, what little waste we have is recycled. Being a ity in all our actions. KOMPAN assess that our discharge tion is driven by various areas for example by new and global producer of playgrounds and fitness equipment One way to minimize waste is to focus on recycling. In of CO2 caused by travel, company cars and energy conmodern production machinery, optimizing workflows the main risk related to the environment is the footprint the workshop, material usage is optimized, and the rest sumption have the main influence on the climate and to and planning of production. In 2019 KOMPAN managed caused by production and usage of raw material. In play, is recycled. For example, the cutting-out process of panreduce this discharge, KOMPAN has strict policies within to lower its consumption of electricity, even though the 100% safe products are the target and the number one els is computer generated in order to minimize residue. these areas. production volume increased signiﬁcantly. From 2018 to priority. This, like every offcut of plastic, every speck of sawdust is 2019 the consumption of electricity, relatively to the progathered and recycled. The KOMPAN EcoCoreTM panel, It is KOMPAN policy for employees only to travel when it duction volume, was reduced from 0,94% to 0,86%. In the As a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, made of layers of HDPE, has many applications in playis strictly necessary, hence all travel needs approval by future, we will strive to keep the optimization in focus and KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental grounds and outdoor ﬁtness, such as sides, roofs and management. To minimize travel KOMPAN use conferkeep our electricity consumption relative to the producconsiderations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable seats. It is a highly durable, eco-friendly panel, which ence rooms and technology to execute virtual meettion volume at less than 1%, a ﬁgure which is currently products with a long lifespan, which require a low level is not only recyclable after use, but also consists of a ing via video conference to the largest extent possible. already met. of maintenance. We aim to use materials and technolocore produced from 100% recycled, controlled material. In 2019 there has again been an increase in the use of gies, that have minimal impact on the environment, and Wood-plastic composite panels are used for our Multi video conferences, which reduced the number of flights whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certiﬁed sources. Use Games Areas. These are made of recycled wood at the KOMPAN headquarter with 14% compared to 2018. and HDPE. Besides its green proﬁle, the panel has the KOMPAN’s production plant in the Czech Republic is ISO same textural look as wood, is highly durable and never KOMPAN has also included considerations about climate 14001 certiﬁed, which implies a speciﬁc and structured needs painting or treating with oil. The high durability in our company car policy. Climate responsibility and management approach to environmental issues. The also minimizes renewal of parts of the playgrounds and awareness can be executed when leasing cars, thereplants in the Czech Republic and Germany have furtherﬁtness solutions. fore all leases must be cars with a maximum CO2 emismore implemented control systems that work for complision limit at 130 g/km. The policy also prescribes that ance with requirements on active substances in accesThe development in output of wooden waste, plastic SUV and 4x4 cars are not an option within KOMPAN. sible components, and independent third-party tests are waste and iron and steel waste from the main producrun. tion facility in Brno, Czech Republic, have been kept on an almost steady and in some years even decreasing KOMPAN’s choice of materials are carefully considered. low level. Majority of waste in the production are recyRobinia is amongst the most proliﬁc of trees, it is strong cled in materials for new products or in other industries. and grows rapidly, the perfect partner for our wooden products. Our Robinia suppliers come from European We will strive to reduce the waste output annually by at plantations and from natural forests operating under least 3% compared to the previous year. The ambition responsible sustainable forest management. We also was meet in 2019. offer types of wood certiﬁed by FSC®. Plastic is a part of KOMPAN’s production materials, hence it is important to be aware of certain elements. A great playground interacts with children, and children touch, jump, slide, kick and might even kiss or lick the playground. That is why all surfaces need to be safe. We go beyond the required outdoor playground standards and comply with the toy standard EN 71-3 for Migration of Certain Elements. 4 WWW.KOMPAN.COM WWW.KOMPAN.COM 5 SAFE WORKING ENVIROMENT SICK LEAVE The amount of lost hours related to accidents (LTA: Lost KOMPAN is a workplace with a focus on the employees’ Time Accidents) remained at a low level in 2019, despite physical and mental working environment conditions. the signiﬁcant increase in new employees related to the A good example of this is the health insurance, which growth in volume. LTA decreased to 4.168 hours in 2019 is offered to all our employees. The health insurance (4.576 hours in 2018), corresponding to 0,66% (0,82% in provides, among other things, the opportunity to receive 2018) of the total production time. No serious injuries treatment, physiotherapy, stress management etc. happened in the company in 2019. We look with great interest at sick leave and strive to To focus even more on safety, the 6 Safety standards (6S reduce short-term and long-term sick leave through prestandards) has been implemented. The sustainability of vention and close dialogue with sick leaved employees 6S standards will be ensured through regular audits to with a view to recovery and a quick return to work. identify possible risks. Our aim is to prevent accidents SOCIAL and production time loss in the entire plant. In 2019, sick leave in KOMPAN remained at a low level and below the target of 2% for white-collar employees. We will continue a structured and managed approach to In KOMPAN A/S, the sick leave decreased to 1,2% (2018: work actively for a safe and healthy working environment 1,5%). In the main production unit, sick leave for white As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regardand Safety policy focuses on preventing injuries and illfor our employees and strive to retain LTA below 1% in collars increased slightly to 1,0% (2018: 0,8%). For blue ing the fundamental labor standards are at our suppliness, ensuring that we comply with all legal regulations 2019. The focus on work safety will especially be in wood collars in the main production, the sick leave increased to ers. We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating and that we efﬁciently and actively involve our employprocessing where the exposure to injuries is the highest. 7,9% (2018: 3,6%) in 2019, with an ambition of maximum parties are complicit in using, for example, child labor, ees in the matter. As an important step in this direction, 5%. The increase during 2019 is explained by an increase forced labor or prohibiting the right to association and our largest factory located in Czech Republic is certiﬁed in long-term sick leave which is expected to decrease collective bargaining. You can read more about our work according to OHSAS 18001 an occupational health and below the targeted level in 2020. with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines safety management system. This implies that the operunder the section Supplier Code of Conduct. ating practices are up to date and in compliance with health and safety requirements. It further enables our For KOMPAN’s own activities, we aim to make sure that organization to control and gain knowledge of all relwe provide our employees with a safe working environevant risks and hazards, and consequently improves our ment, be that in the headquarters in Odense, Denmark, performance. The latest surveillance audit for our Safety or in the factories in Germany, the Czech Republic and Management System was performed by Bureau Veritas Poland as well as in our sales companies around the in 2019 and passed without any non-conformity ﬁndings. world. Occupational health and safety are an equivalent and integral part of all activities of KOMPAN and one of our permanent top priorities. Our Occupational Health 6 WWW.KOMPAN.COM WWW.KOMPAN.COM 7 HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN, we are committed to support and respect it highly inclusive, supporting a wide variety of body internationally declared human rights, and not to be positions: children and adults can sit, lie, or stand while complicit in any human rights abuses. Our largest chalspinning. The transparency of the Galaxy products and lenges and risks in terms of human rights are found in the varied ground-level access and activities also create our global value chain. We have suppliers located in centers of play across the play unit. This makes possible Asia, which usually implies higher risks of human rights play interaction for all, everywhere in the structure. The violations occurring, for example, in terms of working open design ensures wheelchair accessibility. hours or labor rights. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, So, when designers turn an original idea into a concept, which all suppliers must commit to and sign. Our work there is one golden aim, that everyone takes something with the code of conduct and suppliers is elaborated positive out of visit to a KOMPAN playground. Good further below. health, like play, is for everyone. GENDER DISTRIBUTION Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have the Article 2 (deﬁnition): “Universal design” means the design In accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private The Group will continually strive to increase the number right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range of of products, environments, programs and services to Limited Companies, the Supervisory Board has set a tarof women in the global management and in the mancultural, artistic and other recreational activities. (UN be usable by all people, to the greatest extent possible, get for increasing the percentage of the underrepresented agement of KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiaries by 2025. Convention on the Rights of the Child) without the need for adaptation or specialized design. gender on the supervisory board and outlined a policy The management has a mutual responsibility of identify(United Nations’ Convention on the Rights of Persons with to increase the level of the underrepresented gender in ing and developing employees with an aspiration of a Through our business activity, KOMPAN supports the Disabilities) other managerial functions. The deﬁnition of managers career within management and/or area responsibility UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily is “managers with staff responsibility or managers with and/or development of specialists within their ﬁeld. In the basis, our products encourage and enable children to The World Health Organization has truly set its eyes on special strategic responsibilities in corporate functions”. selection process, management has focus on the overplay and be active, and this has beneﬁcial impact on children’s physical activity level and motor skills. Why? all responsibility of a well-balanced gender distribution their development in terms of motor coordination, inResearch documents that physical activity is elementary The management has decided to report on target numin the future management level without compromising tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an for all other developmental areas of early childhood bers and policies for the underrepresented gender in the abilities, ambitions and talent. important role in the efforts against physical inactivity, and that early year’s development and learning investcompanies of the Group comprised by the rules, i.e. KOMoverweight and obesity among children and teenagers. ments give the best ROI for society. KOMPAN takes on the PAN Holding A/S and KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiaries. With one woman appointed as member of the Board of KOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds, which will help responsibility for motivating and scaffolding physical play Directors of KOMPAN Holding A/S and KOMPAN A/S, the improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun and motor skills in children. For their well-being now and The global gender distribution by the end of 2019 was goal of 25% representation of women on the Board of Disurrounding. for the future of our societies. approximately 65% men (2018: 66%) and 35% women rectors by 2019 is met. Excluding the staff elected board (2018: 34%). The proportion of women in group managemembers, the Board of Directors of both KOMPAN HoldKOMPAN continuously develops and advances our conment constituted 33% (2018: 33%) and in the manageing A/S and KOMPAN A/S is represented by one woman cepts and products. We do this based on the knowledge USER -CE NT ment of KOMPAN A/S and its subsidiaries with approxiand two men in both companies. we gather in KOMPAN Play Institute where, among other RIC DE SI mately 28% women (2018: 26%) and 72% men (2018: 74%). things we do studies on children’s play. USER-CEN GN & PH TRIC YS T MEN IC In 2019, KOMPAN expanded its outdoor sport and ﬁtness RES LOP LEA RN ITY concept even further, which will have numerous positive EA IN TIV VE AC DE G RC AL effects on both children and adults. H HAPPIER & HEALTHIER KOMPAN’s playgrounds and ﬁtness sites must be for all. SOCIETIES Inclusive play is at the very core of everything KOMPAN aims for. The result is universal designs that embrace the SO needs of all. In universal playgrounds, all children can CIA L I N TE R A C TI O N play on their own together with peers or with their parents. There is no need for segregated areas, which might have a stigmatizing effect. For example, the top frame PLAY-VALUE and spacious platform of the Tipi Carousel makes 8 WWW.KOMPAN.COM WWW.KOMPAN.COM 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to KOMPAN executes continuously training in our Busisustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN, ness ethics policy, including an anti-bribery policy for we do not accept these practices and therefore do not all employees in the group. The policy concerns bribery, accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busifacilitation payments, gifts/entertainment, political contriness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our butions and charity contributions. Furthermore, the policy supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to concerns conflicts of interest, treatment of conﬁdential everyone interested in knowing more. Principles to work information and competition law compliance. against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct. KOMPAN will continue to develop its focus on compliance issues through the coming years. Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN in terms of working actively with the issue in our own activities. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT As a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equipconduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existment KOMPAN must comply with a number of standards ing agreement will be terminated. in terms of product safety and environment. It is therefore central to us that our suppliers adhere to the same KOMPAN takes a risk-based approach to our suppliers. standards as we do. Our supplier code of conduct deThis means that our suppliers are grouped according scribes the requirements KOMPAN expects all our supplito the risks associated with the characteristics of their ers to adhere to and comply with. The code of conduct is geographical location. We have some suppliers from based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and Asia, which we associate with higher risks than possibly covers the following areas: suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to audit the high-risk suppliers at least once a year. At the Child labor, discrimination, forced labor, working environsupplier audits, which are either carried out by KOMPAN ment, working hours and salary, the right to organize employees or by third party auditors, a standardized and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor (pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals in including all aspects of our code of conduct are disand hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water cussed during the visit. and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and products), and corruption. In 2019, more than 99% our suppliers of raw materials or components have signed the code of conduct, meeting When making new or renewing contracts the supplier the target set of more than 95%. must conﬁrm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of 10 WWW.KOMPAN.COM WWW.KOMPAN.COM 11 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com KOMPAN A/S C.F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 info@kompan.com www.kompan.com CVR. nr. 40 55 98 17
