Infinite Future Sustainability Report China Mobile Limited Contents 02 Chairman’s Statement 04 China Mobile: Establishing a World-class Enterprise 06 Feature: 5G is Here 08 Sustainability Strategy Jointly Building the Engine of a Smart Society 10 Helping Win the Fight against COVID-19 in the Spirit of Solidarity 12 Building Digital Infrastructure 15 Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem 18 Empowering Construction of a Smart Society 22 Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption 26 Summary of Our Key Performances Jointly Creating an Inclusive Good Life for All 28 ”Blue Dream”, Innovating on Education for Poverty Alleviation 30 Supporting Poverty Alleviation and Public Welfare 35 Promoting Coordinated Regional Development 37 Growing Together with Employees 42 Summary of Our Key Performances Jointly Shaping a Harmonious Ecology 44 Safeguarding Lucid Waters and Lush Mountains with Smart Applications 46 Developing Innovative Green Solutions 48 Promoting Low Carbon, Circular Development 51 Summary of Our Key Performances 53 Feature: Responsible Operations 56 Sustainability Management 60 Independent Assurance Report 62 About This Report 63 Report Disclosure Indexes Chairman’s Statement 5G+, Opening a New Chapter of an Intelligent Era President Xi Jinping has highlighted sustainable development provided broadband access to a total of 43,000 administrative as a “golden key” to solving global problems. In 2019, 5G villages, among which 38,000 villages were covered by wireline commercial services were launched in China. As an information broadband and 4,564 villages were covered by 4G network. We artery of society, an accelerator of industry transformation and have provided free surgical treatment for nearly 6,000 children upgrade, and a new cornerstone for building a digital society, from low-income families diagnosed with congenital heart 5G is bringing us a brand-new era of digital economy, providing disease with our Heart Caring program, and helped train more new solutions to challenges faced by all mankind in the pursuit than 127,000 rural primary and secondary school principals from of sustainable development, and creating a new frontier for central and western China with our Blue Dream Education Aid value creation. Following its strategy of becoming a worldPlan. Our parent company received the top recognition in the class enterprise by building a dynamic “Powerhouse”, China targeted poverty alleviation assessment of central enterprises, Mobile is committed to becoming a major force in building a as well as the 2019 National Poverty Alleviation Award “Cyberpower”, digital nation and smart society and strives to Contribution Award. fully implement its “5G+” plan to support the nation’s highPromoting green development to jointly shape a harmonious quality development, help address the problems of unbalanced ecology. Adhering to the belief that “lucid waters and lush and inadequate development, and meet people’s needs for a mountains are invaluable assets”, we have been implementing better life. This is being achieved by promoting the convergence, the Green Action Plan for 13 consecutive years to promote integration and digitization of 5G in every aspect of both the environmental sustainability by researching and developing of national economy and people's daily life, thereby making energy-saving technologies, enhancing our climate resilience, concrete efforts to contribute to the realization of the United implementing green operation and management, and driving Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). energy conservation and emission reduction of our supply chain. Empowering the digital economy to jointly build the engine We have actively developed and promoted environmental ICT of a smart society. We are committed to building worldsolutions that support real-time collection and efficient processing class intelligent infrastructure, continuously improving our of massive, multi-dimensional environmental data, and our “Blue independent innovation capabilities in 5G, and accelerating its Guardian” application provided informatization support for air integration with related fields, including artificial intelligence pollution prevention and control in 300 regions at county level (AI), internet of things (IoT), cloud computing, big data and edge or above, helping fight the battle against pollution. In 2019, we computing. We aim to strengthen the open cooperation with invested RMB160 million in the Green Action Plan and achieved upstream and downstream partners in more areas and at higher remarkable energy conservation and emission reduction results, levels. We strive to promote sustainable economic development reducing our overall energy consumption per unit of information by integrating 5G into every industry and every walk of life flow by 43% compared with the previous year. and fully releasing the magnification, superimposition and In the spring of 2020, the battle against the COVID-19 epidemic multiplication effects of 5G technology on the empowerment was raging. The prevention and control of the epidemic is not of economic and social development. As of the end of 2019, only directly related to China’s future but also to the common we were serving 950 million mobile customers, 172 million future of humanity. “The safety and health of the people are household broadband customers and 10.28 million corporate always the first priority. Epidemic prevention and control is the customers, put over 50,000 5G base stations in operation, and most important task at the moment.” China Mobile plays an officially launched 5G commercial services in 50 cities in China. active role to ensure network and service coverage, and fulfils Meanwhile, our mobile authentication platform processed 1.2 its epidemic prevention and control responsibilities, going all billion times of authentication per day on average, and our out for winning the battle against the epidemic and minimizing OneNET IoT platform brought together 11,825 enterprise users its impact. It is worth mentioning that 5G has manifested its and empowered nearly 150,000 developers. We also carried out technological and operational strengths in the fight against 5G innovation pilot projects and collaborated with our partners the epidemic. A variety of applications including 5G-based to promote innovative applications in various fields, such as telecommuting, remote medical services and distance education medical care, education, energy and manufacturing, supporting provide novel solutions to help people return to work and resume the digital transformation and upgrade of the relevant industries. normal life, showing great potential to create value for society. Adhering to a people-oriented approach to jointly create Right now, 5G has just started to demonstrate its potential in an inclusive good life for all. We insist on a people-centered social value innovation. China Mobile is committed to serving development philosophy and strive to promote the sustainable as a leader in 5G network construction, a promoter of industry development of society by leveraging our information technology application of 5G technology and a pioneer in providing advantages to implement the Telecommunications Universal 5G services to the public. To support society’s high-quality Service Project and promote “speed upgrade and tariff development and improve people’s quality of life, we will waste reduction”, ensuring equal opportunities for less developed areas no time and spare no effort in working together with innovators and disadvantaged groups with innovative approaches, working from different industries to jointly explore and promote 5G with our parent company to intensify support for designated intelligent solutions, thereby creating an intelligent and better areas and targeted poverty alleviation programs, continuing future for all. our brand public welfare programs, and providing all-out support for China’s coordinated regional development strategy and the Belt and Road Initiative. We continued to implement the Telecommunications Universal Service Project, and have 22 March 2020 董事长致辞 Yang Jie Chairman China Mobile Limited 33 China Mobile: Establishing a World-class Enterprise Incorporated on September 3, 1997 in Hong Kong, China Mobile Limited (”China Mobile”, ”the Company” or ”we”) is the largest telecommunications service provider in Mainland China. The Company serves the world’s largest number of mobile customers and operates the world’s largest mobile network, maintaining a leading position in the telecommunications market in Mainland China. The Company provides full communications services in all 31 provinces, autonomous regions and directly-administered municipalities throughout Mainland China and in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Its businesses primarily consist of mobile voice and data business, wireline broadband and other information and communications services. The Company’s ultimate controlling shareholder is China Mobile Communications Group Co., Ltd. (“our parent company”), which, as of December 31, 2019, indirectly held 72.72% of the total number of issued shares of the Company, while the remaining approximately 27.28% was held by public investors. For more information about the Company’s governance structure and the organizational structure, please refer to China Mobile Limited’s 2019 Annual Report. Operating revenue Taxation Number of employees RMB 745.9 billion RMB 35.3 billion 456,239 Number of mobile customers Number of household broadband customers 950 million 172 million Number of corporate customers Number of IoT customers 10.28 million 884 million Ranked 27th in the 2019 Forbes ”Global 2000 – The World’s Largest Public Companies” list The ”China Mobile” brand was included in the ”BrandZ™ Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands” list published by Millward Brown and Financial Times for the 14th consecutive year, ranking 27th globally Listed in the ”Top Ten Model Brands of 2019” at China Media Group’s 2019 China Brand Power Grand Ceremony Won the Gold Award in ”The Asset ESG Corporate Awards 2019” held by financial magazine The Asset Awarded the accolades of ”Sustainability and Social Responsibility Reporting Awards” in the H-share Companies and Other Mainland Enterprises Category in the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ 20th annual ”Best Corporate Governance Awards” Awarded the accolades of “Asia’s Most Honored Companies” in the “2019 All Asia Executive Team Poll” held by Institutional Investor Awarded the accolades of the Best of Asia – “Icon on Corporate Governance” in the “15th Corporate Governance Asia Recognition Awards 2019” held by Corporate Governance Asia 4 In 2019, China Mobile’s parent company The “Powerhouse” strategy: Aiming at becoming a major force in building a was selected by the State-owned Assets “Cyberpower”, digital nation and smart society, and focusing on achieving Supervision and Administration Commishigh-quality development with transformation and upgrade as well as reform sion of the State Council (“SASAC”) as and innovation, we strive to build a scale-based value creation system with one of the ten world-class demonstration convergence, integration and digitization as well as an efficient and coordinated enterprises. With this historic status, we system of organization and operation with capability, collaboration and vitality. have developed a strategy for China MoTo lay a solid foundation for becoming a world-class enterprise, we will further bile to become a world-class enterprise implement the “5G+” plan, drive our business beyond communication services by building a dynamic “Powerhouse”, towards the broader information services, shift our focus from the mobile market which summarizes the overall roadmap to the CHBN “four growth engines” of the customer, home, business and for our transformation and upgrade in new markets, and transform and upgrade our development model from being the next stage. resource-driven to being innovation-driven. Building a Dynamic ”Powerhouse” to Become a World-class Enterprise China Mobile: Establishing a World-class Enterprise Build a world-class enterprise Become a major force in building a cyberpower, a digital China and a smart society High-quality development Transformation and upgrade Reforms and innovation Scale-based and value-oriented operations system Synergetic and efficient operations system Convergence Integration Digitization Capability Collaboration Vitality Fully implement the 5G+plan, maintain a leading position and facilitate economic and social development Scale up connection base Strengthen connection applications Provide premium connection services “Customer” market (C) “Home” market (H) “Business” market (B) “New” market (N) We are fully aware that a world-class enterprise requires world-class social responsibility. As a telecommunications operator, we are obliged to provide inclusive and high-quality information and communication services for the widest group of people; as a corporate citizen, we are obliged to become a major force in turning China into a smart society; and as a member of the community with a shared future for mankind, we are obliged to innovate on the “China Plan” and contribute to the realization of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The three roles and their corresponding responsibilities are both the starting point and the foothold for China Mobile to fulfil its social responsibilities. Adhering to the people-centered development philosophy, we strive to become a world-class enterprise and a model of sustainability by leveraging our business expertise and resource endowment, and promoting the integration of sustainability into our business strategy, contributing to creating a better life for mankind with our tireless efforts. 5 Feature: 5G is Here Currently, the development of the global digital economy has entered a new stage featured by cross-sectoral integration and systematic innovation and driven by intelligence. The new generation of information technology represented by 5G is rapidly catalyzing systematic, revolutionary and collective technological breakthroughs and industry changes. While injecting new vitality into economic development, 5G has also opened up vast space for China Mobile to fulfil its social responsibility and create social value. The features of 5G – ultra-high speed, ultra-low latency and ultra-wide connection – provide more ideas and solutions for helping all mankind jointly tackle the challenges of sustainable development. In order to materialize the infinite possibilities brought about by 5G, the Company has launched the “5G+” plan to speed up the integration of 5G into every industry and every walk of life. We aim to drive the gradual but in-depth integration of the ubiquitous intelligent 5G-based infrastructure with people’s pursuit of a better life, industry transformation and upgrade as well as social governance innovation, among other aspects, to contribute to the delivery of more inclusive 5G services accessible to all sectors of society. China Mobile ”5G+” Plan 5G+4G 5G+AICDE Coordinated Integrated & Development Joint Innovations Standard Headed the development of A (Artificial Intelligence) Officially released the first 61 ITU (International Telecommunication self-developed AI platform (JIUTIAN) in China, integrating Union) and 3GPP (3rd Generation Part42 self-developed and external AI capabilities nership Project) international standards, I (Internet of Things) Upgraded OneNET & OneLink platranking 1st among global telecom operaforms’ connectivity, with 160 million OneNET connections tors and more than 600 million OneLink connections Network Deployed over 50,000 5G base C (Cloud Computing) Planned to build the “N+31+X” stations, and officially launched 5G commernationwide mobile cloud resource pool and deploy 4 cencial services in 50 cities tralized IDCs (Internet Data Centers) and 45 provincial-level Industry Conducted large-scale 5G netlarge-scale IDCs work trials, pursued a comparable level of D (Big Data) Processed over 1,100 TB of data per day on maturity in the 2.6GHz and 3.5GHz industry the big data platform, and provided comprehensive and chains, and promoted the development of agile storage, data and tool opening capabilities SA (Standalone) end-to-end industry E (Edge Computing) Built a hierarchical edge computing system, introduced edge cloud products and developed edge computing service capabilities, and built the largest CDN (Content Delivery Network) in the world and increased 6 the number of distribution websites to 93,000 June 6, 2019 The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) of China issued the “Fifth Generation Digital Cellular Mobile Communication Service” basic telecom operating permits to four companies including China Mobile June 25, 2019 China Mobile officially released ”5G+” plan in Shanghai October 31, 2019 China Mobile officially launched 5G commercial services, with 5G commercial plans introduced simultaneously November 15, 2019 China Mobile proposed five upgrades at the Global Partners Conference, namely deepening intelligent upgrade of network capabilities, facilitating industry transformation and upgrade, promoting the upgrade of information consumption experience, accelerating the upgrade of full-range user services, and achieving the upgrade of the open cooperation ecosystem February 29, 2020 The number of China Mobile 5G package customers reached 15.4 million, maintaining an industryleading position Feature: 5G is Here 5G+Ecology 5G+X Collaborative Wider Ecology Applications Cultivation 5G Joint Innovation Center Constructed 25 open labs with over 500 vertical industry partners China Mobile 5G Device Forerunner Industry Alliance Tariffs and Devices Released 5G ToC (customer) and Brought together more than 110 partners, covering ToH (home) tariff packages (including benefits), as well fields such as mobile devices, chips, applications, soluas 32 5G devices such as 5G smart phones, modules, tions, etc. chips and AR (Augmented Reality)/VR (Virtual Reality) devices China Mobile IoT Alliance Attracted more than 1,400 members from 26 industry fields and eight maCustomer service Set up 5G user service seats to jor segments of the IoT industry chain provide one-stop convenient service without changing SIMs or numbers and without further registration China Mobile 5G Industry Digital Alliance Gathered more than 100 strategic partners, and hosted Public application Carried out large-scale application more than 1,000 product promotion events nationwide of 5G Ultra high-definition (HD) real 4K/8K live broadcasting, offering over 30 new industry-pioneering ap5G Smart Education Alliance, 5G Industry IoT Alplications liance, 5G+Video CRBT (Coloring Ring Back Tone) Industry Alliance, 5G Energy Internet Alliance, 5G Industry application Promoted about 50 5G industry Agricultural Digital Alliance, 5G Precise Positioning demonstration applications, many of which were the first in their respective industries Alliance 7 Sustainability Strategy Since the first mobile phone system was created in 1987, China’s information and communications technology (ICT) sector has made enormous strides. China Mobile has been a witness, participant and builder of this development that has undergone “blankness in 1G, following in 2G, making breakthroughs in 3G, keeping pace in 4G, and striving for leadership in 5G”. Always bearing in mind the corporate mission and founding aspiration to “Communicate a Boundless World and Construct an Information Society”, China Mobile aims to become a world-class enterprise and pledges to drive and lead the upgrade and development of China’s ICT sector, in order to continuously meet people’s growing digital needs and become a model for advancing human civilization. Back in 2006, China Mobile established China Mobile “Tree of Responsibility” its corporate responsibility philosophy: “With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responTo facilitate the prosibility, our social responsibility and vision of equal develour environmental responsibility”. opment opportunities The Company fully incorporates the requirements for fulfilling its social for a wider group of responsibility into its strategy and acpeople and the harmoCoexistence nious coexistence of tion plan for developing into a worldclass company, and builds on the role mankind and nature of information and communications technologies to connect and empower, To draw on the Comthereby enabling all stakeholders to pany’s expertise, proplay to their strengths. vide sustainable prodThe focus of China Mobile social reucts and services, and sponsibility efforts goes as follows: maximize the empowempowering stakeholders with ICT to Competence erment of stakeholders achieve all-win in economic, social and to jointly create rich environmental sustainability. Specificalsocial value ly, there are three layers: “Compliance” (the roots), “Competence” (the trunk), and “Coexistence” (the leaves). InterTo comply with laws Compliance connected and progressive, these three and regulations, operlayers form the China Mobile “Tree of ate with integrity, and Responsibility”, which embodies the earnestly fulfil product conceptual core and behavioral logic and operation responof China Mobile’s social responsibility sibilities efforts. 4G Keeping 5G Striving for 3G Making leadership 2G Following breakthroughs pace 1G Blankness From mainstream to From marginal to mainFrom nothing to someleading, achieving Constructed the world’s stream, TD-LTE leading Wireless communithing, filling the void full global leadership largest mobile netthe industry to realize cation becoming a in industries like chip in the development work, cultivating local group breakthroughs reality and instrument of technology, stanmanufacturers Leading the course of dards, industry and The world’s only operaTDD development and cross-sectoral applicator of TD-SCDMA netrealizing the vision tion of 5G work of ”mobile changing Achieving the goal of Becoming a major force life” “taking up 1/3 of the in building a “Cybermarket” in China power”, digital nation and smart society All-IP voice Internet of Digital voice Mobile broadband Intellignet Things Digital voice Midand high-speed Analogue voice Low-speed data data 2020s 2010s 1990s 2000s 1980s 8 As 5G opens up massive opportunities, the Company is set to fully unlock its vast potential for supporting high-quality economic and social development. We will join hands with various industries and seek to combine 5G with emerging technologies such as AI, IoT, cloud computing, big data and edge computing to help build an inclusive digital economy where everyone benefits and enjoys a better, sustainable digital life. Taking “Responsible Operations & High-quality Development” as our foothold, we will strive to fully fulfil our responsibilities in economic, social and environmental dimensions. Striking out in the three directions of “Jointly Building the Engine of a Smart Society”, “Jointly Creating an Inclusive Good Life for All”, and “Jointly Shaping a Harmonious Ecology”, we will push forward the nine key sustainability actions on all fronts and contribute to the realization of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. China Mobile “139” Sustainability Action Model Jointly Building Continue to extend connection boundary, increase connectivity and empower vertical industries; make the Engine of Jointly Building an all-out effort to make 5G the new impetus to integrated innovation and information consumption, and the new engine of industry upgrade and continued economic growth. a Smart Society Economic the Engine of a Smart Society 1. Building Digital Infrastructure 2. Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem Responsibility 3. Empowering Construction of a Smart Society 4. Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption Sustainability Strategy Continue to embrace a people-centered development 3 Areas of Responsibility philosophy and explore the “China Mobile Solution” to Jointly Creating address the unbalanced and inadequate development in High-quality Development China based on new technologies like 5G to meet soci1 Anchor Responsible Operations Social ety’s needs and create social value; strive to be a good 9 Actions corporate citizen in the new era, shoulder new responsibilities and create a better life with stakeholders. an Inclusive Good Life for All Responsibility 5. Supporting Poverty Alleviation and Public Welfare 6. Promoting Coordinated Regional Development 7. Growing Together with Employees 12 Building Digital Infrastructure Continue to embrace harmony between mankind and nature, closely study and assess the 15 Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem Environmental potential impact of business development on the environment, and take effective measures to manage environmental footprint; contin18 Empowering Construction of a Smart Society Responsibility Jointly Shaping ue to develop innovative information-based green solutions, drive energy conservation and emission reduction along the upstream and 22 Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption downstream value chains, and spread ideas of a Harmonious Ecology sustainable consumption and manufacturing to the whole society. 8. Developing Innovative Green Solutions 9. Promoting Low Carbon, Circular Development 9 Helping Win the Fight against COVID-19 in the Spirit of Solidarity Sustainability Context In spring 2020, a battle against the COVID-19 epidemic has taken place across China. In the face of the first “big test” in the 5G era, China Mobile quickly launched the Level 1 emergency response and formed the China Mobile Steering Group for Responding to COVID-19 Outbreak. The Group was tasked with comprehensive coordination work to ensure reliable information support for the prevention and control of the epidemic, such as ensuring reliable communication coverage and services, and providing communication support for disease prevention and control. Strengthened shift arrangements for emergency support, heightened the support level of base stations in key areas to the highest level, strengthened the monitoring and inspection of the Every technological advancement in the information network operation status, and continuously optimized network experience, thereby ensuring the and communications sector produces a strong boost network remained stable, reliable and uninterrupted. to economic and social development. The advent of Cooperated with local governments and promptly provided full 2G/4G/5G network coverage for 5G will make digital information a key factor of proHuoshenshan Hospital and Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan, fully supported the network construcduction. The attributes of digital information, namely Reliable tion at temporary hospitals in Wuhan and other cities, and provided 5G high-definition live broadduplicability, shareability, unlimited growth and free Communication cast of the construction of the Huoshenshan Hospital and Leishenshan Hospital through MIGU flow, break the constraints of the limited supply of Support video which was viewed by over 490 million times. natural resources on growth and augment the internal As of March 16, 2020, the Company had deployed emergency support personnel for over 1.24 mildriving forces and external space of economic growth, lion person-times and emergency vehicles for over 350,000 vehicle-times. thereby laying the foundation for continuous growth and sustainable development. In 2019, 5G commercial services were officially launched in China, providing Activated its customer service response plan to provide tariff reduction and waivers for medical crucial support for strengthening the role of 5G in staff engaged in the epidemic prevention and control efforts in Hubei; exempted epidemic prevendriving the integration and application of areas such tion and control command and dispatch steering groups, frontline medical staff, and users in key as industry development, information consumption epidemic or quarantine zones from service suspension; and collaborated with other telecom operand public services. As the development of 5G takes ators to provide each frontline medical staff in Hubei with RMB1,000 of prepaid mobile account the fast lane, its impact on economic growth, industry credit for free. innovation, and the construction of sustainable cities Adjusted the business hours of stores, required all service personnel to wear masks and carry out disand communities will also be further accentuated. infection regularly, and provided walk-in customers with temperature checks and hand sanitizer. Expanded the service capabilities of electronic channels and disseminated over 50 billion epidemic China Mobile thoroughly implements the ”5G+” plan. control public announcements for government agencies; optimized online services processes such From daily activities to industrial manufacturing and Uninterrupted as SIM card application and broadband installation application, and integrated key operations and inquiries into a new “Convenience Service” section online, to ensure that customers could have from healthcare to the Internet of Everything, we are Service Support their business needs served without leaving home; and launched new services through electronic poised to join hands with industry partners to intechannels such as broadband self-service troubleshooting and epidemic information inquiry, covergrate 5G into all aspects of people’s life and work and ing about 70 million customers. put well-developed 5G networks to good use, thereby Leveraged advantages in 5G and AICDE fields to develop innovative applications to enable scienfueling the development of a smart society together. tific and accurate prevention and control of the epidemic, such as applications for epidemic monitoring and analysis, infection tracing and patient tracking; and offered a variety of information services to meet customers’ needs during the epidemic, such as telecommuting, remote learning and entertainment. Ensured prioritized supply of protective gears for key epidemic prevention and control areas and front-line employees, strengthened the epidemic monitoring, prevention and control of returned employees, devised flexible work arrangements with telecommuting and flexitime, and ensured Comprehensive employees on shifts were properly compensated with allowances and shift arrangements. Epidemic Control Disinfected and ventilated stores, canteens and equipment rooms to avoid cluster and group infections. Support 10 Mounting New Defense against the Epidemic by Leveraging Strengths Early detection, early quarantine and early treatment are crucial to the prevention and control of the epidemic. We worked together with partners and applied 5G+ smart medical solutions to the “battlefront” of the fight against the epidemic. 5G remote medical services system We built a 5G remote medical services system for designated hospitals for treating COVID-19 including the Beijing 301 Hospital and Taikang Tongji Wuhan Hospital to realize “face-to-face” communication between medical personnel in Beijing and Hubei and enable greater expertise in patient treatment. In addition, the application of technologies such as “5G remote medical services cart” and “5G+VR remote observation” has also made diagnosis more convenient and efficient. 5G intelligent medical robots With the support of 5G networks, a number of service robots and disinfection and cleaning robots went on duty in hospitals in Hubei, Zhejiang, Shanghai and other places, where they provided assistance to medical personnel, disseminated knowledge on epidemic prevention, and carried out tasks such as disinfection and cleaning as well as medicine distribution and delivery. The use of those robots greatly reduced the possibility of cross-infection among medical staff in the wards and improved the quality of quarantine management. 5G Thermal Imaging Temperature Measurement System Helping Win the Fight against COVID-19 in the Spirit of Solidarity In response to the risk of the epidemic further spreading due to the peak travel period following the Spring Festival, we launched the 5G Thermal Imaging Temperature Measurement System in Zhejiang, Shanghai, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Sichuan, Guangxi and other places. The technology provided high-precision, safe and continuous temperature screening in places with dense crowds, effectively reducing the risk of cross-infection caused by contact temperature measurement. 5G online outpatient consultation The Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University in Guangdong province provided online doctor consultation based on the 5G online outpatient solution to reduce the risk of cross-infection. Facilitating Normal Functioning of Society by Sharing Resources To help maintain normal day-to-day functioning of society, the Company launched a variety of solutions for working, studying and living at home, thereby supporting people’s efforts to return to work and contributing to epidemic control. Telecommuting The Company provided free services for enterprises including remote conference, multi-party call, Fetion (instant messaging), voice notifications, etc. It also offered users telecommuting services available across all networks to meet the need to work anytime and anywhere, thereby enabling employees to work during the quarantine period. Smart education The Company launched the “National Primary and Secondary School Network Cloud Platform” in cooperation with the Ministry of Education to meet the need of 190 million primary and secondary school students nationwide to study at home and ensure that schooling continued while schools stayed closed. Utilizing its strengths in information and content distribution, the Company facilitated differentiated online education in different places by providing three modes including multi-screen interaction, big-class live broadcast and small-class interaction as well as various forms such as on-demand videos and live broadcast. As of March 5, 2020, the Company has started 690,000 online classes, covering a total participation of 387 million person-times.Meanwhile, the Company actively responded to the needs of students in remote areas for internet connection to study online by setting up base stations and broadband equipment. Online entertainment The Company offered users services such as MIGU video, Mobile Box and MIGU Reading to allow them to embark on highquality spiritual journeys without leaving home. Smart epidemic prevention and control The Company launched a smart epidemic prevention and control platform in provinces including Zhejiang, Henan, Shanxi, Fujian and Guangdong, providing enterprises with functions such as epidemic prevention inspection, visitor registration, employee health tracking and employee daily health check; and offered products like “And-Easy Report” and “Easy Epidemic Statistics”, satisfying epidemic prevention and control needs such as data collection, counting and analysis. Sale of agricultural products The Company used the China Mobile 12582 Agricultural Information Network to support the sale of agricultural products and help rural population secure employment by collecting and distributing information on unsold agricultural products and employment opportunities through channels such as free text messaging service, video ringback tones and the 12582 service hotline. Apart from that, we also launched the “Warm Spring” initiative to help our 500,000 channel partners resume work and reduce loss by offering special assistance, ensuring channel availability and empowering innovation, etc. 11 01 Building Digital Infrastructure Bolstering Connectivity Foundation Acting on the strategy of building a world-class enterprise, China Mobile is committed to developing high-speed, safe, ubiquitous and smart infrastructure of the highest standard and continuing to improve network quality so as to bolster the connectivity foundation of a smart society. The Company fully implemented the “Double GB Plan” by intensifying the construction of cloud computing infrastructure, accelerating the development of network capacity and the construction of novel information infrastructure, converging different infrastructure into next-generation information and communications technologies, and driving the effective transmission and integration of all kinds of information in the digital world. GB 5G Mobile Network GB Fiber Broadband Network Built over 50,000 5G base stations and offer 5G commercial Commenced building the GB broadband network, services in 50 cities; to deliver 5G network coverage in all equipping around 80% of the facilities in urban areas with urban areas at the prefecture/city level or above by 2020. the capabilities for the rapid expansion of GB broadband business. We continued to narrow the digital divide in 2019, providing broadband access to 43,000 administrative villages through the Telecommunications Universal Service Project that had cumulatively finished installing wireline broadband in 38,000 administrative villages and 4G network in 4,564 administrative villages; and launched special projects on the daily maintenance of rural networks and the guarantee of normal network functioning for users to enjoy the same networks and same speed in rural and urban areas. Taking Roots in Southern Tip of China to Make Sansha More Digitally Advanced Sansha City is the southernmost prefecture-level city in China. It 2019 saw us actively push forward 5G construction in Sansha administers Xisha, Zhongsha, Nansha Islands and their territorial City as the Company built 5G base stations in Xisha and Nanwaters. Despite its strategically important location, Sansha expesha. We then introduced information-based applications that riences harsh natural conditions, leading to difficulty in network took advantage of the high speed and low latency of 5G netconstruction and scarcity of telecommunications supplies. Overworks such as remote medical services and HD videos. By doing coming the challenges in transportation, construction and other so, we provided local island residents with customized services, aspects, China Mobile has managed to provide residents on the laying a solid foundation for the development of a smart Sanislands with the same high-quality telecommunications network sha. enjoyed by mainland residents by switching on 2G and 4G services over the years. Those efforts have helped put the Nansha territorial waters on the “information fast lane”. Launching 5G network along the Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Putting up fiber optic cables across the Dulongjiang River in Nujiang, Express Rail Link on November 20, 2019 12 Yunnan Enabling Digital Access for Relocated Families in Chaya County To deliver the “TV in Every Village” project to relocated families in Chaya County of Changdu City, Xizang, China Mobile set up the “Thousand Households Action” team and formulated the Home Broadband Program Plan and the Network Design, Survey and Pre-coverage Plan for Poverty-alleviation Relocation Sites in Chaya. We deployed construction supplies in advance and appointed staff to take care of user-side setting-out, all in an effort to guarantee the quality of the project. As of the end of 2019, the ”Thousand Households Action” initiative had finished pre-coverage of home broadband in 1,761 relocated households, providing them with access to convenient and stable broadband services. Supporting Emergency Communication 2019 has been a highly challenging year loaded with heavy support tasks. China Mobile further expanded the scope of our emergency communication management and developed an agile and highly efficient emergency communication support system, attaining the goal of ”zero major network failure, zero major network security incident, and zero major complaint from customers”. Emergency Plan Innovative Approach D e v i s e d a c o m p re h e n s i v e Conducted management and emergency plan fully covering maintenance of emergency the customer, home, business plans, drills, resources, personand new markets. nel and events through emergency management platforms. Building Digital Infrastructure Equipment Upgrade Personnel Deployment Deployed high-altitude drone Held emergency contest for base stations to enable fast five consecutive years and orlow-altitude communication ganized rehearsals and drills in coverage and to meet the greater administrative area, thus capacity needs and public comcontinuously enhancing quick munication coverage needs in response and reporting abilities. times of extreme disasters. Communication Support for a Series of Events for China’s 70th Anniversary October 1, 2019 marked the 70th anniversary of the People’s During the support time, we dispatched a support team of Republic of China. To provide communication support for the almost 2,000 members who worked around the clock to comcelebration events, China Mobile had kicked off relevant netplete all support tasks with high quality. work planning and construction at the beginning of the year. We increased the capacity of nearly 600 base stations, 100 transmission nodes as well as content and Internet TV systems, and built 43 new base stations. We developed the “One Emergency Plan at One Place” and “One Emergency Plan at One Site” measures in key support areas to ensure the smooth running of networks in the Tian’anmen area. We deployed five emergency vehicles and temporary base stations such as lightstand base stations and small emergency stations in the core viewing areas in Tian’anmen. We increased our network capacity to 3.5 times and, for the first time in the world, realized 2G/4G/5G full-spectrum, fully compatible network capacity support in open areas with the highest unit density. Based on Communication support service commando for China’s 70th all those pioneering and original technologies, we maximized anniversary celebration events the network capacity and provided reliable network services for China Mobile users who spectated at Tian’anmen Square on the National Day. 13 Developing New Disaster Relief Models Using New Technologies China Mobile actively applies new technologies to innovate emergency communication support measures in light of the actual conditions of different regions. The tectonically complex Sichuan Province located in southwestern China has one of the country’s highest frequencies of geological disasters. The Company developed a new disaster relief management model accordingly, prioritizing the protection of homes and people’s safety in its emergency support efforts. Strong Support Team Complete Emergency Plan Advanced Technologies Formed a disaster relief command Before disaster: Intensify drills Developed the first earthquake early center comprising provincial, and related education warning system together with Sichuan city-level and county-level During disaster: Activate Earthquake Administration leaders, taking charge remotely communication “lifelines” and Used drones for disaster relief or on-site in disaster relief deliver the swiftest relief efforts efforts Provided emergency medical support After disaster: Provide affected for patients through China’s first 5G Employees stepped forward to people with life supplies and emergency medical system, with the 5G be volunteers, amplifying the help them rebuild homes ambulance that was jointly developed relief efforts by our Sichuan subsidiary, Chengdu Industry Research Institute and Sichuan Provincial People’s Hospital Under this management model, the Company dispatched personnel and supplies quickly in response to the fire in Muli County of Liangshan in 2019, becoming the first telecom operator to repair networks and reactivate services in the affected area. We dispatched nine drones including a high-altitude drone base station, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and firefighting drones. With a coverage of around 30 square kilometers, the high-altitude drone base station provided nearly 1,000 on-site rescuers with allround communication services; the UAVs and firefighting drones offered data support for delivering accurate rescue directions and effective rescue efforts. Our well-developed management model continued to allow us to provide affected people in ensuing natural disasters with timely communication support, such as the storm and mudslide in Wenchuan and earthquake in Changning, Yibin. High-altitude drone base station put to use during Muli forest fire Rescue personnel generating electricity for communication equipment after Changning earthquake 14 Communication support at the 14th Guizhou Tourism Development Conference Communication support during Typhoon Lekima 02 Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem Deepening Open Cooperation Thanks to the help of industry partners, China Mobile has developed into the world’s largest telecom operator in terms of network scale and customer base in the past 20 years. In response to the vast opportunities made possible by 5G, we have continuously optimized our strategic cooperation plans and enriched the fruits of our partnerships, thereby laying a solid foundation for the use of 5G technology to propel economic and social development. International Government Large Universities Telecom Agencies Enterprises and Colleges Operators We have signed strategic Focusing on the two directions Since we entered into a straThrough strategic partnerships partnership agreements with of “empowerment platform” tegic cooperation framework with renowned universities such many provincial local governand “vertical applications”, agreement with NTT DOCOas Tsinghua University, Sichuan Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem ments, national departments, we have entered into strategic MO of Japan and KT of South University and Nanjing Univerkey cities and national-level partnerships with many enterKorea in 2011, a cooperation sity, we have been actively and new areas. We have impleprises in the six key areas of 5G, organization mechanism indeeply engaged in the R&D of mented nearly 100 key coopIoT, big data, customer market, volving top management of all next-generation information eration projects in areas such smart home and vertical industhree parties has been estabtechnologies, commercialization as regional development, tries. The partnerships have lished. Over 190 cooperative of scientific research findings, new types of infrastructure, produced sound cooperation projects have been conducted construction of scientific resmart society, digital services value in various aspects such in key areas such as 5G and insearch platforms, joint talent and 5G innovation, effectively as leveraging advantageous ternational roaming, boosting cultivation and other areas, catalyzing the transformation resources, making up for lack the development of the indusfacilitating the coordinated and upgrade of local econoof key capabilities, and leading try globally. innovation efforts among commies. industry ecosystems. panies, universities, research institutes and the market. We stay open and embrace cooperation. We strive to work closely with industry chain partners from around the world to carry out indepth implementation of ecological cooperation plans. Every Product cooperation – open up the largest 5G product market Cooperation is Brand cooperation – create the largest customer privilege cooperation platform Possible Everything Share 600,000 physical channels and create the largest ecological product direct-sales system can be Shared Share more than 1 billion customers and develop platform economy Optimize cooperation mechanism and develop specialized subsidiaries into the driver and builder of ecological cooperation Everything Embrace greater openness and deliver better services to partners through the all-network can be concentrated matching mechanism and procedure Customized Provide partners with business models of billing by the number of connections, rate or usage to accommodate their different needs for monetization Implement the 5G Leadership Plan, accelerating the scale-up of 5G customers, services and devices Everything is Done for Implement the Double 10-billion Plan, including investing RMB10 billion to introduce ecological customer privileges, household smart devices, and content for large screens, and sharing RMB10 the Benefit of billion of new values with partners in the fields of mobile cloud, DICT integration and application, and Customers industry intelligent hardware 15 Promoting Technological Innovation Deeply implementing the innovation-driven development strategy, China Mobile convened the second Technology Innovation Conference-cum-China Mobile Science and Technology Association Inauguration Ceremony in 2019, further expanding innovation plans, enriching innovation models and boosting innovation capabilities, thereby constantly fueling the Company’s digital transformation. The Company has won a multitude of national awards for technological advancement, and our standardized work places us among the world’s top rank. In terms of patent capabilities, we are becoming stronger and have cultivated a number of influential technology industry leaders. Putting together the list of breakthroughs in core techFounding Science and Technology Association: The assonologies in key fields: We have clarified key technologies ciation has over 70,000 registered members and has held and paths based on the R&D capabilities map, and worked a series of brand events such as science and technology with upstream and downstream industry chain partners to publicity campaigns, academic forums and thesis collection step up resolving ”bottleneck” problems. to spur a stronger cultural atmosphere of cultivation. Establishing an application-oriented basic research system: Refining talent support mechanism for core technological Focusing on seven directions, namely new mobile communibreakthroughs in key fields: We hold company-level “Chief cation, new basic network, next-generation information techScientists” and “Chief Experts” elections based on the Comnology, next-generation AI, new types of information processpany’s technical expert system to build a high-caliber team of ing, future safety intelligence and new energy materials, and talents. with the localization of core chips, devices and basic software Building up a pool of core talents: We match applica(operating system), we intensify pioneering technological intion-oriented basic research with R&D resources, and novations with collaboration among companies, universities, build stronger connections with and continue to introduce research institutes and the market. high-caliber talents and experts from around the world, in Giving out technological awards: We give out on-theorder to build the core capabilities required by key areas in job innovation awards to stimulate the innovative vitality the future. of frontline staff, and commercialization awards to boost innovation effectiveness. Achievements of China Mobile Scientific and Technological Innovations Capacity Building Standardization Leadership 11,000 full-time R&D employees 30+ leadership positions in key international standard organizations 6 national labs No.1 among all telecom operators in terms of the number of proposals regarding 5G network 45,000 person-times of technological awards No.1 among all telecom operators in terms of the covered number of 3GPP standardization project initiations Patent Application International Influence 19,000+ patent applications cumulatively, with Headed the establishment of the world-leading open source networking project ONAP and contributed 2,000+ being 5G related 470,000+ lines of codes, ranking second in Provided patent licensing for 60+ overseas companies, the world including companies from Japan, the US and European countries Initiated the GTI (Global TD-LTE Initiative); being the Ranked among the top telecom operators in 1st China-led international cooperation platform in the terms of patent applications numbers telecom sector 16 Cultivating Innovation Ecosystem and Distinctive Entrepreneurship and Innovation In keeping with the national strategic planning of “mass innovation and entrepreneurship”, China Mobile continued building the national-level Entrepreneurship and Innovation Demonstration Bases as we worked towards the goal of constructing an “And-Innovation Ecosystem”. We strive to fully unleash the internal potential in innovation of all our employees and actively explore the Entrepreneurship and Innovation model where large enterprises can engage smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), resources are shared, and integrated development is enabled, in order to gradually foster an industry ecosystem that thrives on cooperation and all-win. Diversified platforms for innovation and entrepreneurship Online: On the basis of the “R&D Cloud” platform, we have introduced development tools and resources suitable for innovation teams to meet the incubation management and resource needs for Entrepreneurship and Innovation. Offline: We have set up nine “And-Creation” Spaces in such professional fields as digital home, smart city, IoT and digital content to provide a full suite of integrated incubation and cooperation services. Over 40 projects have been incubated in our “And-Creation” Spaces. We have built 25 5G open labs providing 5G-oriented innovation R&D and test services. Through cooperation with universities and leading enterprises, we are dedicated to setting up a hundred joint labs with universities, a hundred industry demonstration bases and a hundred joint labs with enterprises as carriers of innovation. Well-established procedures and mechanisms We have established the “crowd innovation, crowd sourcing, crowd funding and crowd evaluation” innovation model, constructed the “entry, incubation, exit and commercialization” end-to-end channel. We have established crowd sourcing models like “major propositions”, “minor propositions” and “promotional propositions”, and put in place a reward system to mobilize the collective wisdom of different units to solve practical challenges in operations. We have established the off-the-job incubation and shared benefits and risks models and mechanisms such as fault-tolerant incubation, personnel flow and intellectual property rights management to integrate various aspects of the incubation process and safeguard the rights and interests of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation members. Leading Innovative Digital Ecosystem We have established a “unit, cross-unit and multi-unit” multi-channel commercialization mechanism that is convenient and highly efficient and a quantitative evaluation system that assesses the comprehensive value of research findings, guaranteeing maximum commercialization effectiveness with just and objective evaluation of incubation results. Rich competitions and events Internally: We have held the Self-development Contest for five consecutive years that covers all our lines of business, with a total of 15,000 employees participating, embedding all-involved innovation throughout our corporate culture. Externally: We have held the China Mobile Hackathon for four consecutive years. Our contests covered eight major themes in 2019, and we compiled the 2,817 innovation projects submitted into the Outstanding Hackathon Projects List and had them pilot-run across all network. In 2019, China Mobile Entrepreneurship and Innovation demonstration bases were included in the 100 National Best Cases of Entrepreneurship and Innovation Demonstration Bases and won the first prize for corporate management modernization of the telecom industry. With the advent of 5G, we have launched an ecology cooperation plan for deepening Entrepreneurship and Innovation – the Star Plan. We will bring together multiple stakeholders along the industry chain, including upstream and downstream companies, innovation capital, incubators, universities and scientific research institutes, and empower our internal innovation teams, SMEs and innovators in society to boost the rapid growth of the innovation teams and the Company. Progressively, we will build up a star cooperation ecosystem that accommodates full-range service scenarios with booming and varied industry applications and integrated industry innovations. “Regardless of which company it is or which geographical region it belongs to, innovation can only bear fruits and create value when applied to address real problems. That’s also what makes our work meaningful.” —— Gold Medal Project “I-link – Smart-link Sensing” Team at the 2019 Self-development Contest 2019 Self-development Contest 2019 China Mobile Hackathon 17 03 Empowering Construction of a Smart Society Serving the General Public In step with users’ changing information consumption needs, China Mobile has been promoting its distinctive 5G applications with a view to engaging users in a ”novel, immersive entertainment experience” and facilitating an upgraded information consumption experience. Delivered the initial application of 4K ultra HD live broadcasting at a scale of hundreds of million users, New Ways to Watch with over 30 pioneering applications in the world. Pioneered full-screen video CRBT (Coloring Ring Back Tones) integrating watching, listening and touch新听法 Ways to Listen ing and provided novel audio/visual services for the four ecosystems of “short videos, media communiNew cation, industry and commercial advertising” by enabling functions such as all HD, all size, all interactive, and CRBT plus vibration. Initiated the China Cloud Gaming Association and launched the East Wind Developers Plan, thus delivNew Ways to Play ering a more engaging and convenient gaming experience based on such features of carrier-grade cloud gaming platforms as “ultra HD, no latency, running on cloud, and click and play”. Launched a series of innovative application scenarios such as VR same-screen interaction and photos with New Ways to Shoot celebrities using 5G and AR technologies, thus providing a novel short video experience in the 5G era. New Ways to Use Implemented full-scale upgrade of basic telecom services such as phone number, SMS and cloud service. In terms of products, the Company has introduced our propriAward 2019” presented by the Communications World . The 5G etary innovative 5G commercial products – the 5G Smart Hub smart parking solution developed on the basis of our 5G smart “Pioneer No.1” and the 5G cellphone “Pioneer X1”. Both are devices won the “Best 5G Commercial Solution Award 2019” examples of our exploration in the new application of 5G on presented by the Communications World All-media . devices. The 5G Smart Hub “Pioneer No.1” won the “2019 Red In terms of product benefits, the Company provides 5G users Dot Design Award” of Germany, the “5G Device Innovation with a rich selection of benefits including Internet, brands, busiLeadership Award” presented by the People’s Posts and Telecomness and memberships that cover videos, reading, travel, and munications News (PPTN) , and the “Best 5G Commercial Solution discounts on 5G devices and on international roaming. 5G HD Video CRBT (Coloring Ring Back Tones) We have launched 5G HD video CRBT products to provide users with a new window to showcase their personalities. Users of this product can select featured content from the China Mobile short video library or custom-make a video CRBT with their own videos. When a call comes in, the caller can watch this personalized short video and like or share it in real time, making the wait more engaging and fun. As of the end of 2019, 5G HD video CRBT had been officially put to commercial use in 29 provinces, played over 1.2 billion times per month. 5G Live Broadcasting In 2019, MIGU performed multiple 5G+4K ultra HD live broadcasts and 41 ”industry/global-first” 5G+4K+VR+AR live broadcasts. MIGU also launched the first cafe with 5G coverage in the world. Organizing the ”Sing for the New Era, My Ode to Motherland with 5G” Weibo 5G video live stream event in Hubei 18 Integrating into Various Sectors and Industries China Mobile works with outstanding partners of the various industries to tap personalized long-tail needs and develop 5G applications in key sectors to facilitate their digitization. 5G smart 5G smart finance 5G smart healthcare media 5G smart 5G smart transportation campus 5G high-altitude 5G HD 5G smart energy Internet of Flying industry video 5G drones 5G smart park Things 5G cloud 5G smart city gaming 5G industrial 5G smart Internet agriculture Scan the QR code to watch VR demonstration of 5G applications Empowering Construction of a Smart Society China Mobile’s Mobile Authentication, the Facilitator for Industry Digitization China Mobile’s Mobile Authentication supports one-click regand boosting the rapid development of video, e-commerce, istration and login and is an optimization and upgrade from online office and other fields. traditional identity authentication methods such as ”account + Additionally, using the Super SIM security encryption chip password” and ”mobile phone number + SMS verification as a digital credential carrier, we have launched a series of code”. Based on our unique data network authentication innovative products such as SIM authentication, SIM card and data capabilities as a telecom operator, we provide messaging, SIMeID, SIM signature, SIM all-in-one card and companies with a comprehensive one-stop solution for user SIM car key, which enable authentication on a number of account use and data management, thus turning mobile security levels and Near Field Communication (NFC) services phone numbers from a communication industry-specific acin the 5G era. As of the end of December 2019, more than count system into a multiple-industry account system serving 670,000 users had activated the Super SIM feature. communication, Internet, IoT, banking and other industries Providing Accessible High-quality Networks to Help Build Orderly Urban Villages As a phenomenon of rapid urbanization, urban villages are inspection and removal of unqualified signal amplifiers, opdensely populated with high mobility but are weak in network timization of signal layout, and construction of new base infrastructure construction. To help improve the network qualstations. After taking down 212 unqualified signal amplifiers ity in Wanxiu Village in Nanning City of Guangxi, China Moand building over 700 new communication spots, we raised bile summarized scenarios reflecting the local conditions and the 4G coverage in pilot urban villages to 98%, benefiting characteristics, and set up a “matrix + module” joint project over 600,000 users and providing a foundation for guaranteam accordingly. We effectively improved the user experience teeing the safety and stability of the urban villages. with methods such as education and publicity on network, Assisting in Automated Mine Management In 2019, our Neimenggu subsidiary worked with business ensuring personnel safety. A remote intelligent dispatch and partners and launched the “5G Smart Mining” project in monitoring platform and a vehicle-vehicle, vehicle-network Baotou. We transformed vehicles into unmanned vehiand vehicle-ground communication system have also been cles and formed an autonomous driving work cluster for built, enabling automated management of mine production transportation in the open-air iron, mineral, ore and rough and operations. As of the end of 2019, we had completed stone mine, realizing functions like remote vehicle control, transforming 4 vehicles into unmanned vehicles. We estiintegrated vehicle positioning, precise parking and autonomate over RMB9 million to be saved in fuel consumption mous obstacle avoidance. This has effectively improved the annually and the production efficiency to increase by 10% efficiency of mining vehicles in special environments and when we finish the transformation of all 17 vehicles. minimized the number of workers at the project sites, thus 19 Supporting the World’s First 5G Remote Surgery at Beijing 301 Hospital In March 2019, we assisted the Beijing 301 Hospital to perform the world’s first 5G-based remote surgery the “brain pacemaker” implantation surgery for a Parkinson’s patient. The features of 5G networks can effectively guarantee the stability, reliability and safety of surgeries and always allow experts to monitor the surgical process and patients’ status. In 2019, the project won the Asia Mobile Awards (AMO) “Award for Best Support for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Mobile Innovation” presented by the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA). As the application of 5G networks continuously expands in the medical field, the Company also supported the nation’s first 5G remote fundus laser surgery, 5G remote orthopedic surgery, 5G teleconsultation, 5G remote ultrasound and other projects, effectively improving the quality of medical services and management. “I work in rotation between Beijing and Hainan. This surgery took place during my rotation in Hainan. A Parkinson’s patient in Beijing needed surgery, but his condition did not allow him to fly to Hainan. With the support of China Mobile’s 5G network, a remote surgery between Hainan and Beijing was performed for the first time. Free from 4G problems such as video lagging and significant remote-control delays, the surgery was performed in near real time and I hardly felt that the patient was actually 3,000 kilometers away. Through remote surgeries, high-quality and high-level experts in higher-level hospitals will be able to perform surgeries directly on patients in remote and backward areas, making possible surgeries that were once too challenging to deliver at the grassroots level.” —— Ling Zhipei, Director of Neurosurgery, First Medical Center and Hainan Hospital of Beijing 301 Hospital Empowering the Whole Agricultural Industry Chain China Mobile has built the smart “And-Agriculture” product suite that helps reduce agricultural production costs and improve production efficiency, product quality and the ecological environment, thus contributing to the implementation of the Rural Vitalization strategy. The 5G precision greenhouse tomato planting solution is based on the key capabilities of agricultural Precision AI and 5G advantages. Drawing on analysis by the AI brain, it performs intelligent control over the Planting planting conditions, water and fertilizer to improve the quality and efficiency of tomato production. Drawing on the advantages of 5G, the intelligent pig farming platform overcomes the problems of Precision deploying GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) servers in farms, such as high cost and poor maintainabilFarming ity, and enables functions like pig weight measurement, backfat measurement, body temperature measurement and sow lactation monitoring based on 5G capabilities and AI platforms. The circular aquaculture system under the control of 5G networks detects and analyzes the dissolved oxygen, temperature, pH value and other parameters of the water and performs remote intelligent Smart control over water injection, aeration, sewage and pump bacteria. A smart, convenient, efficient and Aquaculture safe management model has been created through the establishment of a scientific and technological aquaculture log. Smart The automated agricultural machinery control system is based on 5G and can work around the clock. Agricultural It accurately plans the work route to ensure high-precision operations of the agricultural machinery Machinery at all times, thus improving the efficiency and increasing the income generated by the machinery. 20 Making Education Smarter and More Scenario-based and Accessible China Mobile has developed comprehensive 5G-based smart campus solutions that focus on three core issues, namely better teaching, quality resources sharing and smart campus management. 5G smart classes with dual teachers 5G cloud AR immersive and interactive learning We have helped Shenzhen Longgang Science Utilizing the Cloud XR (Extended Reality) educational and Technology City Foreign Languages School platform, we have helped the China Science and Technology launch 5G remote synchronous classes, where Museum build a virtual science and technology pavilion real-time class footage is transmitted between that breaks the constraints of time and space, providing Shenzhen and Guizhou to allow classes to be more visitors and schools with richer and more convenient shared between two locations. educational resources and services. 5G remote holographic teaching 5G safe campus We set up a holographic teaching facility at We have built the “And-Recognition” smart reception system Beijing Normal University. It allows teachers that enables college freshmen to complete all registration proceto give lectures in a green screen studio and dures based on face recognition using only their ID cards. Besides, transmits life-size footage of the teachers to the 5G Safe Campus solution offers a variety of customization other places through 5G networks. functions tailored for real-life campus scenarios, such as family video calls, face recognition in exams, see-through kitchens, and face-recognition authentication for parents when picking up their children from school, greatly improving safety. 5G Classroom for Future Immersive interactive learning with 5G Cloud and AR Empowering Construction of a Smart Society Providing Technological Solutions to Livelihood Supervision Our Hunan subsidiary was actively involved in assisting Hunan Province to build “Internet + Supervision” platform, empowering livelihood supervision with technology. External public portals Internal supervision portals Breaking information barriers and advancing connectivity, the platform supports We have set up a web portal that consolvisits on computers, WeChat subscription accounts, mobile applications idates a variety of functions, such as data (apps) and query machines. With one click, people can access a variety of input, complaint handling, data collision information, such as information on the remittance of their subsidies, targeted analysis, performance evaluation and platpoverty alleviation policies and special grants as well as spending status of form management, allowing the platform village-level organizations, and can file complaints or whistleblowing reports. to operates smoothly, efficiently and safely. As of the end of 2019, the “Internet + Supervision” in Hunan had enabled the identification of over 1.7 million problematic data entries, and displayed the account information of 208 livelihood subsidies and over 6 million pieces of transaction information of villages. The total views of the provincial, city-level and county-level web portals and the WeChat subscription account exceeded 1.2 billion person-times, and the WeChat subscription account attracted 3.37 million followers. The platform had become an important channel for people to carry out livelihood supervision. We upgraded the platform in 2019, intensifying efforts in areas like big data, cloud computing, standard system, and safety operations and maintenance. The major related project “Hunan Province Unified Financial Software for Village Finance” is the first in China to enable unified accounting and centralized supervision of village-level finance across the province. 21 04 Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption Providing Enjoyable Services China Mobile firmly adopts the “Customer-centered and Service-oriented” approach and has built a comprehensive, full-process and allhands service system. We have set up the China Mobile Service Leadership Project Steering Group headed by main company leaders to improve our customer service on all fronts, enhance the building of a service-oriented culture, and strengthen the formulation, application and management of regulations1 in areas like customer rights protection, thereby delivering enjoyable customer services. Carried out the “Leading Projects” for customer satisfaction, comprehensively improving customer perception. Ran the 10080 service quality supervision hotline to upgrade the centralized handling, supervision and management of complaints. Improving Utilized new tools such as voice robot, text robot, intelligent quality inspection and intelligent strategy Customer center to improve service efficiency. Perception Implemented a series of service measures, including an upgraded version of the 0000 value-added service subscription inquiry and unsubscription and a more transparent complaint handling process. Built a comprehensive customer perception evaluation system to acquire customer perception in real time; the system has reached over 620 million person-times of customers in total. Our 4G customer satisfaction rate was 78.37% in 2019, maintaining a leading position. Held a series of “Enjoyable Services 365” customer opinion collection activities, of which the “Enjoyable Services 365 – Network” activity attracted the participation of 1,163,000 customers. Held General Manager Customer Reception Day activities which were attended by over 140,000 Building customers, and handled nearly 130,000 inquiries and complaints over the year. a ServiceEstablished a two-tier User (Supervision) Committee, cumulatively recruited more than 2,000 users as Oriented committee members, and established diversified customer communication channels. Culture Conducted activities like service star and star team selection and service management best practice selection to encourage quality service demonstration and promotion. Promoted the “Voice of Customers” project, and delivered more effective problem-solving and better service management by having managers at all levels listen to customer complaint recordings. Introduced measures such as “free data on checking user seniority” and “quick installation and quick Giving Back repair with free data for overtime”. to Customers Upgraded the three brands of GoTone, M-Zone and Easyown and launched a series of services and benefits around users’ lives. Optimized customer bills and regulated key contact services such as data inquiry display, customer service numbers and 5G business service reminders. Protecting Comprehensively strengthened regulations on public notifications of tariffs of available services, Customer simplified the tariff structure, and promoted transparent consumption. Rights and Interests Carried out the “Sunshine Action” for the protection of customer rights and interests, continued to standardize operations like outbound marketing and deduction reminders, and formulated management measures on billing security and transparent consumption to fully protect customers’ right of choice. 1: The Company has formulated the following documents in 2019 for the protection of customer rights and interests: the China Mobile Penalty Measures for Violation of Customer Rights and Interests (Trial) , the Notice on Further Strengthening the Service Guarantee of Customers’ Independent Right of Choice , the China Mobile Data Inquiry and Display Service Specifications , the China Mobile Individual Customer Billing Service Specifications V3.0 , the 5G Business Service Reminder Standards , the China Mobile Customer Service Numbers Management Measures , the Notice on Delimiting “Three Red Lines” for the Scope of Market Operations and Management, etc. 22 Facilitating Worry-free Sails and Bringing Seafarers Closer to Families China has the most seafarers of all countries and is the world’s largest exporter of seafarer services. The seafarers spend more than half of the year on the sea, where there is no signal, making it difficult for them to communicate with their families. To help seafarers meet their particular communication needs, our Beijing subsidiary and China Mobile International jointly launched the Seafarer Card, providing seafarers with the exclusive 1720711 number range and exclusive tariff benefits which, together with the Family Network, allow seafarers to enjoy free domestic calls with friends and relatives. Seafarers can also enjoy the benefits such as half-price data plans, free phone services and number hosting by logging in to the JegoTrip App using a Seafarer Card number. In the meantime, a communication group for Seafarer Card users has been set up with customer service available 24/7. The Seafarer Card brings seafarers closer to their families, realizing true worry-free sails with a card number. The card has been well received among our seafarer users. China COSCO Shipping Corporation currently provides the Seafarer Card for its seafarer employees as a basic communication welfare. ”The Voice of Customers” platform won the ”Quality Service Project” award in the third National Quality Service Competition. The ”Construction of IoT Service Quality Standard System Based on Customer Perception” project was recognized as a Highest-level Technology Achievement in the 4th National Quality Innovation Contest. Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption ”5G Pioneer Cup” service skills competition in Shandong Building a business environment with ethnic characteristics in Jilin Promoting Speed Upgrade and Tariff Reduction China Mobile actively promotes speed upgrade and tariff reduction to effectively improve people’s sense of gain and well-being. Individual Customers SME Customers Increased the value of data plans and basic plans, offered Carried out the inclusive dedicated Internet connection camlarge-volume traffic plans, and continuously reduced tariffs paign, 100M enterprise broadband promotion campaign, charged when usage exceeding the plan. GB enterprise broadband promotion campaign, etc. Handset data tariff decreased by 47% in 2019 from 2018. The broadband and dedicated connection tariffs for SMEs decreased by 39% and 25% respectively compared with 2018. Over the past five years since the Company began implementing speed upgrade and tariff reduction, we have implemented various tariff reductions measures, benefiting more than one billion users and four million enterprises, with data tariff dropping by more than 90% cumulatively. Moreover, in November 2019, we officially launched the “Mobile Number Portability” policy, allowing users to switch to another telecom operator without changing their numbers. We issued the Notice on Regulating Same-number Transfer between Operators, ensuring orderly progress in strict compliance with requirements of the MIIT. 23 Maintaining Network and Information Security China Mobile attaches great importance to network security. Under the united leadership of the Company’s Network Security Leadership Group, we have set up network security leadership groups headed by the top leader of each of our 31 provincial subsidiaries and our specialized subsidiaries and directly affiliated units while prioritizing network security efforts. We actively respond to the risks brought about by the development of 5G and AICDE services and have produced security white papers on topics like AI, IoT and 5G to improve the overall level of security. Campaigns Talent Cultivation ”Shield Building” Network security expert team ”Team Mountain Tai” Key Information Infrastructure Protection Campaign ”Discerning Eye” Security training such as Network Data Security Enhancement Campaign ”Talent Honing Plan” and ”5G – Shield Building” 5G Network Security Defense System construction Certification of Certified Information Security Professional and standards and norms formulation1 1: The Company formulated the following 5G network security specifications during 2019: the 5G Telecom Network Security Technical Requirements, the 5G Network Security Risk Assessment Specifications, the 5G Network Equipment Security Configuration Specifications, the 5G Security Risk Prevention and Control Work Guide, the 5G Network and Service Security Benchmark Evaluation Specification, the 5G New Technology and New Service Security Evaluation Reference Index, etc. For possible network security emergencies, the Company has formulated the China Mobile Network Security Emergency Response Plan (V1.0) . It divides emergency responses to cyber security incidents into four levels, namely Critical (Level I), Significant (Level II), Moderate (Level III) and General (Level IV), with reference to “Information Security Technology – Guidelines for the Category and Classification of Information Security Incidents” (GB/Z20986-2007) to comprehensively improve the ability to respond to cyber security incidents. Our measures to deal with network security incidents include emergency bandwidth expansion, virus detection and the use of backup data. The Company makes every effort to protect the security and reliability of customers’ personal information according to laws and regulations. In the event of a major customer information breach, the Company would promptly inform the affected customers and propose measures to mitigate the damage. The Company had zero major customer information leakage incident recorded in 2019. Published 14 regulations including the China Mobile Customer Information Security Protection Management Regulations and established a normalized customer information protection system. Pioneered the “Vault Mode”, including all high-risk operations on key system platforms that involve sensitive customer information into “Vault Management and Control”. Fuzzified sensitive customer information on customer service system interfaces to prevent customer information leakage. Carried out data security compliance assessments to improve data compliance management and audited all maintenance operations. Strengthened real-time and follow-up inspection and supervision of customer information security incidents. Managing Spam Messages China Mobile makes dedicated efforts to manage all types of spam messages, effectively identifying and blocking spam SMS/MMS, nuisance/scam calls, etc. to help build a clear cyberspace. Released the China Mobile Key Work Plan for Further Preventing and Controlling Telecom Network Fraud to reinforce the security management of mobile phone cards, IoT cards, and new technologies and new services. Preventing Established the ”Group, Key Regions, Provincial Subsidiaries” three-tier technical protection sysCommunication tem to quickly monitor and tackle problematic numbers roaming to key regions. Information Fraud Built the ”Customer Bad Credit Database” to prevent fraudsters from applying for new numbers to enter the network again. Blocked a total of 10.16 million international scam calls and 38.89 million scam messages and sent 2.4 billion free anti-fraud call reminders to 230 million users in 2019. Launched a high-frequency nuisance call protection service ahead of industry peers, cumulatively Tackling blocked 1.2 billion nuisance calls for 7 million users. Nuisance Calls 24 AI Anti-fraud Application ”OneAI Smart Detective” Our Guangdong subsidiary and our online services specialized subsidiary jointly developed the AI anti-fraud application “OneAI Smart Detective” and the whole-process real-name authentication solution, carrying out black card and channel identification at the beginning of registration and in real time, thus effectively reducing the number of nuisance calls. The system also cooperates with law enforcement departments, providing suspected scam numbers and fraud locations for reference to improve the efficiency of crackdown on fraud. At present, the accuracy rate of “OneAI Smart Detective” identification and real-name authentication is 81% and 99.9%, respectively. Emergency Protection System against ”SMS Bomb” If a mobile phone receives a large number of verification code messages within a short period of time for no reason, it is likely that the user has been attacked by a ”SMS Bomb”. In response, we launched the ”SMS Bomb” Emergency Protection System to intercept ”SMS Bombs” in real time. As of the end of 2019, the system had provided protection services for 1.32 million users and intercepted 270 million nuisance ”SMS Bomb” messages. The Company’s Using AI Technology to Manage Cyberspace Spams and Protecting Users’ Legal Rights and Interests won the ”WSIS Prizes 2019 Champion” award presented by the United Nations World Summit on Information Society (WSIS) 2019. Offering ”10086” dedicated customer service seats to elderly Hosting ”Convenience Services Brought into the Community” Ensuring Trusted Digital Consumption customers campaign to offer anti-fraud education in Anhui Strengthening Product Responsibility In 2019, China Mobile made comprehensive progress in the quality management of key products such as individual, home and intelligent hardware. We further improved the product quality evaluation standards and clarified the quantitative evaluation indicator system on product quality. We also optimized the closed-loop management mechanism for problem grading and classification, classifying problems as high, medium and low levels according to the scope of influence and probability of occurrence, thereby further refining the closed-loop management requirements. For non-conforming products, we implement measures such as upgrade and optimization, or repair, recall, rework and fines, according to the severity of the problems in accordance with our quality guidelines. The Company had zero product recall incident for quality issues throughout the year. We act in strict compliance with the Advertising Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Trademark Law of the People’s Republic of China . We have formulated regulations including the China Mobile Management Measures on Advertising and Publicity, clearly requiring all types of information published for advertising purposes to be true and accurate, forbidding the use of unregulated pictures, terms or texts, and strictly prohibiting the unauthorized use of other people’s portraits, registered trademarks, works, etc., to ensure that our product information and labeling are faithfully communicated and that we engage in transparent and effective communication with our customers. Managing Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) The EMR monitoring of base stations is a key challenge for EMR management. China Mobile took the initiative to communicate with the community and customized an EMR publicity vehicle equipped with a vehicle-mounted dynamic EMR monitoring system and professional testing devices. Professional technicians fully participated in educational tours conducted in various residential communities, towns, rural areas and ethnic minority areas, effectively alleviating or dispelling negative public perceptions of EMR. In 2019, our EMR educational publicity vehicles carried out 120 educational activities in the three provinces of Hubei, Jiangsu and Henan, covering 42 cities and 88 districts and counties. 25 Summary of Our Key Performances Our Achievements in 2019 Officially launched 5G commercial services, implemented the “5G+” plan and the “Double GB Plan”, thereby improving network quality, narrowing the digital divide, and accelerating the construction of a new type of information infrastructure in the 5G era. Built an agile and efficient emergency communication support system, and attained the goal of “zero major network failure, zero major network security incident, and zero major complaint from customers”. Held the second Technology Innovation Conference-cum-China Mobile Science and Technology Association Inauguration Ceremony, deepened the “One System Four Rings + Three Verticals” scientific and technological innovation system, and continuously inspired internal innovative vitality. Carried out strategic cooperation, continuously opened up capabilities, supported the Entrepreneurship and Innovation, and pursued shared development with micro, small and medium enterprises. Undertook in-depth explorations in the customer market and verticals, thereby boosting higher-quality consumption and the transformation and upgrade of different sectors and industries. Adhered to the “Customer-centered and Service-oriented” approach, improved the service system, promoted speed upgrade and tariff reduction, safeguarded information security, practiced compliant marketing, and made every effort to protect customers’ legitimate rights and interests. Our Goals for 2020 and Beyond To expand 5G coverage to all cities at the prefecture level or above, achieve a net addition of 70 million 5G package customers, and strive to realize the commercial use of 5G SA networks at scale by 2020; to release over 100 5G smartphones and over 100 5G devices for industry use; to develop 100 industry-transforming and scalable 5G demonstration applications focusing on 14 key vertical industries. To optimize 5G integrated innovation capability system and continuously augment the eight major innovation capabilities of AI, IoT, cloud computing, big data, edge computing, security, blockchain and location. To deepen open cooperation, bring into play the “multiplier effect” of 5G, and build a 5G ecological community with worldwide industry partners. To promote satellite-aerial-terrestrial integrated emergency communication, cross-domain integration of emergency resources across all networks, and building of emergency management platforms capacity to comprehensively guarantee successful support efforts. To optimize the service system, build a leading service quality control mechanism, and provide customers with smart, convenient and efficient services. To continue to improve the three major capabilities of security situation awareness, security protection and emergency response and strengthen the ability of critical infrastructure in resisting cyber security attacks. Key Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Operation revenue Number of household broadband customers 7,405 7,368 7,459 109 147 172 (RMB100 million) (million) Taxation (RMB100 million) 337 359 353 Number of corporate customers (million) 6.02 7.18 10.28 Number of IoT customers (million) 229 551 884 Connection Scale Number of countries and regions with 172 181 191 4G international roaming services Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Number of countries and regions covered 229 239 247 by our data roaming services Number of total mobile customers (million) 887 925 950 Number of 4G customers (million) 650 713 758 26 Network Capability Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Number of 4G base stations Number of GTI operator 187 241 309 132 134 136 (10,000) members Average 4G network Number of GTI industry 163 176 237 Jointly Creating downloading rate on urban 42.0 42.6 43.3 partners roads (Mbps) International transmission bandwidth (G) 23,750 39,000 70,885 R&D and Innovation Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Network Quality Guarantee Investment in entrepreneurIndicators 2017 2018 2019 ship and innovation support (RMB10,000) 7,955 8,359 8,830 an Inclusive Number of emergency Number of users of Good Life for All 4,476 4,899 6,800 entrepreneurship and 15.4 15.6 16.1 support innovation platform Significant political/ 4,253 4,597 6,658 Number of projects created economic event support from entrepreneurship and 2,535 2,918 3,183 Significant natural disaster innovation events 190 266 124 support Number of teams particSummary of Our Key Performances Significant accident or ipated in innovation and 1,819 1,855 2,817 23 16 16 entrepreneurship events catastrophe support Public health incident Number of patent 0 1 0 2,006 2,222 2,683 关键绩效表 support applications (pieces) Social safety incident Number of newly granted 10 19 2 753 1,040 1,384 support patents (pieces) Number of emergency support vehicles deployed 7,362 8,986 7,931 Customer Rights and Interests Protection (vehicle-times) Number of emergency Indicators 2017 2018 2019 support equipment installed 30,642 36,596 27,755 (set-times) Overall customer satisfaction 79.19 80.86 81.99 in telecom service quality 1 Number of person-times Number of spam messages involved in emergency 201,250 314,427 259,807 128 133 139 report handled (10,000) support (person-times) Number of scam phone 50,700 19,600 10,500 numbers handled Open Cooperation Average number of spam messages handled per >2 > 3.9 >4 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 month (100 million) Average number of Number of enterprises accounts making served by communication >13 >15 >44 2.1 5.5 59.4 illegitimate group voice calls capability open platform handled per month 2 30 Supporting Poverty Alleviation Average authentication Number of anti-fraud SMS 36.4 34.7 24.2 and Public Welfare processes carried out on alerts sent (100 million) the mobile authentication >5 6.67 12.12 platform per day Annual number of target35 ed covert fraud incidents Promoting Coordinated Regional (100 million times) > 370 > 123 > 2,322 identified and successfully Development Number of developers on intervened 3 (10,000) 56,728 99,963 148,642 OneNET Number of enterprises on Notes: 6,500 9,396 11,825 37 Growing Together with Employees OneNET 1. The evaluation of overall customer satisfaction in telecom service Number of connected quality was organized by the MIIT, who also announced the results. The devices on OneNET 3,154.31 7,987.85 16,092.77 total score is 100. (10,000) 2. In 2019, the Company further strengthened the governance of nuisance calls, which resulted in the significantly increased average Number of developers of 13,500 76,300 115,900 number of cases handled each month. Andlink 3. In 2019, the Company added four identification models for scenarios Number of enterprises on of covert communication information fraud, which resulted in the 150 500 1,000 Andlink significant increase in the annual number of cases handled. 27 ”Blue Dream”, Innovating on Education for Poverty Alleviation Sustainability Context Eradicating poverty starts from changing the minds of people. further developed on a sub-program of “Blue Dream”, the MinisPoverty alleviation through education is a root solution to help try of Education-China Mobile Central And Western China Rural the poor. To improve the education conditions of primary and Primary and Secondary School Principal Training Program (“Prinsecondary schools in central and western China, especially in cipal Training”) and have established a unique principal training poverty-stricken areas, and to eliminate the root cause of insystem, thereby creating a new platform for improving the edutergenerational poverty, China Mobile worked together with cation management skills of primary and secondary school princithe Ministry of Education and launched the China Mobile Blue pals from poverty-stricken areas in central and western China. The pursuit of happiness is a common aspiration for Dream Educational Aid Plan (“Blue Dream”) in 2006, focusing on all. Even though we have made significant progress in improving the comprehensive capabilities of rural teachers. We technological development, there are still many issues 2006 Started the model of centralized training of small study groups. arising from unbalanced and inadequate development nowadays. China actively strives to build a community Started providing online support, setting up a dedicated section for Principal Training at the China Education with a shared future for mankind, adheres to the con2008 Administration Training Network of the National Academy of Education Administration, posting program updates cept of inclusive development, implements targeted and allowing exchange of local progress of the program. poverty alleviation policies, coordinated regional deInnovated the Training-in-Teaching model and the ”Shadow Training + Remote Training” model, and set up the velopment strategies and the Belt and Road Initiative, 2009 shadow training schools. and works together with domestic and international 2016 Launched the first ”Seed Principal Online Workshop + Teaching in the Countryside” program. partners to make positive contributions to the implementation of the relevant United Nations Sustainable 2018 Created the ”In-School Training” diagnostic training program. Development Goals. Innovative Training Models for Principals Collaborative Governance as Foundation China Mobile actively explores the infinite possibilities From the “three-stage” training model of “centralized training + The program went beyond the traditional task-based training of using 5G technology to serve society and improve shadow training + back to school practice” that has been made concept. Instead, it has evolved into an effective “five-inthe well-being of people. In the decisive period of part of government policy system by the Ministry of Education, to one” modern collaborative governance system, in which “the building a well-off society in an all-round way, we are the “five-stage” training model of “centralized training + shadow Ministry of Education and China Mobile lead, the program committed to sharing the enabling benefits of 5G and training + online study + back to school training + sent to school office coordinates, the provincial team designs, the training other ICT technologies with more people, and propractice”, the program has been constantly evolving based on base implements, and the county-level team manages”, all viding our ideas and solutions for promoting the allimplementation and evaluation results, creating unique and collaborating to train the principals. Meanwhile, we insisted round development of people and social progress. innovative training models that contribute to the development of on scientific management, studied best practices of similar a high-quality national principal training system for the new era. programs and developed the Principal Training Program Standards , promoting program effectiveness with standardized We initiated the ”active training” concept and established a implementation, supervision and support. platform for team training at county level and provincial level, based on the individual development needs and career goals of Public Participation with Greater Impact the principals and the training needs of the region, to give the principals greater motivation to learn. We made effective use of Poverty alleviation needs the support and participation the online training community platform centered on the ”Seed of society. We called on the public to join our efforts to Principal Online Workshop”, and developed the combo training support education poverty alleviation in the form of matched model of online learning and on-site practice. We also set up a charitable donations. As of the end of 2019, 3.38 million menu-based, independent and open learning platform, where people had participated in MIGU Reading’s Read for Good the principals could customize their class selections based on campaign and raised RMB10 million for the ”Blue Dream”; their individual needs. With over ten years of continuous efforts, and 27 Read for Good events were organized at Joy Reading we have fostered a training culture of ”to learn and train to Cafes, which attracted 62.666 million person-times to become excellent”, motivating the all-around development of participate and raised a total of RMB6 million. the principals. 28 ”I am a veteran of principal training. But it’s very rare to see programs like China Mobile’s ‘Principal Training’ that last for over a decade to help rural principals. And it’s not an easy thing to do! China Mobile’s ‘Principal Training’ provides customized training for rural principals with unwavering love and dedication, benefitting rural principals in Guangxi, especially those from low-income counties. The program allowed the rural principals to feel the sincerity and warmth of charitable support, which is a great boost to their confidence!” —— Li Fuzhuo, Director of ”Principal Training” Guangxi Partner (Nanning Normal University) “‘Principal Training’ allowed me to reexamine myself from a new perspective, and showed me the way to a dense forest of education, where my dreams can flourish. My dream is to work hard to support rural education.” —— Chen Yang, Principal of Dandian Primary School, Tuanfeng County, Huanggang City, Hubei Province ”Blue Dream”, Innovating on Education for Poverty Alleviation “‘Principal Training’ allowed me to better grasp and form my own understanding of education, and develop my own action plan to manage my school. It has lit a shining light for my professional growth and daily practice, so that I can become a better thought leader at my school and move in the right direction.” —— Li Liansheng, Principal of Shangganshan Central Primary School, Shanggao County, Yichun City, Jiangxi Province Since the launch of the “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan, the Corps, and equipped the multimedia classrooms with remote Company has invested nearly RMB180 million and provided learning equipment and “And Education” products. training for over 127,000 rural primary and secondary school In the future, China Mobile will continue to uphold the founding principals from central and western China, directly benefiting aspiration of supporting the development of rural education and over 700 counties. To leverage our advantages and support serving the professional growth of rural primary and secondary education poverty alleviation, we have also built 2,310 China school principals in central and western China, continuously Mobile Libraries and 2,863 multimedia classrooms for schools inject new impetus into the development of education in the in regions in extreme poverty in 23 provinces in central and central and western rural areas, and lay a new foundation for the western China and the Xinjiang Production and Construction fundamental eradication of poverty. ”In-School Diagnostic Training” of the ”Principal Training” program in Sichuan 29 05 Supporting Poverty Alleviation and Public Welfare Contributing to Poverty Eradication 2019 is a crucial year for eradicating poverty in China. China Mobile developed a series of policies, including the China Mobile Poverty Alleviation Priorities in 2019 , the China Mobile Poverty Alleviation Assessment Methods in 2019 , and the 2019 Notification on Specifying Poverty Alleviation Tasks for China Mobile Units , to specify the priorities, implementation requirements and assessment standards for its poverty alleviation work in 2019. During the year, we summarized the experience, studied new trends and requirements in poverty alleviation, and developed the “network + poverty alleviation” model based on the “1 + 3 + X” system, focusing on the network-based poverty alleviation model and implemented poverty alleviation programs in education, health care, livelihood, industry, consumption, etc. with support in terms of organization, funding and talents. In 2019, our parent company was recognized as one of the best performers in the targeted poverty alleviation assessment by the central government, 13 provincial subsidiaries were recognized as provincial-level poverty alleviation models, and 8 provincial subsidiaries received the top-level rating in the provincial poverty alleviation annual assessment. Network + Poverty Alleviation ”1+3+X” System Livelihood Industry Healthcare Consumption Education Network Employment Funding Talents Organization Strengthening Prioritizing Promoting Poverty Organizational Poverty Alleviation Officers Support Alleviation Funds We established a three-tier mechanism, under We have been cooperating with our parent Our parent company gave priority to which “the Group coordinates, provincial subsidcompany, undertaking the poverty alleviation funding poverty programs in areas with iaries manage, and city/prefectural branches and work and providing pair support in the 8 extreme poverty and areas lacking bapoverty alleviation volunteers implement”, and poverty counties of 5 provinces, such as the sic livelihood, education, health care a collaboration mechanism consisting of “task “three regions and three prefectures”, and and housing conditions, and donated allocation and implementation, supervision and covering the poverty alleviation work in 1,767 a total of RMB290 million in 2019 with notification, and assessment and accountability”. counties, townships and villages designated approximately RMB55 million of in-kind Meanwhile, we cooperated with our parent comby local government since 2002; and disdonations; and invested RMB1.1 billion, pany and arranged nine provincial subsidiaries in patched 4,425 employees (2,200 employees totaling RMB1.6 billion cumulatively, in eastern China to support the six targeted counon duty in 2019) working at the front line of the Central Enterprise Poverty Support ties, and mobilized all employees and 1 billion poverty alleviation full time. One of the povIndustry Investment Fund. customers to participate in poverty alleviation. erty alleviation volunteers, Duan Yuping, was recognized as the highest award in poverty alleviation in China, while other 24 received Promoting Poverty provincial-level poverty alleviation awards. Building the Alleviation in Information Different Fields Highway We integrated network poverty alleviWe cooperated with our parent company and provided continuous support to improve ation with efforts in other fields, such telecommunications infrastructure in less-developed areas, having connected 127,000 as education, language, culture, health, townships with voice service and 72,000 villages with wireline broadband connection consumption, industry and employment, and 96% of archived poverty villages now have broadband connection cumulatively; and have achieved positive poverty alleviactively promoted 4G and wireline broadband development in less-developed areas, with ation results. 98% of administrative villages have 4G network coverage; implemented the Phase-4 Telecommunications Universal Service Project and covered 4,564 administrative villages with 4G network; launched the Poverty Alleviation Service Package for archived poverty households, benefiting 9.95 million users; donated house-brand mobile phones to low-income households in Shule and Baisha; and have been donating Tibetan-Mandarin bilingual mobile phones for two years in collaboration with China Internet Development 30 Foundation, benefiting 35,000 low-income Tibetan customers. Major Breakthrough in Targeted Poverty Alleviation Areas There are six targeted poverty alleviation counties for China Mobile, including Huanan and Tangyuan in Heilongjiang province, Akto, Shule and Luofu in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, and Baisha in Hainan Province (“six targeted counties”), among which the four counties in Xinjiang and Hainan are in extreme poverty. In 2019, we continued to cooperate with our parent company to support the poverty alleviation work in the six targeted counties and overfulfilled all targets for the targeted poverty alleviation commitment, including directly funding a total of RMB180 million, facilitating funding of RMB13.73 million, training 6,712 poverty alleviation volunteers and local residents, and purchasing and helping sell over RMB100 million worth of agricultural products from these counties. Among the six targeted counties, Huanan and Tangyuan were officially taken off the list of targeted poverty alleviation counties in May 2019, and Shule and Baisha were in the process of being taken off the list. A total of 78,000 people in the six targeted counties had successfully been removed from the registered poverty population list during the year. Providing Mandarin Training for Ethnic Minorities for a Better Life The lack of Mandarin skills severely limits the capability of ethnic minorities to get rid of poverty and develop their regional economy. To address this challenge, our Yunnan subsidiary developed the “1 + 3” information solution for Mandarin education, consisting of one core app, the “Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation” app, and three support systems in data traffic, marketing promotion and big data, to help more people learn Mandarin and gain access to more employment opportunities. Efficiency: Participated in developing the “Mandarin for Accessibility: Carried out the all-round promotion of Supporting Poverty Alleviation and Public Welfare Poverty Alleviation” app, which included functions such the “Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation” app with the as character learning, daily dialogues, self-learning and support of Yunnan China Mobile stores, social channels other modules covering 1,000 daily phrases and 500 and village service points, and publicized successful high-frequency vocabulary items in the local region. cases and set up Mandarin-speaking model villages to Affordability: Provided customized mobile phones for encourage more people to use the app. poverty alleviation training with preinstalled “Mandarin Measurability: Retrieved app usage data from the big for Poverty Alleviation” app, and sponsored data subsidata platform to support the implementation of the dy and mobile device subsidy. programs in different locations. As of the end of 2019, we had donated 20,000 mobile phones customized with the “Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation” app, and provided free in-app data for 120,000 users. The “Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation” app was used by 148,300 users, contributing to a relatively fast growth of their annual income. In April 2019, our parent company signed the Strategic Cooperation Framework of Promoting Mandarin Education for Poverty Alleviation with the Ministry of Education, the Poverty Alleviation Office of the State Council, the State Language Commission and iFLYTEK in Kunming to promote the Yunnan experience nationwide. ”Now, I can write my own name, read some simple characters, and speak Mandarin. I like the ‘Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation’ app. It is convenient and practical. I can learn Mandarin and Chinese characters anytime and anywhere because of it.” —— Youli, Villager, Guquan Village, Nujiang Lisu Ethnic Minority Autonomous Prefecture Villagers learning how to use the ”Mandarin for Poverty Alleviation” app Customized ”China Mobile Education for Poverty Alleviation” mobile phone 31 Targeted Poverty Alleviation System China Mobile developed the Targeted Poverty Alleviation System, and deployed the system in 92 cities and counties in 14 provinces to construct an ecosystem of targeted poverty alleviation, serving 8,169,000 low-income households and 741,000 poverty alleviation volunteers with its ”one system and one mobile phone”. In 2019, the Targeted Poverty Alleviation System was included in the ”Global Showcases of Poverty Alleviation” at China International Forum With the Targeted Poverty Alleviation System, poverty alleviation volunteers can use on Poverty Alleviation. their phones to scan the QR code outside each low-income household to access the details of the applicable poverty alleviation policies. Promoting Education Equality with the ”Internet + Education for Poverty Alleviation” Model China Mobile has created the ”dual teacher classroom In Sichuan, we have developed the model of “live streaming of solution” to promote the sharing of high-quality teaching courses of famous teachers + management software + intelligent courses and resources among schools and student hardware”. In Gulin County, we have set up 45 virtual lecture households, allowing the less developed areas to improve rooms for teachers and 255 virtual classrooms for students, their teaching quality with not only accessibility but also providing local students with quality traditional Chinese studies, quality resources. Lack of available courses is not a bottleneck music, art and other courses from experienced teachers in anymore. This new teaching model has effectively improved Beijing, Jiangsu and Zhejiang. the education equality for the less developed areas. To date, the Company has deployed several hundred classrooms In Jiangxi, we have deployed video hardware to connect in the poverty-stricken areas in central and western China, rural teaching sites with central schools in urban areas, benefiting nearly 10,000 students. In addition, we worked creating a Cloud Classroom that fully synchronizes the together with the Ministry of Education to jointly launch teaching processes at both ends of the educational support the campus broadband ”Double Plan” to give primary and partnership with its remote teaching function. Its Cloud secondary schools in poverty-stricken areas free broadband Homework function can support the rural children's afterservice upgrade. In 2019, we provided Internet access to school learning needs. The service is available to the 8.64 2,460 schools from the ”three regions and three prefectures”, million primary and middle school students in Jiangxi, and we achieving a 30% increase in the Internet access rate. have provided the Cloud Homework service for free, together with free broadband service, to 300,000 students from lowincome households. Our Hainan subsidiary actively participated in passion fruit planting in Our Xizang subsidiary helped build greenhouses in Bangren Village in Aili Rongbang Village, Baisha Prefecture to support local poverty alleviation Prefecture and improved local livelihood 32 Supporting Public Welfare Since its founding in 2009, the China Mobile Charity FounThe Foundation continuously improves its governance. It holds dation has been adhering to its public welfare philosophy of board meetings to decide on major issues twice a year, has devel“sincerity, commitment, harmony and sharing” in the last deoped and revised 11 rules and regulations such as the Charter of cade. Aiming at helping build a beautiful and inclusive society, China Mobile Charity Foundation , and makes three-year plans on the Foundation has implemented various programs to support a rolling basis. Efforts have also been made to improve its inforthe disadvantaged groups, promote education equality, supmatization and information disclosure. In 2019, the Foundation port environmental protection, and provide emergency assiscontinued to carry out its hallmark charity programs such as the tance in major disasters, etc. Heart Caring Program and Blue Dream . Heart Caring Program – support for children with congenital heart disease in poverty: Since 2011, we have been providing free screening and treatment for children from poverty-stricken families with congenital heart disease. In 2019, we donated RMB17.8 million to implement the program, and successfully completed the Ningxia phase III, Guangxi phase III and Yunnan phase I new projects. Over the past 8 years, we have implemented the program in 10 provinces (regions), and provided free congenital heart disease screening for 54,968 children and free surgical treatment for 5,973 diagnosed children, with a cumulative donation of RMB178.6 million. Blue Dream – China Mobile Education Aid Plan: In 2019, we provided training to 11,556 principals from poverty-stricken areas and built 561 multimedia classrooms. Please see pages 28-29 for detail information. We also studied the actual needs of society and engaged in a variety of efforts focusing on the fields of poverty alleviation, community development, and elderly care and child care, helping serve poverty population, children, outdoor workers, elderly, disabled and Supporting Poverty Alleviation and Public Welfare other disadvantaged groups with programs such as the “And You” donation to support education, the “And Seedlings” volunteer teaching program, and the “Learning from Lei Feng” voluntary service activities. We continued to explore new models to empower public welfare with technology. In 2019, we worked together with the online news portal Toutiao and jointly launched the “Find You” public welfare program, donating 1,000 “Find Him/Her” positioning bracelets to elderly people with Alzheimer’s disease. Exploring Innovative Public Welfare Programs with Fun The First Charity Platform for Internet Fans in China MIGU Music Class In 2019, MIGU innovated the “Music + Public Welfare + MIGU Music Class was launched in 2017. By the end Fan Group” model and created the first fan-based pubof 2019, it has entered more than 10 schools. Together lic welfare music platform in China. With the influence with star artists, music college students and volunteers of celebrities and the enthusiasm of music fans in charifrom all walks of life, the program has brought music ty activities, MIGU launched an online charity challenge classes and donated musical instruments, books and relay and organized on-site visits, providing young other items to more than 10,000 children in remote music fans with charitable activities to spread positive areas, contributing to the improvement of rural quality energy. education. Bring History Alive with Digitization In 2019, MIGU and the China Museum Association jointly launched the Mobile Museum event, bringing together 130 national top museums to create a museum aggregation platform. Our Shaanxi subsidiary and MIGU cooperated with Shaanxi Provincial Bureau of Cultural Relics to jointly develop an “Internet + Cultural Heritage Education” platform with digital museums, museum campus tours and cultural documentaries. The platform has made available the excellent digital cultural contents from 87 partner museums to thousands of households with the support of mobile optical broadband network and Internet TV. As of the end of 2019, we had organized 28 themed activities in Shaanxi, including the Campus Han Costume Show, Intelligent Poverty Alleviation, etc. The 5 digital museums we established have attracted over 5 million views and become a platform for the younger generation to have close interaction with our cultural heritage. In 2019, MIGU continued its efforts to support education. It developed the “Tongyue Project” client-side app, carried out charity sales and donation of the MIGU version of Kindle, and participated in a number of education charity programs in cooperation with various stakeholders. In the New Era Rural Reading Season program, the MIGU Read app has opened a section of free e-books to encourage more farmers to experience the convenience of digital reading, and help solve the “last mile” challenge of rural library service. 33 Caring for Takeaway Riders With the rapid development of the mobile Internet, takeaway riders shuttling through the streets have become an ordinary part of urban life. Our Jiangsu subsidiary fully studied the needs of delivery workers and launched a charity campaign of “Caring for Young Riders and Building a Star City” in Changzhou City with three components to support takeaway riders. Caring Plan: Upgraded the existing “Caring Station” for sanitary workers in 100 plus stores for use by takeaway riders, providing them with a shelter to rest with drinking water, first aid supplies and convenience China Mobile Youth Rider Caring Station tools. During rainy or snowy days, they could also take shelter or borrow raincoats. In each month, there was a “Rider Day” special event organized at five showcase caring stations, offering services such as free mobile phone screen protectors, free books and magazines borrowing to the riders. Rate Plan: We launched preferential rate plans based on the special usage of riders to help them reduce expenses. Empower Plan: We organized regular awareness-raising programs on communication technology and network security to improve riders’ awareness of information security. Riders getting drinking water at the caring station Total number of registered Total amount of employee As of the end of employee volunteers volunteer service time 2019 122,900 615,100 hours Our Jilin subsidiary established its employee volunteer team 10 years ago and carried out a total of 33,816 hours of volunteering services to help the disabled, the elderly and families in need. In 2019, the volunteer team was awarded the title of “Advanced Collective for Assistance to the Disabled in China”. 34 06 Promoting Coordinated Regional Development Serving Regional Construction In recent years, the government further deepened its coordinated regional development strategy and implemented a number of regional development plans, such as the Master Plan of the Hebei Xiong’an New Area (2018-2035) , the Outline of the Development Plan for the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area , the Master Plan of the China (Hainan) Pilot Free Trade Zone , and the Outline of the Yangtze River Delta Regional Integrated Development Plan , injecting strong impetus into the high-quality economic development of China. China Mobile actively implements the requirements of the relevant strategies. We have made special regional network plans in our annual network planning and promoted the sharing of regional network resources to support coordinated regional development. Xiong'an New Area Completed the Phase 1 5G construction, helping the New Area build benchmark 5G network. Hosted a series of forums on 5G and smart city, and arranged over 600 experts (person-times) to participate in the formulation of smart city standards and programs. Support the inclusion of the New Area into the national backbone network. Promoting Coordinated Regional Development Preliminarily achieved “GB to the households and ten GBs to the enterprises” in the New Area. Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Optimized the tariff plans and introduced the Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao universal voice/data monthly packages. The average roaming data tariff in Hong Kong and Macao decreased by 33% compared to 2018. Facilitated the development of a regional collaboration and communication mechanism and the integrated development of international optical cable network, data center, smart park, 4G/5G wireless and various industry application platforms in the area, creating an optimized balance of resources and demand. Constructed the Zhuhai-Hong Kong cross-border cable and upgraded the Shenzhen-Hong Kong cross-border cable to enhance regional network transmission capacity. Hainan Free Trade Zone Established the Hainan International Submarine Cable and Information Hub Construction Leading Group with Hainan provincial government, and started the preparation for the construction of the Hainan-Hong Kong Submarine Cable Project and the submarine cable from Hainan to the Maritime Silk Road countries. Yangtze River Delta Region Built a regional high-speed data center system by solving the hotspot resource over-demand challenge with the coordinative planning of data center. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, our Guangdong subsidiary, Macao Telecom and Guangdong Communication Industry Association jointly initiated the establishment of the Greater Bay Area 5G Industry Alliance (“the Alliance”) in August 2019. The Alliance takes advantage of the 5G + industry chain in the Greater Bay Area, coordinates research of products and services, technological innovation and industry standards based on 5G technology, laying a solid foundation for the high-quality development of the Greater Bay Area. 35 Supporting the Belt and Road Initiative From Chinese President Xi Jinping proposing the initiative to jointly build the “Silk Road Economic Belt” and the “21st Century Maritime Silk Road” in 2013, to the release of The Belt and Road Initiative: Progress, Contributions and Prospects report in 2019, the Belt and Road Initiative has made concrete progress over the years in the areas of policy coordination, connectivity of infrastructure, unimpeded trade, financial integration, and closer people-to-people ties. It has received positive responses from more and more countries and international organizations, attracted wider attention internationally, and seen its impact grow steadily. China Mobile has been actively participating in the construction of the Belt and Road Initiative. We established the Department of International Business in 2019, which is responsible for formulating our international development plan as well as the Belt and Road Initiative implementation plan, striving to help build a smooth “Information Silk Road” with measures such as promoting communication infrastructure connectivity and providing high-quality information and communication services. Regarding the construction of international communication infrastructure, we continue to optimize the “road, station and island” network layout and promote the infrastructure construction in Belt and Road countries. We also lowered the tariffs accordingly. Among the Belt and Road Countries, 105 directions enjoy the RMB30 daily package for data and 119 directions enjoy the Belt and Road RMB1 daily package for voice calls. Moreover, we have achieved roaming settlement cooperation with almost all Belt and Road countries in Africa. Road Information Highway Information Station Information Island Hub (connecting resources) (POPs) (data centers) Promoting the construction of the Operating over 170 POPs Data centers in Singapore and Asia-Oceania and Asia-America globally, including 137 selfthe UK have been completed undersea cables along the Belt built nodes, covering over 60 and put into use; IDC resale and Road countries, and upBelt and Road countries and partners grew to 23 during grading the capacity of various regions. the year, covering 179 cities undersea cables and cross-boraround the world. der terrestrial cables. Road Station Island We launched the CMLink mobile service brand in overseas mardigital experience with a global Internet of low cost, high quality, kets, providing local communication services in UK, Japan, Thaifast delivery and wide coverage through international business land, Canada, Singapore and other countries and regions, and and technical cooperation along the industry chain. In 2019, we global data Internet access services for business travelers with introduced the 5G Initiative into the Hand-in-hand Program and the CMLink global data card product. We also developed the developed the cooperation focusing on 5G + ecosystem, 5G + OneLink and One Card Two Numbers platforms to better serve roaming, and 5G + IoT, with a vision to achieve all-win in the the needs of Internet of Things import and export business and 5G era. 16 partners joined the initiative. With regard to the exrealize the global connectivity of the Internet of Things. pansion of members, with Vietnamese telecom operator Viettel Regarding industry cooperation, we took the initiative and becoming the 26th member of Hand-in-hand Program in 2019, launched the Hand-in-hand Program, aiming at providing custhe program now covers more than 2.9 billion mobile users tomers with a high-speed, seamless, worry-free and borderless worldwide. China Mobile’s Improving Overseas Service Capabilities to Support Belt and Road Construction won ”2019 Sustainable Development Goals Enterprise Best Practices (Global Partnership)” Award by the UN Global Compact China Network. 36 07 Growing Together with Employees Protecting Employees’ Rights and Interests China Mobile strictly abides by the laws and regulations related to the protection of the rights and interests of employees in China and overseas1. The Company adheres to the principle of equal pay for equal work, and forbids any form of child labor or forced labor. We provide our employees with social insurance and housing fund, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of our employees in various ways. We are committed to building a fair, just, flexible, efficient, harmonious and stable workplace. The China Mobile Recruitment Management Measures upholds the principles of openness, transparency, equality and fairness in recruitment, specifies that except for certain specific positions, there should be no discriminatory job requirements such as height, appearance, ethnicity, gender, etc., Equal Employment and strictly prohibits the use of child labor and forced labor. Opportunity and Non-discrimination Adhering to relevant laws and regulations, our Labor and Employment Management Regulations specify that the two types of employment (contracted employees and dispatched employees) should be managed equally. It also specifies the management requirements regarding employment type, recruitment, labor contract management, working hours, leave and vacation, employee exit, etc. Growing Together with Employees We uphold the employees’ freedom of association and the rights of collective bargaining, and maintain smooth communication with employees in a number of ways, such as the CEO mailbox, employee hotline, employee forum, and employee representative meeting. All of our provincial subsidiaries have Protection of signed collective equal bargaining contracts with 100% of employees. Democratic Rights We fully protect the employees’ rights to know, participate, express and supervise, organize topic-based and Interests trainings on rights protection, and conduct trainings for the managers working on rights protection. We implement the “Female Rights Protection” program to help female employees better safeguard their legitimate rights. We strictly comply with the collective contracts and the special contracts for female employees, and monitor the compliance with labor contracts and labor protection laws and regulations. We care for women's needs and 100% of our female employees at the headquarters have returned to work after maternity leave. We strictly implement the workplace safety accountability system, establish and continuously optimize safety management policies, thoroughly identify safety hazards, invest in safety precaution facilities, so as to create a safe and healthy workplace for employees. Workplace Safety We ensure labor safety supplies and gears are properly prepared and managed. We also provide Management guidance and supervision to our employees in relation to personal safety protection during production to guarantee the safety and health of employees. We conduct full-coverage, multi-channel and high-quality safety training and education to raise the safety awareness and capabilities of employees, both at work and in their daily life, to prevent safety accidents. 1: The Company abides by the following laws and regulations regarding employee recruitment and employment: the Labor Law of China, the Labor Contract Law of China, the Ban on Using Child Labor , the Special Provisions on Labor Protection of Female Employees , the Women's Rights Protection Law of China, and the Law on Occupational Disease Prevention of China , etc. Recognized as one of the ”2019 Top 10 Best Employers” at the 2019 Best Employer of China Award event jointly organized by Zhaopin.com and the Institute of Social Science Survey, Peking University. Received the ”2019 Top 100 Model Employers in China” Award and the ”2019 Employer Brand Management Model” Award at the China Model Employer Award event. Received the ”Best Employer Brand Value Award” at the 4th China Talent Selection Award event. 37 Supporting Employee Career Development China Mobile is committed to providing a broad development platform and space for its employees and cultivating outstanding talents it needs to become a world-class enterprise. In terms of salary and incentive, we have implemented the salary system reform focusing on “performance orientation and structural adjustment”. We issued the China Mobile Salary and Incentive Policy in 2019 , which specifies a variety of incentive policies for key talents, including incentive for internalized core capabilities for backbones, incentive for technological innovation, annuity incentive for outstanding employees, periodic incentive on total salary, equity and dividend incentive for technology enterprises, share option incentive scheme, etc. We have also organized a number of competitions to commend the employees who have made outstanding contributions at work or in public welfare activities. China Mobile Craftsman In 2019, to cultivate outstanding talents within the Company, we organized the China Mobile Craftsman competition to commend employees who have been working in ordinary positions but have made extraordinary contributions. 200 employees won the China Mobile Craftsman honorary title. Please scan the QR code to read the Employees who won the 2019 China Mobile Craftsman title stories of the China Mobile Craftsman The Most Beautiful Mobilers The Company continued to organize the annual Most Beautiful Mobilers election to encourage all employees to learn from the employees selected for their outstanding merits, including dedication, innovation spirit, perseverance, hard work, care for society and willingness to serve the people. Please scan the QR code to read the stories of this year’s Most Beautiful Representatives from The Most Beautiful Mobilers sharing their stories Mobilers China Mobile Philanthropy Stars of the Year Ruan Zhengyu is an employee of Qianjiang Zhang You is an employee of Yicheng Branch Liang Zhongping is an employee of Yuhang Branch of our Chongqing subsidiary. In 2010, of our Shandong subsidiary. In 2010, he joined Branch of our Zhejiang subsidiary. As the team he started participating in the Company’s the Yicheng Volunteer Association. Since then, leader of the Liangzhu Museum Volunteer Serpoverty alleviation efforts. He organized the he has participated in more than 100 public vice, he and his team members have provided establishment of planting bases of traditional welfare activities, including multiple times over 80,000 hours of volunteer guide services Chinese herbs, pumpkin, mustard tuber, etc., of blood drives, at which he donated a total to tourists in their own spare time. He also and proactively help the farmers sell their of 3,800 milliliters of blood. With 9 years of helped apply China Mobile’s 5G technology in products. In addition, he studied the Company’s poverty alleviation policy regarding persistence, he has demonstrated the spirit for the Liangzhu National Heritage Park, creating communication services, and leveraged these public welfare by practising what he preaches. an experience of going back in history for visiservices to guide the farmers to increase their tors with 5G technology. income with entrepreneurship and help them solve the practical difficulties in production as well as in daily life. 38 Regarding employee training, we implemented the New Drivers Capacity Enhancement Master Plan to provide effective support to the “Powerhouse” strategy of the Company. Meanwhile, we developed curriculum resources in an efficient way, created plenty of opportunities for our internal trainers, and carried out various unique training activities for employees at different levels. New Drivers Capacity Enhancement Master Plan Reshaping the Skills of Improving the Capability of Empowering All Employees Core Talents the Front-Line Employees Organized the “5G+ General Developed a multi-field, multi-layer Developed a tiered curriculum Knowledge Learning for All” event capability system for “Cloud Reform” system for business customer for all technical employees, focusing and 5G core technology talents, used managers, grid managers and on 5G + AICDE essential knowledge skills map, learning path map and store managers with both online and know-how to systematically skill certification as the starting point and offline courses, strengthening update the knowledge across the to accumulate training resources the systematic training for front entire organization. progressively, and used practical training line employees. as an effective and targeted way to deal with the lack of core capabilities needed in the transformation. Organized 5 senior management seminars and formulated themed research reports as reference Senior for management decision-making. Growing Together with Employees Management Carried out the leadership development program for new senior deputy management to help them improve management efficiency. Organized special training on finance, discipline inspection and other functions to improve the business capability of senior management. Implemented the Pair Support Action Plan to help solve practical problems in operations. Mid-level Organized demonstration classes for key management staff of subsidiaries at prefecture level Management focusing on strategy implementation and day-to-day organization skills, and provided online courses to approximately 1,700 management staff members in companies at prefecture-level to improve their overall capabilities. Developed annual key training plans for technology, marketing and other functions, and carried out over 200 onsite training programs for core business personnel at the Group headquarters. Carried out the ”3-3-3” Leapfrog Growth Program for channel managers, providing them with Employees the innovative ”systematic training + practical training” model, and a capability model and a curriculum system specially designed for channel managers. Provided online learning opportunities through online universities to help employees improve their professional skills and teamwork, with a total participation of more than 450,000 persons. We continued to carry out the skill certification of financial, user experience and network maintenance personnel. In 2019, we organized more than 400 skill certification exams and 140,000 person-times had passed. The China Mobile Academy won the ”Advanced Enterprise University” Award of China Enterprise Executive Training and Development Alliance. The China Mobile Academy won the “Best Corporate University of China 2019” Award in China’s Best Corporate University ranking. The China Mobile Academy’s Network Operation and Maintenance Technical Talent Training and Certification Program won the 2019 ATD Excellence Practice Award by the Association of Talent Development. 39 New retail training for channel personnel at “Burning Ice Action” in Jiangsu Home broadband training in Shaanxi Network and support personnel operation skills competition in Anhui Capacity building training for core backbone employees in Hunan 40 Caring for Employees’ Work-life Balance China Mobile strives to create a working environment conducive to physical and mental health and well-being for its employees, pays attention to the work life balance of employees, and strives to continuously improve employee satisfaction. ”Happiness 1+1” The program was launched in 2015, encouraging employees to pick up “1” sport activity and cultivate “1” hobby. In 2019, we launched a variety of activities under the program, including walking, running, Employee Care hiking, tree planting, mobile photography exhibition, calligraphy and painting exhibition, etc., covering Program 395,000 employees of the Company. We continuously improve the facilities at our workplace of our companies at county (municipal) and lower level, such as equipment at dining area, water dispenser area, washroom, changing room, lounge, ”Five Smalls” learning area, etc., to provide a comfortable working environment for employees. In 2016, we launched Employee Caring the “Five Smalls” Employee Caring Project and started creating a homelike atmosphere for employees Project with small canteen, small bathroom, small lounge, small activity room and small reading room. In 2019, we spent RMB469 million to comprehensively improve the workplace conditions in grass-roots units, with priority given to locations in less developed areas with hard conditions and inadequate infrastructure. We have been offering EAP programs for 14 consecutive years. We have organized a variety of forums, Employee work sharing sessions and training courses, and accumulated rich experience in crisis intervention and Assistance training of specialists. In 2019, 31 provincial subsidiaries and 20 professional units had established EAP Program (EAP) programs, covering over 320,000 employees, and having cumulatively trained a total of 3,093 EAP specialists and set up 120 stress rooms, care rooms and other places. We provide regular physical examinations with examination reports issued for all employees, and Growing Together with Employees conduct health lectures and health consultation services. In 2019, 97% of our employees participated Medical Care in the free medical examinations we offered. We also use relief fund, medical insurance and employee mutual aid to help employees with severe disease or personal difficulties. We have increased the amount and the response speed for emergency support. In 2019, we gave out Disaster Relief a total of RMB2.8 million to support employees of 10 units who were affected by disasters such as floods and typhoons, bringing them the timely care from the Company. Caring for Mental Health of Employees in Hubei In order to alleviate the psychological stress caused by the long lock-down due to the outbreak of COVID-19, our Hubei subsidiary promptly optimized the EAP work plan and actively provided psychological support for its employees. Strengthened mental health education, integrated variStrengthened the efforts of employee care, gave out ous resources to provide online lectures for 19 times on RMB510,000 as special subsidies to infected employees, prevention knowledge and psychological assistance on gave out RMB334,000 as relief money to quarantined emthe online university platform, and launched an online ployees and their families, organized front-line staff support EAP psychological mini-lecture series with over 8,000 activities for 4,552 person-times, and distributed materials views. valued at RMB1.63 million. Established a dedicated psychological counseling hotline Over 6,000 employees participated in the online epidemic for employees, which had handled over 40 consultations time psychological self-assessment, where participants with for a total duration of over 2,000 minutes. certain conditions received timely follow-up calls and targeted consultation. Summer program for children of employees in Shanghai The Fourth ”Happiness 1+1” Employee Games in Xinjiang 41 Summary of Our Key Performances Our Achievements in 2019 Developed the “network + poverty alleviation” model based on “1+3+X” system, with our parent company investing RMB760 million in targeted poverty alleviation and dispatched 4,425 poverty alleviation volunteers to promote poverty alleviation support in the fields of education, health care and livelihood. Huanan and Tangyuan were officially taken off the list of targeted poverty alleviation counties in May 2019. Continued to carry out our brand public welfare programs such as the Blue Dream Education Aid Plan and the Heart Caring Program, innovated on project commencement modes based on social needs and development trends, and encouraged employees to participate in volunteering activities. As of the end of 2019, the China Mobile Charity Foundation had donated RMB356 million cumulatively. Actively participated in the implementation of regional coordination and development strategies, promoted the development of the Belt and Road Initiative and strove to build a smooth ”Information Silk Road”. Upheld the principle of equal opportunity and no discrimination in employment, strictly safeguarded the legitimate rights of employees, provided employees with unimpeded career development channels and a comprehensive training system, protected employees, health and safety, and made efforts to help employees maintain work-life balance. In 2019, the Company provided training to its employees for 1.825 million person-times. Our Goals for 2020 and Beyond To promote the “network + poverty alleviation” model based on the “1+3+X” system in an all-around way, give priority to support areas in extreme poverty, and provide continuous support to ensure the counties newly taken off the list of targeted poverty alleviation counties do not slip back to poverty; to adhere to the requirements of the Rural Revitalization Strategy, vigorously promote poverty alleviation through developing local industries and information solutions, and improve the quality of poverty alleviation. To further increase our support to less developed areas in western China, integrate our brand public welfare programs with battling poverty alleviation efforts, and give priority to address the needs for aid and education of areas in extreme poverty. To deepen our implementation of coordinated regional development strategies and the Belt and Road Initiative, continue to improve regional network infrastructure, strengthen communication business cooperation, and build a high-quality information highway. To optimize the career development path closely related to capability development and performance evaluation, strive to establish an employee career development system that provide smooth vertical and flexible horizontal mobilities and clear career path, and provide employees of different categories with a multi-dimensional career development space; to implement the “New Drivers Capacity Enhancement Master Plan”, and carry out the company-wide “CHBN Knowledge Empowerment Action” to encourage all employees to deepen their understanding of general knowledge related to 5G+. Key Performance Indicators Public Welfare Employment and Diversity Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Total number of employees 1 464,656 459,152 456,239 Cumulative donation made by China Mobile Charity Foundation 27,225 31,055 35,590 Number of jobs created (10,000) 260 288 268 (RMB10,000) Human Resource Composition Total number of registered 11.10 13.59 12.29 employee volunteers (10,000) Percentage of technical personnel (%) 23.34 25.18 27.13 Total amount of employee volunPercentage of marketing 56.80 56.76 61.51 56.56 55.17 53.27 teer service time (10,000 hours) personnel (%) Cumulative number of impoverPercentage of management 7.25 7.29 7.51 ished children to receive free con39,488 45,648 54,968 personnel (%) genital heart disease screenings Percentage of general affairs 10.09 10.50 10.64 Cumulative number of assisted personnel (%) children in poverty who suffered 4,498 5,358 5,973 Percentage of other 2.76 1.86 1.45 from congenital heart disease personnel (%) Cumulative number of multimedia Diversity 2 2,030 2,302 2,863 classrooms built Number of employees in Mainland Cumulative number of principals 454,298 China of rural primary and secondary 103,828 115,782 127,338 Number of employees in Hong schools trained Kong, Macau, Taiwan and overseas 1,941 markets 42 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees under 30 Percentage of dispatched employees 29.62 24.35 19.76 98 98 98 years of age (%) who are labor union members (%) Percentage of employees between Notes: 65.95 71.13 75.33 30 and 50 years of age (%) 1. All employees of the Company during the year are full-time, and no part-time employees are hired. Jointly Shaping Percentage of employees over 50 2. The indicators under Diversity and Employee Turnover are based on the 4.43 4.52 4.91 years of age (%) number of on-post employees at the end of 2019. The employee turnover refers to resigned employees. Percentage of female employees (%) 55.11 53.17 53.94 Percentage of female employees at 13.18 16.45 16.40 Employee Training senior management level (%) Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees (%) 6.83 7.03 7.07 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 a Harmonious Training expense per employee (RMB) 1,717 1,892 2,004 Percentage of local employees in our Ecology 89.4 89.5 88.5 Hong Kong subsidiary (%) Number of person-times trained 183.9 182.1 182.5 (10,000 person-times) Percentage of local employees at management level in our Hong Kong 75.0 71.2 66.7 Number of senior 986 1,047 1,237 subsidiary (%) management trained (person-times) Number of middle-level management Employee Turnover 2 28,669 18,744 22,357 trained (person-times) Summary of Our Key Performances Total number of newly hired Number of general employees trained 27,011 20,259 23,727 181.0 180.1 180.2 employees (10,000 person-times) 关键绩效表 Average training time per employee Number of female employees 88.5 100.8 105.7 14,194 8,397 10,122 (hours) newly hired Average training time per senior Number of male employees newly 106.9 106.0 107.4 12,817 11,862 13,605 management (hours) hired Average training time per middle-level 88.1 109.5 114.2 Total number of resigned employees 14,831 18,217 13,161 manager (hours) Average training time per general Number of resigned female 88.6 100.7 105.6 8,242 9,411 7,375 employee (hours) employees Training participation rate of senior 98.7 Number of resigned male management (%) 6,589 8,806 5,786 employees Training participation rate of 95.8 middle-level management (%) Total number of dismissed 925 1,317 1,401 Training participation rate of general employees 98.6 employees (%) Number of female employees Average Online University study 589 888 949 50.0 53.6 65.3 dismissed time per employee (hours) Number of male employees Number of mobile Online University 336 429 452 29.1 34.5 36.8 dismissed users via mobile phone (10,000) Turnover rate of employees 2.24 1.55 1.42 46 Developing Innovative Green Solutions under 30 years of age (%) Employee Health and Workplace Safety Turnover rate of employees between 1.59 2.56 1.55 48 Promoting Low Carbon, Circular 30 and 50 years of age (%) Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Development Employee turnover of employees Total investment in workplace safety 0.21 0.15 0.05 21.09 23.24 24.07 over 50 years of age (%) (RMB100 million) Number of safety emergency drills 1,250 1,225 1,230 Female employee turnover rate (%) — 2.05 1.63 Participation rate in safety 86.0 86.0 86.3 Male employee turnover rate (%) — 1.92 1.40 emergency drills (%) Accident fatality rate per 1,000 Employee Rights 0.004 0.004 0 employees (%) Percentage of contracted employees who Number of fatalities caused by 100 100 100 2 2 0 are labor union members (%) workplace safety incidents 43 Safeguarding Lucid Waters and Lush Mountains Sustainability Context with Smart Applications In the Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve of Anxi, Fujian province, there is a magical pair of ”eyes”: they can detect forest pests and instantly prompt the conservation department to take treatment measures; when the rangers handle withered trees, they can then connect them with experts for ”zero distance” guidance; and they can also swiftly detect forest fires and send the fastest warnings to the forest Climate change has become a challenge facing all department. countries. The Chinese government earnestly fulfils its This pair of “eyes” is called the Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve Information System, which has been tailor-made for the provincial-level obligations under the United Nations Framework ConYunzhongshan Nature Reserve by our Fujian subsidiary. Relying on 4G, cloud computing, Global Positioning System (GPS) and other invention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement , formation technologies, the system supports a range of management functions such as personnel positioning and dispatching, real-time incorporates the construction of an ecological civilizamonitoring of key locations, processing of captured images, and SMS alert and publicity, and diligently performs its duties to protect the tion into the overall national development planning, local environment. and thoroughly implements three major action plans for the prevention and control of atmospheric, water A Smart ”Housekeeper” for Forest Monitoring and soil pollution. Based on a sustainable consumpLocated in the mountainous area of Anxi County, the expansive Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve is home to many precious animals and tion and production model, China has contributed plants and requires intensive efforts to patrol and protect the forest. The Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve Information System enables a significantly to the realization of the relevant Unitfull range of functions such as ranger management, video surveillance and mobile resource monitoring. Different from traditional forest ed Nations Sustainable Development Goals. One of protection that relies on manual labor, the system has digitalized the alerting and monitoring of forest fires and disasters with the monithe contributions lies in the ICT sector, which plays toring command center as the core and digital communication as the means. a key role in monitoring climate change, mitigating and adapting to its impact, and promoting society’s transformation to a green circular economy. At the The system divides up the entire scenic area and sets up At the same time, the system uploads pictures taken by same time, with the continuous evolution and develelectronic fences. GPS positioning and historical movement the thermal imaging monitors to the monitoring center opment of 5G technology, how the ICT industry seeks tracing enable assessment and management of the rangers through the mobile resource monitoring system. Those a balance between the surge in energy demand and at any time; forest fires are monitored in real time through pictures enable the Reserve to collect and analyze inforlow-carbon development has also been placed under remote monitoring of key areas and intersections using the mation of passing rare animals and provide clues about the spotlight. video surveillance system. poaching and smuggling of wild animals and plants, leading to markedly enhanced efficiency and precision in solving cases and effectively deterring illegal activities. Adhering to the ecological civilization philosophy of “Lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable asThis system has been of enormous help to Yunzhongshan rangers. Not long ago, tea farmers in the Reserve set the tea trees on fire as they sets”, China Mobile is committed to pursuing green attempted to plant fruit trees in the tea garden. The system detected the smoke when the fire began to develop and sent out an immediate and environmentally friendly development. While early warning, which prompted the forest protection department to quickly rush to the scene and stop a forest fire from happening. This leveraging our industry advantages and actively manspring, the system detected some hunters hunting in the mountain at night. The rangers immediately joined forces with the forest police to aging our own environmental footprint, we continue take protection actions and conducted timely investigations in surrounding villages, which served as an effective deterrent. to innovate the methods and means of applying ICT to environmental protection as we join hands with all sectors of society to contribute to minimizing environmental pollution. 44 With the help of the System, the ranger is dedicated to safeguarding the Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve Real-time HD video surveillance at each important location of the Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve area A Smart ”Helper” to Daily Forest Patrols The Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve Information System is mainly videos with the built-in camera of specially-made mobile phones, composed of the monitoring command center, long-distance which are uploaded to the cloud in real time. By analyzing the video surveillance, resource monitoring wireless image-capturing, uploaded data, the monitoring center can accurately detect cases and ranger movement tracing. In addition to smart monitoring of illegal forest logging and provide scientific guidance on pest in the forest areas, there is also a smart patrol “good helper” for control and forest preservation. In the event of an emergency, frontline rangers. the rangers can also use a one-click SOS alarm to quickly locate the incident, which safeguards their safety and guarantees highly This ”good helper”, called the ”Smart Ranger Patrol System”, effective firefighting efforts. was specially developed for Yunzhongshan forest preservation inspections. During the inspections, the rangers can take photos or Safeguarding Lucid Waters and Lush Mountains with Smart Applications Ranger using the Smart Ranger Patrol System Real-time video communication with ranger “This system can help us report situations discovered during the patrol to the back-office staff in time. For example, when we discover abnormal conditions such as fallen trees, suspicious animal access, insect disasters, fires, etc., we can use the platform to report information automatically with precise geographic location to facilitate work while ensuring our personal safety.” —— Lin Fuxiang, Ranger “A few days ago, we communicated in real time over the treatment of a few withered trees, which were found by some rangers during a patrol. We immediately set up a dedicated line to have the rangers communicate with forestry experts in real time via a video link, and provided proper treatment of the trees.” —— Shen Jinquan, Director of the Management Committee of the Yunzhongshan Nature Reserve Area As of the end of 2019, we had equipped all the rangers with the patrol system, enabling protection of over 3,000 hectares of forests. 45 08 Developing Innovative Green Solutions Innovating Environmental Applications In the past years, China Mobile has put into practice the green development concepts and strives to make the sky bluer, water greener, and mountain lusher by promoting ecological construction with information-based means. The Company has launched exploration of IoT application in many fields across China, such as smart logistics, smart transportation, smart lighting and smart factories, using IoT technology to help all sectors effectively reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Window of Ecology, Contributing to Clearer Water With a view to better protecting the lakes, wetlands and enables remote and real-time HD video observation, monimeadow ecosystem in Sanjiangyuan region, our Qinghai toring, and research and assessment of the ecological types, subsidiary and the Qinghai Provincial Environmental Protecnatural landscapes, wildlife and biodiversity in the five major tion Department jointly launched the Qinghai “Window of ecological regions of Qinghai based on 35 observation points Ecology” project, and established a provincial observation deployed throughout the province. A unified, complete, auand control platform, an on-site video observation system thoritative and efficient ecological environment monitoring at observation points for key ecological function areas and network has thus been constructed, guaranteeing better retypical locations, an audio and video connection system, and fined management of environmental protection efforts. dedicated long-distance transmission networks. The project Technology Empowering Garbage Sorting for a Green Life Closely following governmental requirements for environmental protection, our Beijing subsidiary introduced a Supervision full-process garbage sorting supervision program based on its of the independent R&D and local integration capabilities. transportation process Supervision of the transportation process: It tracks garSupervision bage trucks in real time and plans the collection and Hand-held of residents’ transportation routes and personnel workload in a radevices for quality garbage inspection tional and effective manner to improve work efficiency. disposal Supervision of residents’ garbage disposal: The AI smart garbage bins placed in the community allow registered residents to throw in garbage based on face recognition; the residents can also scan a QR code to acquire Intelligent big knowledge on garbage sorting and earn points by data center APP platform throwing in garbage, which can be exchanged for recommand interaction wards. The residents can also see their rankings on the and dispatch data analysis platform and learn about the impact of garbage sorting on the environment. At present, the full-process garbage sorting supervision serIntelligent big data center command and dispatch: It vices have been piloted in Miyun District and Dongcheng enables timely collection of data about the whole proDistrict of Beijing, increasing the decontamination, reuse and cess of garbage disposal, collection, transportation and recycling rate of garbage in those two districts from 65% to processing and the flow of garbage to prevent the sort100%. In the future, we will further improve the functions ed garbage from being mixed again on the back end. and promote nationwide adoption of the services to contribAPP platform interaction: It promptly publishes monute to garbage reuse and recycling. itoring data via the public service app and interactive coordination platform, and has channels in place to offer consultation and receive complaints, suggestions and feedback from residents. Hand-held devices for quality inspection: These devices allow sanitation workers to enter information such as the type of garbage, and offer intelligent means to reduce their workload such as the smart sorting system and smart inspection app. Smart garbage bins Garbage sorting mobile app 46 Spreading Green Ideas Our Energy Conservation Awareness Week continued in 2019. We fully played to our strengths and disseminated low-carbon and green concepts among our stakeholders such as employees, customers and the general public through activities like carbon emissions calculation, “And Machine Swap Service” (the trade-in of old mobile phones for new ones and recycling and refurbishing of optical modems and set top boxes), “Green Box by Your Side” (recycling of used phones, batteries and accessories), Green Life Photography Exhibition, and the publication of the Special Issue on Energy Conservation Awareness . Scan the QR code to watch China Mobile Scan the QR code to learn more about 2019 Energy Conservation Awareness China Mobile Green Action Plan Week proposal Various Green and Environmental Protection Awareness Activities In Liaoning, our employees made office supplies and daily necessities with waste paper and made vases and unique pen holders and storage boxes with waste newspapers, cultivating a sound atmosphere of energy consumption and low carbon. In Sichuan, we carried out a number of activities such as garbage sorting and recycling, green running and urban ”scanning”, calling on our employees customers and partners to cultivate an environmental awareness in their daily work and life. Developing Innovative Green Solutions In Shanxi, we initiated the hand-drawn energy consumption awareness posters event themed “Energy Conservation by My Side” at our business stores in Taiyuan and Yuncheng, promoting green ideas to our customers through delicately drawn posters. Helping Build Green Urban Homes “Green Shanghai with You” is a strategic public welfare brand of our Shanghai subsidiary. It works with government agencies and runs diversified programs with a view to intensifying residents’ awareness and actions for loving, protecting and appreciating the environment. Our Shanghai subsidiary hosted a number of environmental protection volunteering campaigns in 2019, which were very well received by the public. Charity Run in Celebration of China’s 70th Birthday: We supported activities such as “Scent of Books Exchange for Scent of Flowers” and “One Child and One Tree” at the Charity Run event to allow residents to experience the environmental protection and public welfare concept of “Green Life Starts With Me”. Close-to-nature Family Activity: The event allowed parents and children to experience the wonderful and magical relationship between plants and insects in nature together by watching the ”One Flower One World” painting exhibition. The ”Garbage Sorting” family game further strengthened children's awareness of garbage sorting. Care Activities on Campus: Gifts like ecology photographs and flowers were given to mentally challenged students in the supplementary reading class of Xinzhuang elementary school; educational classes on environmental protection and guided outdoor appreciation courses were given to the private Yumiao Elementary School where the majority of the students were children of migrant workers, and our volunteers also conducted interactive prize quizzes and gave away free plant seeds. Since the project was launched, our Shanghai subsidiary has won honors such as “Excellent Public Welfare Partner” and “Excellent Partner in Shanghai for Volunteer Tree Planting”. In the future, our Shanghai subsidiary will continue to carry out environmental volunteering activities regularly and advocate environmental protection together with the public. Charity run in celebration of China’s 70th birthday Green class at the private Yumiao Elementary School 47 09 Promoting Low Carbon, Circular Development Coping with Climate Change China Mobile actively responds to the challenges brought by climate change. We have established a circular management system covering all aspects of our operation, and made continuous efforts to improve our environmental performance and reduce our GHG emissions. EMS Coverage: All aspects of our operations, including product operation and commercial facilities, selection of suppliers and service providers, research and development of new products and services, packaging and shipping, waste management, engineering design, new project construction, due diligence, daily office operations, etc. Since the launch of the Green Action Plan in 2007, we compile the China Mobile Green Action Plan Annual Priorities every year, and allocate special funds for energy conservation and emission reduction to be used in energy saving renovations of communication base station, data center, office building, business stores, etc., thereby safeguarding the implementation of climate change related investment projects. We also vigorously promote energy conservation measures in technology and management and actively use renewable energy. In 2019, we established the China Mobile Leading Group for Pollution Prevention and Energy Conservation as the main responsible body for ecological environmental protection and energy conservation, to ensure that solid progress is being made in pollution prevention and control as well as in energy conservation. We have formulated the China Mobile’s Management Measures for Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution Risks and the China Mobile Management Measures for Energy Conservation , laying out detailed regulations on the identification, prevention and remediation of the risk points of air, water, soil and other emissions in our operation activities, as well as detailed requirements regarding energy conservation and pollution prevention, including allocation of responsibilities, scope of work, prevention and control measures, functional management requirements and comprehensive evaluation system. Climate Risks Faced by China Mobile and Our Responses Risk Type Risk Description Response We closely follow changes in policies, laws and regulations, and promptly adjust our strategy and measures accordingly and arrange for the publicizing The requirements of laws and implementation across the Group; quarterly calculate carbon emissions Current or and regulations regarding data and evaluate the cost of fulfilment and legal risk regarding non-fulfilemerging laws energy conservation and ment; and annually assess and ensure the consistency of our current internal and emission reduction, and management rules of carbon trading with the ETS regulations released by Beiregulations carbon trading market bejing Municipal Commission of Development and Reform. In 2019, we successcome stricter fully completed the tasks of submission of carbon emission report, third-party verification, carbon trading and compliance. Risk of the counterparty We regularly monitor carbon price fluctuation, and monthly evaluate the Legal default due to increase in cost of fulfilment and the financial impact if the counterparty defaults. carbon price Risk of sudden expansion We analyze the impact of network scale on energy consumption and greenMarket of network scale due to house gas emissions and on our cost based on our annual internal planning. rapid user growth 48 Risk Type Risk Description Response Risk of government critiWe conduct regular assessments on fulfilment risk, plan to include a continReputation cism or fine for unfulfilled gency mechanism regarding non-fulfilment in our carbon trading management carbon trading obligations system, and assess the impact of reputation damage on the Company. Damages to infrastructure Acute We built 46 super base stations in 2019 that can function under disaster conand fixed assets due to physical ditions of earthquake, flood, typhoon or snow storm. extreme weather conditions We regularly evaluate and monitor the operation hours of A/C units in equipment room, and the impact on energy cost. We have also adopted energy-savGreater power consumpChronic ing technology for main equipment in wireless network, transmission, IT/IP tion of equipment room physical and core networks. We have implemented energy-saving upgrade of existing due to global warming equipment rooms by using air-conditioning, power supply, lighting and other energy efficient technologies and products. We issue equipment energy conservation grading standards to suppliers annually as part of the supplier assessment process, requiring equipment manufacturers to meet the requirement for product energy consumption and efficiency. Equipment with high During the procurement process, we strictly inspect the energy consumption Upstream energy consumption will and efficiency parameters of the equipment. Each year, we calculate and use more energy evaluate the energy consumption and financial impact of each supplier, and update the energy conservation grading standard to achieve greater emission reduction along our supply chain. Data center (IDC) leasing We regularly make forecasts about the growth rate of the IDC business, and Promoting Low Carbon, Circular Development Downstream business increases energy evaluate the related financial impacts such as operating cost and energy cost. consumption We regularly research the growth trend of our energy consumption every year based on policies or other management requirements. We also conduct cost analysis on the portion that exceeds the control targets, set energy saving and emission reduction targets for the current year, formulate the plan of technologies to be added or replaced as well as old or high energy consumption equipment to be replaced, and ensure the implementation by formulating Existing low-carbon techrelevant work and evaluation requirements. Meanwhile, we actively explore Technology nologies cannot meet marand apply the latest and most practical low-carbon technologies, closely follow ket and policy requirements industry trends related to energy-saving technologies and products, cooperate with research institutions to support long-term research on energy conservation, actively carry out pilot applications of new energy-saving technologies and products, regularly collect best practices in energy conservation and emission reduction from front-line units, and organize training and experience sharing on energy conservation and emission reduction. In 2019, we modified more than 1,000 existing equipment rooms and data centers to make them more energy-saving and green, including optimization of air conditioning system and airflows, application of natural cooling sources, sleep function for power switches, and upgrade to high-efficiency power switches. Building Green Data Centers Huainan Data Center, located in Anhui Province, is the single largest data center in East China and a major energy user. We actively researched and innovated on green data center. In 2019, we filed 4 patent applications, laying a solid foundation for the transformation to become a clean and low-carbon data center. Fine management of equipment room cooling: We Smart and paperless equipment room maintenance replace compressors with natural atmospheric cooling in system: Maintenance personnel swipe their NFC enabled autumn and winter, and use storage cooling in off-peak mobile handsets over patrolling checkpoints, allowing time in the middle of the day, realizing an annual power accurate, automatic and closed-loop management and saving of over 12 million kWhs. maintenance of data center infrastructure. Central air conditioning water treatment and pollution AI precision refrigeration configuration assistant: We use reduction system: The system monitors the water quality AI technology to automatically adjust the configuration of water-cooled air conditioning units, and softens of refrigeration hardware based on the real-time and treats the water automatically to increase the operating conditions to improve refrigeration efficiency efficiency of heat exchange. The system can help reduce with precision and to lower A/C energy consumption. power consumption by 1.9 million kWhs and avoid the Equipment room airflow optimization: We modify the air discharge of 20,000 cubic meters of sewage each year. duct and air baffle to ensure the isolation of hot and cold Zero-power green testing system: The system can be air in the equipment room to achieve accurate cooling. used to run the full-capacity testing of new data center equipment rooms, to avoid the overheating problem associated with full-capacity operation. 49 Regarding the use of renewable energy, we actively promote the use of alternative new energy sources, such as solar energy, wind energy, water energy, hydrogen energy, etc. in areas with rich natural resources but insufficient supply of traditional energy. Xinyu Branch of our Jiangxi subsidiary utilized its unused rooftop space and built a 105kWp distributed solar power generation system, which generated 82,000 kWhs of power in 2019. Regarding the construction of 5G base stations, we studied the energy consumption of 5G network in advance, and upgraded our enterprise equipment energy conservation grading standards accordingly during the early stage of network construction. In Jiangsu, we innovatively applied the liquid cooling technology, which could significantly reduce the PUE of base station to around 1.1, saving as much as 35% of energy compared with traditional base stations. At the 2019 Information and Communication Industry Conference on Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction, the 5G liquid cooling node technology was the only application technology of the Company selected for sharing, showcasing our leadership in the green application of 5G network. In 2019, the Company had zero violation of environmental laws and regulations. Driving Value Chain Green Transformation While continuously developing and applying advanced energy-saving technologies, we are also committed to driving the green transformation of our value chain. Green Procurement Green Packaging In 2019, our paperless bidding process ran smoothly, achieving an annuWe cooperated with Apple Inc. to impleal paperless rate of 99.9% of all biddings. We continue to apply energy ment the mixed pallet upgrade project. conservation grading standards, energy-saving technical requirements During the initial sales of iPhone 11 series and green packaging grading standards for communication products in products, we upgraded the single-layer, our equipment bidding and procurement. We also gave greater priority single-model and mixed pallet model to to energy conservation at the source, and significantly increased the the single-layer, multi-model, multi-cateweight of energy conservation performance in the technological assessgory and mixed pallet model, using 15% ment of the centralized procurement of 5G wireless equipment. less wood pallets. Meanwhile, our green At the annual supplier reception day event, we focused on the theme packaging rate of newly procured main of “Building a Green Supply Chain”, publicized the green development equipment reached 69%, saving 164,000 concept to our suppliers, and shared with them our excellent cases to cubic meters of timber resources. encourage them to work together with us to build a green planet for all. Reusing Optical Modems to Promote the Circular Economy Optical modem is a low value optical fiber transmission equipment widely used in the installation of fiber optical broadband equipment. Retired optical modems are usually disposed of as waste. Our Hubei subsidiary launched the Optical Modem Recycle, Refurbish and Reuse project, established a dedicated team overseeing the process and a standard operation procedure manual that covers the entire process including code-scanning recycle registration, sorting and testing, cleaning, repairing, refurbishing, labeling and packaging. We also formulated quality inspection standards to ensure that the refurbished optical modems could function properly. As of the end of 2019, we had delivered 387,600 refurbished optical modems and 180,000 set top boxes, saving RMB62.16 million from the purchase of optical modem and auxiliary supplies. Managing Water Resources Consumption The water used in our daily office and production operations mainly comes from centralized municipal water supplies. We do not have any risk of water resources. We strictly abide by the relevant requirements of the Water Law of China and the Water Pollution Control Law of China , advocate water conservation, strictly control sewage discharge, and strive to reduce water consumption. In 2019, we continued to strengthen water management of equipment rooms, management facilities and stores. Our Ningxia subsidiary adopted wastewater recycling and reuse technology to treat and recycle the wastewater generated in the production center, and used it as supplementary water sources for vegetation irrigation and toilet flushing, reusing nearly 10,000 tonnes of wastewater on average each year. 50 Summary of Our Key Performances Our Achievements in 2019 Leveraged our expertise to innovate on ecological and environmental information applications. Established the China Mobile Leading Group for Pollution Prevention and Energy Conservation, continued to implement the Green Action Plan, and further optimized our environmental management system. Reduced our annual overall energy consumption per unit of information flow by 43% through measures such as energy saving renovations, innovative environmental applications and improvement in green operation. Implemented green procurement and promoted the green development of the supply chain, and increased our green packaging rate of newly procured main equipment to 69%. Reduced annual power consumption by 2.21 billion kWhs, equivalent to the reduction of 1.415 million tonnes of GHG emissions. Awarded the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Global Leadership Level Company on climate change, and was one of the top-rated companies in Mainland China. Our Goals for 2020 and Beyond To explore the means and ways to apply 5G technology for environmental protection, and continuously innovate on Summary of Our Key Performances environmental applications. To reduce the overall energy consumption per unit of information flow by 15% and the overall energy consumption per unit of telecom business by 10% by 2020; to achieve a 60% or higher ratio of green packaging usage by 2020. To continue to promote green procurement and green logistics management, and establish a green supply chain system covering the whole procurement process, realizing fully paperless and electronic procurement in the next three years; to formulate scientific energy conservation and environmental protection targets, and encourage suppliers to enhance their social responsibility awareness; to promote the full-process application of green packaging, continue to strengthen reverse logistics, explore Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) embedded packaging, and realize the traceability of the whole process. To ensure that the year-on-year growth rate of our overall energy consumption and the year-on-year growth rate of our carbon emissions are lower than the growth rate of our network (connection) scale in the next five years. Key Performance Indicators Environmental Investment Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Investment in Green Action Coal gas consumption 1.4 1.9 1.6 0.10 0.05 0.08 Plan (RMB100 million) (million m3) LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 3.1 2.7 2.3 Energy Indirect Energy Use Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Total electricity 223.3 244.7 264.0 consumption (100 GWhs) Direct Energy Use Purchased heating costs 160.9 123.4 157.9 Coal consumption (RMB million) 0.1 0.2 0.05 (10,000 tonnes) Energy Savings Gasoline consumption 121.5 112.4 101.3 Total annual electricity (million liters) 21.4 26.6 22.1 savings (100 GWhs) Diesel fuel consumption 19.4 14.8 13.1 Equivalent annual cost (million liters) 28.9 37.7 21.6 savings (RMB100 million) Natural gas consumption 7.9 11.2 11.0 (million m3) 51 Waste Management 1.2.3 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2019 Equivalent annual GHG emission Non-hazardous solid waste produced (10,000 tonnes) 7.14 148.5 170.6 141.5 reduction (10,000 tonnes) Overall energy consumption per unit Non-hazardous waste produced (10,000 tonnes) 4.52 of telecom business (kg standard coal/ 21 10 6 Electronic waste produced (10,000 tonnes) 2.62 RMB10,000) Non-hazardous General solid waste comprehensively Percentage decrease of overall energy 7.21 utilized (10,000 tonnes) consumption per unit of telecom business 29 53 40 (%) Comprehensive utilization rate of non-hazardous solid 93.93 waste 4 (%) Reduction in overall energy consumption 40 57 43 per unit of information flow (%) Non-hazardous solid waste intensity (kg/RMB10,000) 0.96 Hazardous waste produced (10,000 tonnes) 1.89 Emissions Hazardous waste disposed (10,000 tonnes) 2.17 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous waste disposal rate 5 (%) 84.30 1 CO2 emissions (million tonnes) 15.98 16.17 17.32 Hazardous waste intensity (kg/RMB10,000) 0.25 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (million 0.33 0.31 0.28 tonnes) Notes: 1. In 2019, we updated and standardized the scope for the statistics of Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 15.65 15.86 17.04 different types of solid waste in accordance with the requirements of (million tonnes) the Notification on Issuing the Statistical Report on Energy ConservaCarbon emission intensity tion and Ecological Environmental Protection of Central Enterprises of 0.216 0.219 0.232 (tCO2e/ RMB10,000) SASAC. We will disclose new indicators on a rolling basis every year. 2. Our operation generates three types of solid wastes: non-hazardous SO2 emissions 2 (tonnes) 23.59 35.93 9.28 waste, electronic waste and hazardous waste. 3. Non-hazardous waste mainly includes domestic waste, food waste, ofCarbon emission from commute 37.79 39.45 50.77 fice and marketing waste paper or packaging, construction waste, etc. (10,000 tonnes) Electronic waste mainly includes electronic components and equipment Carbon emission from business travel replaced from base stations and equipment rooms, and retired office 29.44 7.10 8.19 (10,000 tonnes) equipment such as printers, copiers, fax machines and computers. Hazardous waste mainly includes bare circuit boards and batteries reNotes: tired from base stations and equipment rooms, printer cartridges, ink 1. CO2 is the only type of GHGs generated in our operations, and over cartridges and fluorescent tubes from offices, and damaged or retired 95% of our CO2 emissions are from the use of electricity. CO2 emissmart terminals such as mobile phones, batteries and SIM cards. We sions are calculated mainly in accordance with the Guidelines for Nasell most of our waste to qualified third parties recycling companies for tional Greenhouse Gas Inventories published by IPCC in 2006, and the 4. disposal. baseline emission factors for the China regional grid published by the The comprehensive utilization rate of non-hazardous solid waste refers National Development and Reform Commission in 2017. to the ratio of the amount of non-hazardous solid comprehensively 2. SO2 is the only type of air emissions generated in our operations, mainutilized within the reporting period minus the storage capacity of comly from coal burning in certain regions. prehensive utilization in the past year, to the amount of non-hazardous solid waste generated. In 2019, our comprehensive utilization from the 5. previous year was approximately 5,100 tonnes. Water Use The disposal rate of hazardous waste refers to the ratio of the volume of hazardous waste disposed minus the storage volume of hazardous Indicators 2017 2018 2019 waste from the previous year, to the amount of hazardous waste genTotal amount of water consumption erated in the reporting period. In 2019, our hazardous waste disposal 42.24 35.12 36.29 storage volume from the past year was approximately 5,800 tonnes. （million tonnes） Green Operations Water consumption per capita (tonnes) 91 76 80 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Raw Materials Use Number of video conferences usage at 882 970 1,184 group level Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Online sales volume (RMB100 million) 4,648 4,785 5,635 Total amount of resources used for 8,847 9,394 12,396 Number of online e-procurement appr. appr. appr. producing devices (tonnes) projects in the year (10,000) 3.8 1.0 3.4 Reduction of paper-based documents appr. appr. appr. with the wholly electronic procurement 61.6 14.1 48.0 process (10,000 copies) 52 Feature: Responsible Operations Risk Management China Mobile has established a three-tiered risk management structure consisting of the Board of Directors, functional departments and functional positions to realize the specialized management of the whole process. For detailed information on the Company’s risk management, please refer to the Risk Management and Internal Controls section in the Corporate Governance Report from China Mobile Limited’s 2019 Annual Report. Board of Directors Functional Departments Functional Positions The Board of Directors has an Risk management execution Each department has dedicated Audit Committee, which is departments and supervision depositions and personnel that responsible for overseeing the partments perform their respective are responsible for the impleCompany’s financial reporting duties: the Department of Finance mentation and regular supervisystem, risk management and intakes the lead in organizing and sion and inspection of specific ternal control procedures, moncarrying out various internal internal control systems, while itoring the integrity of financial control and risk management the Risk Management Expert statements, the annual reports work; business departments are Bank is responsible for the and accounts, interim report and responsible for the internal control research and planning on genquarterly reports of the Comand risk management work in eral or specific internal control pany, and reviewing significant specialized areas; and the Internal and risk management issues of financial reporting judgments Audit Department is responsible the Company. contained in them, etc. for supervising and evaluating the effectiveness of internal control Feature: Responsible Operations design and implementation. The Company continuously optimizes its risk assessment mechanism focusing on our development strategy and business objectives, and carries out risk assessment at three levels to improve the accuracy and timeliness of risk forecast. The major risks are assessed annually and semi-annually, and forecasts of possible future major risks are Strategy made comprehensively based on internal and external situations the Company faces. A comprehensive risk management report is prepared annually. Carry out pilot assessment of the specific risks of major projects, and the functional department in charge is required to develop an assessment report of the specific risks before making decisions on maBusiness jor projects to prevent decision-making risks. Conduct regular internal control and risk assessment of existing business system processes or IT systems, Process and carry out risk assessment before the release or launch of new systems, processes and mechanisms to ensure ”compliance on release”. Regarding internal audit, the Internal Audit Departments of the Company and its operating subsidiaries are responsible for providing independent and objective confirmation of and consultation on the appropriateness, compliance and effectiveness of various business activities and the internal control and risk management of the Company, and assisting the Company in improving its corporate governance, risk management and control process. In 2019, we further intensified the audit and supervision on the areas related to the business and home markets, customer rights, key costs and expenses, system management and control, etc., to ensure the effectiveness of our cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts and prevent business risks. We also further optimized our audit and rectification management mechanism with a new Smart Audit Cloud Hub and an improved “remote + onsite” holographic interactive smart audit model. Meanwhile, we have established a hierarchical, multi-type training system for backbone internal control and risk management employees, prefecture-level financial managers and backbone financial employees, new financial employees, employees of all business lines and internal auditors, striving to create a risk management culture with the full participation of all employees. 53 Compliance Management China Mobile has established a compliance management system with a top-down design and focusing on the following four aspects. Organization Culture Our parent company established the China Mobile Compliance Our parent company joined the China Enterprise CompliCommittee with the Chairman as the committee head. Its General ance Promotion Alliance as a vice-chairman member. Counsel serves as the head of the Office of the Compliance Set up a Compliance Escort online learning section at the Committee, who is responsible for overseeing the building of online university of the Company, with a total participacompliance management system, handling major compliance tion of over 3,400,000 person-times. incidents and risk prevention, and leading the office to provide expert opinions before making major business decisions in relation to Organized nearly a thousand training sessions on comantitrust, anti-unfair competition as well as tendering and bidding. pliance issues in relation to key areas such as Foreign Investment Law , network security, market competition, Continuously deepened the Compliance Escort Plan to ensure the and bidding and procurement. compliance of our business operations. Process System Formulated the China Mobile Compliance Management Report , Conducted compliance review prior to actions such as summarizing our compliance management conditions and devising major marketing strategies and entering into putting forward the requirements for compliance management. major contracts, and conducted compliance review on major business activities such as transferring between Developed a series of compliance policies to provide guidance operators with the same number, online privacy policies, for frontline employees, including the Guide for Intellectual and sharing of business partners’ information. Property Rights Compliance and the Compliance Guide for Business Partners . Conducted due diligence on issues in relation to network and information security in procurement projects to efImproved intellectual property management with various fectively prevent compliance risks. efforts, including organizing the Intellectual Property Awareness Week activities for 10 consecutive years, organizing intellectual Launched the Hebao intelligent dialogue robot and big property training, issuing special analysis reports on intellectual data visualization analysis and intelligent search functions property cases, trademarks and brands, and compiling the book, in the contract management system. Compliance and Data: Using Big Data for Compliance . Integrity and Anti-corruption China Mobile actively upholds the healthy culture of hard work and integrity, adheres to the principles of openness and transparency in the operations, and continues to strengthen its anti-corruption efforts. Started organizational preparation for establishing the Office of Anti-Corruption Leading Group and initiated a new round of signing procedures of Business Integrity Pledge . Organizational Deepened the implementation of the embedded integrity corruption risk prevention and control mechanism Support and adjusted the 2019 performance evaluation indicators for embedded prevention work, urging the responsible departments to actively reflect on and examine themselves to identify any problems. Working Style Issued the Notice on the Work Progress of the Centralized Rectification of Formalism and Bureaucracy Construction which formulated nearly 4,000 rectification measures focusing on 1,540 issues. Issued the Provisions on Maintaining Record of China Mobile Senior Management Interfering with Major System Matters (Trial) to ensure that the senior management exercise their power in compliance with laws and Optimization regulations with fairness and integrity. Launched the Anti-corruption and Integrity Awareness Month, organized 4,960 education activities covering over 90% of the employees; encouraged employees to record their learning experiences with reference to their own position and to give integrity commitment, and organized field trips for employees to anti-corruption education centers, thereby improving the effectiveness of anti-corruption education. Anti-corruption Built a defense line against corruption by posting key learning content and best practice cases in various Education channels, including the web page of the Office of Discipline Inspection and Supervision, China Mobile Online University and MIGU reading. Sent out pop-up anti-corruption alerts before festivals to remind employees to strictly abide by integrity requirements. Established multiple whistleblowing channels for corruption reporting, including mail, email, telephone hotline, onsite communication, the CEO Mailbox, etc. Protected the legitimate rights of whistleblowers, with confidentiality given to the reported issues, the Whistleblowing status of the investigation, and the relevant information of the whistleblowers. Received a total of 1,730 whistleblowing cases, handled 393 corruption cases, and took disciplinary actions 54 for 516 person-times in 2019. Supply Chain Management Supply chain management is a key component of our sustainability management. Insisting on responsible procurement, China Mobile has been continuously standardizing its procurement process and procurement audit, and achieved the overall management of the whole procurement process, fulfilling the social responsibilities jointly with its supply chain partners. Procurement Transparency Adhering to the principle of “procurement under sunshine”, we require all business units to set up dedicated procurement facilities with audio and video recording equipment, allowing online supervision and inspection of all procurement processes. As of the end of 2019, we had set up 791 dedicated bidding facilities nationwide, and completed the closed bidding evaluation of 9,065 projects, preliminarily realizing the whole process supervision of key procurement processes. To ensure the fairness and transparency of the procurement environment, we continued to carry out a series of information disclosures of the first-level suppliers, including supplier performance evaluation result, comprehensive inspection information, and rectification of negative findings. Suppliers can use the China Mobile Procurement and Tendering Portal to access their supplier evaluation results, the rectification result of negative findings, and the timely notification of their updated performance evaluation result. In 2019, together with some of our partners, we jointly launched the Procurement Under Sunshine Together business integrity event. We revised the Business Integrity Pledge to specify the disciplinary actions for violations. We also launched the online signing function of the Business Integrity Pledge to make the procurement process more efficient and convenient. Promoting Compliance of Suppliers We published the China Mobile Suppliers Cooperation Guidelines on our own procurement website portal, explicitly requiring our suppliers to fulfil their responsibilities, including: actively fulfilling the obligations of paying social security and tax; abiding by laws and regulations on lawful hiring, labor protection, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and environmental protection; forbidding the use of child labor as defined by law, the use of forced labor, and the physical abuse of employees; prohibiting any form of unlawful discrimination; complying with national laws and regulations regarding salary, benefits, working hours, working overtime, health and safety conditions; and complying with all applicable environmental protection regulations. Feature: Responsible Operations We assess suppliers’ overall capacities based on the criteria in the certificates of SA 8000 (Social Accountability), OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) and ISO 14000 (environmental management standards). In 2019, we required the verification of the SA8000, OHSAS18001 and ISO14000 certificates submitted by the suppliers as part of the preliminary certification inspection process for suppliers of key products. For suppliers of certain products, we also required onsite inspection to ensure that their environmental protection measures were properly implemented. Supply Chain Management Compliance and Anti-corruption Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Number of centralized Number of Board Meetings 8,039 7,216 12,278 4 4 5 procurement suppliers in the year Number of first-level Number of anti-corruption 571 480 897 suppliers 1 education activities in the 3,580 3,717 4,960 Percentage of first-level year 100 100 100 local suppliers 2 Coverage rate of Number of second-level 7,468 6,736 11,930 anti-corruption education >90 >90 >90 suppliers activities Percentage of second-level 55.69 80.35 55.20 Participation of local suppliers 3 Number of assessments on anti-corruption education 2,417 2,194 2,268 722,720 759,810 915,527 first-level suppliers 4 and trainings (person-times) Percentage of confirmed first-level suppliers 100 100 100 Number of corruption cases 275 321 393 assessed disciplined in the year Number of onsite supplier Number of employees — 674 1,330 assessments conducted dismissed and disciplined 414 433 516 for corruption in the year Notes: (person-times) 1. In 2019, the statistical scope of suppliers was changed from the number of centralized procurement suppliers to the number of suppliers with Number of petitions 1,240 1,263 1,730 active procurement activities during the year. received in the year 2. Percentage of first-level local suppliers means the proportion of domestic suppliers (registered in Mainland China) among all suppliers for first-level procurement. 3. Percentage of second-level local suppliers means the proportion of local suppliers (registered in the province to which the China Mobile provincial subsidiary belongs) among all suppliers for second-level procurement. 4. The number of supplier assessments carried out by our Procurement 55 Shared Service Center, covering both winning and non-winning suppliers, does not include second-level procurement. Sustainability Management Since 2006, China Mobile has been managing its corporate social responsibility (CSR) practice in a strategic way in joint connection with its corporate strategy and operation. We have developed a 4-module strategic CSR management system covering strategy, implementation, performance and communication. In 2019, we further streamlined the scope of each CSR management module in accordance with the “3 steps and 10 methods” requirements for CSR management. Sustainability Steering Committee and relevant Strategy organizational structure Mission, vision and responsibility Management CSR strategy and planning CSR management system and special policies Establishing the CSR mega-team CSR research and training to raise awareness Implementation Identifying, managing and information tracking of Management material CSR issues Integrating CSR into corporate management and China Mobile decision-making mechanism Sustainability Management System Integrating CSR into strategic performance Performance management Management Best CSR practices selection Preparing, releasing and distribution of the Communication sustainability report Management Engaging stakeholders through various platforms and channels Strategy Management Adhering to our CSR philosophy of “With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility”, our parent company established the CSR Steering Committee in 2008 (name changed to Sustainability Steering Committee in 2016) and a three-layer CSR management system of decision-making, organization and implementation. Meanwhile, we formulated management policies such as the China Mobile CSR Management Measures and the China Mobile Annual Best CSR Practices Selection and Reward Determination , to enhance our CSR management improvement and further standardize the system and process requirements of CSR management. Headed by the Chairman of the Company and consists of all departments of our headquarters and relevant business units; reviews and makes decisions on the Company’s CSR strategy, goals, plans and specific key issues, especially ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) related issues. DecisionMaking Belongs to the Department of Development StratSustainability egy at the headquarters; responsible for leading, Steering Committee organizing and coordinating CSR practice of functional departments and subsidiaries, promoting ESG management, and ensuring the realization of relevant sustainability plans and targets. Organization Sustainability Office Functional departments at headquarters manage the closed-loop management of strategy, implementation and evaluation regarding the specific sustainability issues according to their respective Implementation functions, and organize the assessment of and response to related key ESG issues. Functional departments Subsidiaries The strategy department of each subsidiary is responsible for advancing the CSR implementation with the support of a virtual team, coordinates the CSR practice, and engages in communication 56 with key stakeholders. Implementation Management The Company continued to deepen the capacity building for its sustainability performance. Please see page 59 for the process of CSR team with regular internal trainings to help functional dehow we identified our material sustainability issues of 2019 and partments and business units learn about the latest requirements the results. and trends of sustainable development, and enhance the sustainRegarding the implementation process, the Company continued ability awareness of all employees. In 2019, the total participato deepen the involvement of senior management in sustaintion of our CSR training activities reached 418,500 person-times. ability related matters. In addition to the establishment and We continued the management of sustainability related issues, operation of the Sustainability Steering Committee, our annual conducted research and surveys on stakeholders, and studied the sustainability report is required to be formally reviewed and apevolution of key sustainability standards at home and abroad, the proved by senior management and the Board of Directors of the best practice of our industry peers, and hot issues in relation to Company. Meanwhile, we have also strengthened the horizontal sustainability. Based on these, we identified our annual material coordination across functional departments with clearly defined sustainability issues, and took the opportunity of collecting informanagement responsibility over the relevant key CSR issues, fully mation for our annual sustainability report to improve our manincorporating CSR into their core operations. agement and disclosure of key sustainability issues as well as our Performance Management The Company organized the annual Best CSR Practice Selection a book containing all the selected CSR best practice cases since for the 12th consecutive year, inviting internal and external 2013, New Era, New Connectivity, New Responsibility: Selected experts to sit on the annual review panel. Over the last 12 selecBest CSR Practice of China Mobile (2013-2018) . These cases tions, we have received more than 820 CSR cases, 184 of which present an overview of China Mobile’s practice, explorations and won an award. The selection has effectively encouraged our subaccomplishments in fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities Sustainability Management sidiaries to innovate on CSR practices. In 2019, we also published with a focus on connectivity. Communication Management In 2019, the Company prepared and released its 13th sustaingeneral managers of our prefecture-level branch companies and ability report. Not only did we fully comply with the requirements over 37,000 person-times of customers participated. for ESG information disclosure, we also practiced our CSR in inIn addition, we also actively participated in the revision of susnovative forms such as promotional clips and short videos, which tainability standards, communicated and shared our experience created a record-high online views of over 18 million. with our industry peers, and strove to further improve the CSR The Company attaches great importance to the concerns of our management and performance jointly with our industry peers. stakeholders and has established a variety of communication We carried out over 40 major communication activities during channels in accordance with their expectations. In 2019, we orthe year. ganized the third “CSR Communication Day” event to listen to Please see page 58 for the concerns and communication chanthe opinions and suggestions of our wide range of stakeholders nels of our stakeholders. on our CSR activities. CSR communication activities were organized at 3,184 self-operated China Mobile stores, where 1,508 Indicators 2017 2018 2019 CSR trainings participation (person-times) 471,669 447,006 418,507 Number of emails received in CEO Mailbox 1,279 1,315 903 Number of customer visits on Customer Day (person-times) 102,060 138,301 141,627 Number of complaint and inquiry cases handled on Customer Day 91,960 118,304 126,509 57 Stakeholder Engagements We have established a variety of communication channels and maintained regular communication with 6 groups of stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders and investors, government and regulators, value chain partners, and community and environmental organizations. When preparing this report, we used questionnaires to identify sustainability issues that concerned different stakeholder groups, and then determined areas to be disclosed in the report based on a materiality analysis. Key Issues of Concern (Top 5)* Examples of Communication Channels 1. Customer Reception 5. Customer Day Satisfaction Surveys 2. 10086 Hotline 6. Mobile APP 3. Weibo and WeChat 7. CEO Mailbox 1. Network Quality Interactions 2.Information Security and Privacy 4. Online and Mobile Protection Customer Service Platforms 3. Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 4. 5G Development 1. Information Security and Privacy 1. Employee 4. MMS Magazine 5. Corporate Governance and Protection Representative Mobile Weekly Risk Management 2. Network Quality Conferences 5. Employee Recognition 3. Service Quality and Customer 2. Regular Trainings Mechanism Rights Protection 3. Performance 6. Employee Complaint 4. 5G Development Communication Mechanism 5. Corporate Governance and Mechanism 7. CEO Mailbox Customers Risk Management Employees 1. Information Security and Privacy Protection 2. Network Quality 1. Annual Reports, Interim Reports and 3. Corporate Governance and Risk Announcements Management 2. General Meeting 4. Financial Performance and Tax Payment 3. Investor Briefings and Conferences Shareholders and Investors 5. Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection Stakeholders 1. Information Security and Privacy Protection Government and 2. Network Quality 1. Regular Reports and Communication Regulators 3. Service Quality and Customer 2. Specific Investigation and Meetings Rights Protection 3. Relevant Forums 4. 5G Development 4. CEO Mailbox 5. Corporate Governance and Risk Management Value Chain Partners Community and 1. Network Quality Environmental 2. Information Security and Privacy 1. Procurement Organizations Protection 2. Suppliers Web Portal, Service Sites and 3. Service Quality and Customer Supplier Hotline Rights Protection 3. Training and Assessment 4. Forums and Meetings 4. 5G Development 5. CEO Mailbox 5. Corporate Governance and 1. Information Security and Privacy Protection 2. Network Quality 3. Service Quality and Customer Rights Protection 1. Community Activities 4. Integrity and Anti-corruption 2. Mass Media 5. 5G Development 3. Weibo and WeChat 4. Charity Platform 5. CEO Mailbox *Note: The top 5 key issues of concern of each stakeholder group come from the results of the stakeholder survey in relation to the materiality analysis. Please refer to the materiality analysis on page 59. 58 Materiality Analysis In 2019, based on the materiality analysis of various sustainability issues, we evaluated the degree of impact being brought on stakeholders by economic, environmental and social issues, and the importance of these issues to China Mobile, and identified issues of the high materiality to be highlighted in this report. Based on the analysis and conclusion during the identification stage, this year we have added three issues: “5G development”, “social ICT solutions”, and “environmental ICT solutions”. We have also made adjustment to three issues, replacing “anti-corruption and compliance” with “integrity and anti-corruption”, “carbon emissions reduction” with “coping with climate change”, and “employee health and safety” with “employee rights and interests protection”. There is no significant change regarding the reporting scope of each issue. Very High 1 2 Identification 01 3 International standard benchmarking 4 HKEx ESG Reporting Degree of the Issue’s Impact 12 6 5 Guide 15 14 10 19 11 7 GRI standards 13 8 16 UN SDGs 18 9 on the Stakeholders UNGC Ten Principles 17 20 Analysis of key sustainability issues and key industry issues Corporate strategy analysis Degree of the Issue’s Importance Very High Sustainability Management to China Mobile Materiality No. Issue Page(s) Boundary Service Quality and Customer Customers, government and regulators, 1 10-11,22-27 community and environmental Rights Protection Evaluation 02 Information Security and organizations Customers, government and regulators, Very High 2 24,26-27 community and environmental Privacy Protection organizations Customers, value chain partners, Using online questionnaires, we 3 Network Quality 10-14,26-27 community and environmental organizations carried out the key stakeholder Customers, government and regulators, survey with respect to the degree 4 5G Development 6-7,18-21 value chain partners, community and environmental organizations of impact of sustainability issues 5 R&D and Innovations 16-17,26-27 Customers, government and regulators, value chain partners on stakeholders, collecting 3,901 valid questionnaires in total. 6 Integrity and Anti-corruption 54-55 Customers, government and regulators, value chain partners With reference to industry pracCustomers, government and regulators, 7 Social ICT Solutions 11,18-21 value chain partners, community and tices, we teamed up internal environmental organizations and external experts to evaluate Corporate Governance and Customers, shareholders and investors, 8 4,53-55 government and regulators Risk Management the importance of different Financial Performance and Tax Shareholders and investors, government sustainability issues to China 9 4 and regulators Payment Mobile’s operations. Customers, government and regulators, 10 Environmental ICT Solutions 44-47 value chain partners, community and environmental organizations High 11 Human Resource Development 38-40,43 Customers, shareholders and investors Employee Rights and Interests 12 10,37,41-43 Customers, value chain partners Protection Fair Employment and Non13 37,42-43 Customers, value chain partners Report Preparation 03 discrimination Reducing Environmental Customers, employees, government and 14 48-52 regulators, value chain partners Resource Use Customers, employees, shareholders and 15 Stakeholder Engagement 58 investors, government and regulators, value chain partners, community and A materiality matrix was formed environmental organizations (see the chart right) to highlight 16 Public Welfare 28-34,42-43 Customers, community and environmental organizations issues to be prioritized in the re17 Coping with Climate Change 48-52 Customers, employees, government and port. regulators, value chain partners 18 Supply Chain Management 50,55 Value chain partners, community and environmental organizations Moderate 19 Waste Management 50,52 Customers, employees, value chain partners Offshore Compliance 20 of Corporate Social Responsibilities 36 Customers, value chain partners 59 Independent Assurance Report 安永華明（2020）專字第 60688545_A01 號 To the Board of China Mobile Limited: I. Scope of Our Engagement The 2019 Sustainability Report (the ”Sustainability Report”) of Environmental indicators China Mobile Limited (the ”Company”) has been prepared by the Company. Management of the company (the ”Management”) Total electricity consumption is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the GRI Standards issued by the Global Sustainability StanNatural gas consumption dards Board (GSSB), in accordance with the criteria selected by the Company. Management is also responsible for maintaining LPG consumption adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting process. Coal gas consumption Our responsibility is to carry out limited assurance procedures Coal consumption over key social responsibility performance indicators for the year ended 31 December 2019 and to issue the assurance statement Gasoline consumption in accordance with the ”International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Diesel fuel consumption Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (ISAE3000), based on the Management’s instructions and as agreed with Management CO2 emissions in our terms of reference signed in August 2018. Our work was limited to these stated above and our report is Carbon emission from business travel made solely to you, as a body, and for no other purpose. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other Carbon emission from commute purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Sustainability Report is entirely Number of video conferences usage at group level as its own risk. Social indicators II. Work Performed Our review has been planned and performed in accordance with Number of spam messages report handled ISAE3000. In order to form our conclusions, we carried out the Number of emergency support following procedures: According to the Managements instructions, we performed limitNumber of emergency support vehicles deployed ed assurance procedures in: Number of emergency support equipment installed The limited assurance procedures were performed over the following key performance indicators in the Sustainability Report Number of person-times involved in emergency for the year ended 31 December 2019: support Economic indicators Number of principals of rural primary and secondary Number of first-level suppliers schools trained newly added Number of second-level suppliers Number of assisted children in poverty who suffered from congenital heart disease newly added Percentage of first-level local suppliers Number of person-times trained Percentage of second-level local suppliers Percentage of female employees Number of assessments on first-level suppliers Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees Number of administrative villages with broadband service newly launched in the ”Universal TelecommunicaTotal number of newly hired employees tions Service Project” Total number of resigned employees Total number of dismissed employees 60 安永華明（2020）專字第 60688545_A01 號 In preparing the above key performance indicators, China Mobile V. Our Conclusions applied the criteria in GRI Standards issued by the Global SustainSubject to the limitations of scope and based on the procedures ability Standards Board (GSSB). specified above for this limited assurance engagement, we proA limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, vided the following conclusions: primarily of persons responsible for preparing the key perforNothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that mance indicators subject to assurance, and applying analytical the selected indicators were not presented fairly in all material reand other limited assurance procedures. spects in the 2019 Sustainability Report of China Mobile Limited, The limited assurance procedures performed included, but were in accordance with the criteria defined above. not limited to: VI. Our Independence Interviewing the company's management and staffs We are in compliance with the Ernst & Young Global Indepenresponsible for the selected key performance informadence Policy which was designed to comply with the requiretion; ments of the IFAC Codes of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the IFAC Code). We believe that there were no events or prohibPerforming analytical review procedures; ited services provided which could impair our independence. Independent Assurance Report Performing sample inspection on the selected key perVII. Our Assurance Team formance information; Our assurance team has been drawn from our sustainability Performing recalculation procedures on the selected assurance service network, which undertakes similar engagekey performance information; ments to this with a number of domestic or international businesses. Our assurance team has met the requirements of Other procedures we considered necessary. competence and work experience of this engagement. III. Limitations of Our Scope Our scope of work did not include: Assessing the accuracy or fairness of information (including financial information) other than the selected Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP key performance information. Reviewing the forward-looking statements made by the Management. Reviewing and consequently providing assurance on Beijing, PRC historical data. March 25, 2020 IV. Level of Assurance Our evidence gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which to base our conclusion. The procedures conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required in a reasonable assurance engagement and,accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion or an audit opinion. While we considered the effectiveness of the Management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. 61 About This Report This report is the 14th Sustainability Report of China Mobile Data and Information Disclosure Limited. The report discloses relevant information about our The main channels for the collection of data and information in economic, social, and environmental sustainability performance. 2019 Report include: We report annually on our sustainability performance. Unless otherwise stated, the time span of this report is from January 1, Relevant data collection systems and statistical state2019 to December 31, 2019. Our last Sustainability Report was ments of the Company published in March 2019. CSR practice cases submitted by provincial subsidiaries every quarter Report Form Cases received during the 2019 Best CSR Practices Report language: This report is published in both Chicompetition nese and English. Should there be any inconsistencies Questionnaires developed to collect qualitative and between the Chinese version and the English version, quantitative information based on the report framethe Chinese version shall prevail. work Report version: This report is presented in both printing and online versions (read and download the report at Report Assurance www.chinamobileltd.com). In 2019, China Mobile contracted Ernst & Young (special general partnership) to provides independent third-party assurance Reporting Standards service for this report. Please see pages 60-61 for the Assurance Report. The Company’s 2019 Annual Report contains details The report has been prepared to comply with globally recognized regarding audited financial statements and other financial perbenchmarks for disclosure of sustainability information while formance and operating performance for the year ended on Dehighlighting the industry background and China Mobile’s unique cember 31, 2019, and can be downloaded from the Company’s characteristics. In 2019, we mainly referred to the following stanwebsite at www.chinamobileltd.com. dards: Report Theme and Design Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx) Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide The theme of the report is ”5G+ Infinite Future”. It conveys our responsibility concept of China Mobile leverages its expertise United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Developand works together with its stakeholders to build a smart society ment and create a shared better future. It symbolizes our ambition to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards by the Global integrate 5G into every industry and every walk of life and create Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) shared value for society. On the center of report cover is a ”5G+” Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact logo together with a design of the ”infinite” symbol that connects a variety of scenarios, representing our founding aspiration ISO Guideline on Social Responsibilities (ISO 26000) to ”Communicate a Boundless World and Construct an InformaChinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 4.0) tion Society”, indicating the broad space and infinite possibilities issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences for the Company to innovate social values in the 5G era. China Mobile has complied with the ”comply or explain” provisions set forth in the HKEx Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide, and this report has been prepared in accordance with the core option of the GRI Standards. Report Content and Boundary In accordance with the principle of ”stakeholder engagement, sustainability context, materiality and completeness”, China Mobile determined materiality issues and their boundary through Feedback materiality analysis (See page 59 for the process and result of the Should you have any feedback or suggestions, please materiality analysis.) kindly send it to us through the channels listed below. Reporting Scope We will take your comments seriously and promise not to disclose your information to any unauthorized third party. Unless otherwise specified, all cases and data in this report are from China Mobile Limited and its subsidiaries. E-mail: CR@chinamobile.com Fax: +86-10-52616167 Currency Scan the QR code to fill the online Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this feedback form report are expressed in RMB (yuan). 62 Report Disclosure Indexes HKEx Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide Subject Areas and General Disclosures and KPIs Page(s) Aspects A. Environmental General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to air and greenhouse 48-52 gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of hazardous and nonhazardous waste. KPI A1.1: The types of emissions and respective emissions data. 52 KPI A1.2: Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity 52 Aspect A1： (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). Emissions KPI A1.3: Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity 52 (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). KPI A1.4: Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, 52 intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). KPI A1.5: Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved. 48-52 KPI A1.6: Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, 50,52 Report Disclosure Indexes reduction initiatives and results achieved. General Disclosure: Policies on the efficient use of resources, including energy, water and 48,50 other raw materials. KPI A2.1: Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kWh in '000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per 51-52 facility). Aspect A2: KPI A2.2: Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, 52 per facility). Use of Resources KPI A2.3: Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved. 48-52 KPI A2.4: Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for 50,52 purpose, water efficiency initiatives and results achieved. KPI A2.5: Total packaging material used for finished products (in tonnes) and, if 52 applicable, with reference to per unit produced. Aspect A3: General Disclosure: Policies on minimizing the issuer's significant impact on the 48-50 environment and natural resources. The Environment and Natural KPI A3.1: Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and 48-51 Resources natural resources and the actions taken to manage them. B. Social Employment and Labor Practices General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to compensation and dismissal, recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest 37 periods, equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination, and other benefits and Aspect B1: welfare. Employment KPI B1.1: Total workforce by gender, employment type, age group and geographical 42-43 region. KPI B1.2: Employee turnover rate by gender, age group and geographical region. 43 63 Subject Areas and General Disclosures and KPIs Page(s) Aspects General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to providing a safe working 37,41 environment and protecting employees from occupational hazards. Aspect B2: KPI B2.1: Number and rate of work-related fatalities. 43 Health and Safety KPI B2.2: Lost days due to work injury. 43 KPI B2.3: Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, how they are 10,37,43 implemented and monitored. General Disclosure: Policies on improving employees' knowledge and skills for discharging 38-40 duties at work. Description of training activities. Aspect B3: KPI B3.1: The percentage of employees trained by gender and employee category (e.g. Development and 43 senior management, middle management). Training KPI B3.2: The average training hours completed per employee by gender and employee 43 category. General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to preventing child and 37 forced labor. Aspect B4: KPI B4.1: Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and Labor Standards 37 forced labor. KPI B4.2: Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. 37 Product Practices General Disclosure: Policies on managing environmental and social risks of the supply 50,55 chain. Aspect B5: Supply Chain KPI B5.1: Number of suppliers by geographical region. 55 Management KPI B5.2: Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers 50,55 where the practices are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to health and safety, 25 advertising, labelling and privacy matters relating to products and services provided and methods of redress. KPI B6.1: Percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and 25 health reasons. Aspect B6: KPI B6.2: Number of products and services related complaints received and how they are Product 22-23,27 dealt with. Responsibility KPI B6.3: Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property 16,25,27,54 rights. KPI B6.4: Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. 25,52 KPI B6.5: Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are 24,26-27 implemented and monitored. General Disclosure: Information on the policies and compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud 54 and money laundering. Aspect B7: KPI B7.1: Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought Anti-corruption against the issuer or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes 54-55 of the cases. KPI B7.2: Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, how they 54-55 are implemented and monitored. Community General Disclosure: Policies on community engagement to understand the needs of the communities where the issuer operates and to ensure its activities take into consideration 28-34 Aspect B8: the communities' interests. Community KPI A8.1: Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labor Investment 10,30-34 needs, health, culture, sport). KPI B8.2: Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area. 10,42 64 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) SDGs Our Practices Page(s) Cooperating with our parent company to undertake the targeted poverty alleviation task and support areas in extreme poverty, establishing a sound poverty alleviation system framework, dispatching poverty allevi28-34, ation volunteers, building communications infrastructure in poor areas, and comprehensively promoting 42-43 poverty alleviation through related education, health, livelihood, industry and consumption programs. Building the smart ”And + Agriculture” product suite that covers agricultural production, business, management and service, and using new technologies such as 5G and AI to increase agricultural production 20,30,32 and income. Providing free screening and treatment of congenital heart disease for low-income children, promoting the deployment and upgrade of medical information systems in less developed areas and the interconnection 10-11,20, of medical resources; organizing medical examinations for all employees, protecting physical and mental 33,37,41-43 health of employees with employee assistance programs (EAP), ”Happiness 1+1” activities, etc. Carrying out the ”Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan to provide training for primary and secondary school principals in remote central and western regions, and donating teaching equipment and facilities to primary 11,21, and secondary schools in less developed areas; promoting the ”Internet + Education” platform, encouraging employee volunteers to teach in less developed areas, and supporting the improvement of teaching 28-33 conditions. Providing equal employment and training opportunities for employees, and ensuring a fair workplace; im37-40, plementing the ”Female Rights Protection” program, and ensuring the legitimate rights of female employees. 41-42 Promoting water conservation, strictly managing sewage discharge, and reducing water consumption; 50,52 strengthening water management in equipment rooms, office facilities and stores. Carrying out energy-saving and green renovation projects for equipment rooms and data centers, and promoting new energy sources such as solar energy, wind energy, hydropower and hydrogen in areas with 48-52 abundant natural resources and insufficient supply of traditional power. Report Disclosure Indexes Adhering to stable operations and transformation development, providing shareholders with good eco4,38-40, nomic performance; providing employees with competitive compensation, a smooth career development platform, and a sound training system, and working with value chain partners to create job opportunities. 42-43 Building first-class infrastructure that is high-speed, secure, ubiquitous, and intelligent, and continuously 6-7,12-17, optimizing network quality; implementing the innovation-driven development strategy, and enhancing innovation capabilities in areas such as 5G, AI and cloud computing. 26-27 Expanding the network coverage of administrative villages to reduce the digital divide between urban and rural areas; jointly building network infrastructure in Belt and Road countries to promote inclusive econom12,28-36 ic growth and create shared values. Expanding 5G application in vertical industries to support the development of a smart society; leveraging 19-21 our expertise to implement China regional development strategies and the Belt and Road Initiative. Continuously improving network and information security, strengthening the governance of malicious 22-25, information, and protecting customers’ right to choose and right to know; carrying out activities such as ”Satisfaction Service 365” to improve customer satisfaction; and carrying out environmental volunteering 26-27, activities, promoting sustainable consumption and green concept to the public. 47,51-52 Focusing on the impact of 5G on climate change, established the China Mobile Leading Group for Pollution Prevention and Energy Conservation, implementing the Green Action Plan to establish an environmental 48-52 management system covering the entire value chain, and conducting regular assessment of climate risks and contingency measures. No relevant practice. — Developing smart applications for environmental protection and help protect the ecology; assessing local biodiversity before building a base station and taking measures to protect the local natural environment; no 25,44-47 species was found significantly impacted by the Company’s operations. Continuously improving our risk assessment mechanism, building a comprehensive compliance management system, actively fostering a healthy atmosphere of integrity and integrity, and further implementing 50-55 responsible procurement, and jointly fulfilling social responsibilities with suppliers. Continuing to improve the open cooperation layout, implement ecological cooperation plans, and cooperate with government agencies, large enterprise groups, global carriers and academic institutions to build a 15-17, thriving 5G industry ecology; establishing an open cooperation platform for partners, and supporting small 26-27,36 and medium enterprises with information solutions and quality services. 65 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards GRI Standard Disclosure Page(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page(s) Organizational profile GRI 102: Disclosure 102-55 GRI content index 66-67 Disclosure 102-1 Name of the General organization 4 Disclosures Disclosure 102-56 External 60-61 2016 assurance Disclosure 102-2 Activities, 4 brands, products, and services GRI 201: Economic Performance Disclosure 102-3 Location of Back cover GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 4,53-54 headquarters Disclosure 102-4 Location of Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic 4 4 GRI 201: value generated and distributed operations Economic Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and Performance Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications legal form 4 2016 and other risks and opportunities due 48-50 to climate change Disclosure 102-6 Markets served 4 GRI 202: Market Presence Disclosure 102-7 Scale of the 4 organization GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 4,53-55 Disclosure 102-8 Information on GRI 202: Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of employees and other workers 4,42-43 Market senior management hired from 43 Presence 2016 the local community Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain 55 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Disclosure 102-10 Significant GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 28-34 changes to the organization and 4,55 its supply chain Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure GRI 203: investments and services 12,30,36 Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary 2-3 Indirect supported Principle or approach Economic Disclosure 102-12 External Impacts 2016 Disclosure 203-2 Significant 28-34,42-43 6,16,36 indirect economic impacts initiatives GRI 204: Procurement Practices Disclosure 102-13 Membership of 6,54 associations GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 50,55 Strategy GRI 204: Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of Procurement 55 Disclosure 102-14 Statement 2-3 Practices 2016 spending on local suppliers from senior decision-maker GRI 205: Anti-corruption Ethics and integrity GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 54 Disclosure 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 8,56-57 Disclosure 205-2 of behavior Communication and training 54 GRI 102: GRI 205: Antiabout anti-corruption policies General Governance corruption and procedures Disclosures Disclosure 102-18 Governance 2016 Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed structure 4 2016 incidents of corruption and 54-55 Stakeholder engagement actions taken Disclosure 102-40 List of GRI 301: Materials stakeholder groups 58 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 50 Disclosure 102-41 Collective 43 Disclosure 301-1 Materials used 52 bargaining agreements by weight or volume Disclosure 102-42 Identifying and 58 Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input selecting stakeholders GRI 301: 50 Materials 2016 materials used Disclosure 102-43 Approach to 58 Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed stakeholder engagement products and their packaging 50,52 Disclosure 102-44 Key topics and 58 materials concerns raised GRI 302: Energy Reporting practice GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 48-51 Disclosure 102-45 Entities Disclosure 302-1 Energy included in the consolidated 4,62 consumption within the 51 financial statements organization Disclosure 102-46 Defining report 59 Disclosure 302-2 Energy content and topic Boundaries consumption outside of the 51 Disclosure 102-47 List of material GRI 302: organization topics 59 Energy 2016 Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity 51-52 Disclosure 102-48 Restatements No Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of of information energy consumption 48-52 Disclosure 102-49 Changes in 59 Disclosure 302-5 Reductions in reporting energy requirements of products 48-50 Disclosure 102-50 Reporting and services period 62 GRI 303: Water Disclosure 102-51 Date of most GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 50 recent report 62 Disclosure 303-2 Water sources Disclosure 102-52 Reporting cycle 62 significantly affected by 50 GRI 303: Water withdrawal of water Disclosure 102-53 Contact point 62 2016 for questions regarding the report Disclosure 303-3 Water recycled 50 and reused Disclosure 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 62 GRI 304: Biodiversity GRI Standards GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 24,44-46 66 GRI Standard Disclosure Page(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page(s) Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites GRI 404: Training and Education owned, leased, managed in, or GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 38-40 adjacent to, protected areas and 44-46 GRI 304: areas of high biodiversity value Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of Biodiversity training per year per employee 43 outside protected areas 2016 Disclosure 304-2 Significant Disclosure 404-2 Programs for GRI 404: upgrading employee skills and 38-40 impacts of activities, products, 44-46 Training and transition assistance programs and services on biodiversity Education GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 48-51 performance and career 38-40 Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope development reviews 1) GHG emissions 52 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect 52 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI 405: Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect Diversity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of (Scope 3) GHG emissions 52 and Equal 43 Opportunity governance bodies and employees GRI 305: Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions Emissions 2016 intensity 52 2016 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of 52 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 GHG emissions GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxBargaining ides (NO X), sulfur oxides (SO X), 52 and other significant air emisGRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 sions GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 306: Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 50-51 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor Disclosure 306-1 Water GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 discharge by quality and 52 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Report Disclosure Indexes destination GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 28-34,37,55 Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type 52 GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 306: and disposal method GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 28-34,55 Effluents and Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills No Disclosure 413-1 Operations with Waste 2016 Disclosure 306-4 Transport of local community engagement, No impact assessments, and 28-34 hazardous waste GRI 413: Local development programs Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies Communities affected by water discharges and/ No 2016 Disclosure 413-2 Operations with or runoff significant actual and potential 28-34,55 negative impacts on local GRI 307: Environmental Compliance communities GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 48-50 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 307: Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 55 Environmental with environmental laws and 50 Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that 55 Compliance 2016 regulations GRI 414: were screened using social criteria Supplier Social GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Assessment Disclosure 414-2 Negative social 2016 impacts in the supply chain and 55 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 50 actions taken Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety that were screened using 55,55 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 22-25 GRI 308: Supplier environmental criteria Environmental Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of Assessment 2016 Disclosure 308-2 Negative GRI 416: the health and safety impacts of 25 environmental impacts in the 50 product and service categories supply chain and actions taken Customer Health and Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of GRI 401: Employment Safety 2016 non-compliance concerning the 25 health and safety impacts of GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 products and services Disclosure 401-1 New employee 43 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling hires and employee turnover GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 25 GRI 401: Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided GRI 417: Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for Employment to full-time employees that are not 37,41 Marketing and product and service information 25 2016 provided to temporary or part-time Labeling 2016 and labeling employees GRI 418: Customer Privacy Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 42 GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 24 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Disclosure 418-1 Substantiated GRI 418: complaints concerning breaches GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37 Customer 24,27 Privacy 2016 of customer privacy and losses of GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety customer data GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 37,40 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 403: Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury GRI 103: Management approach disclosures 2016 25 Occupational and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 43 GRI 419: Disclosure 419-1 Non-compliance Health and absenteeism, and number of Socioeconomic with laws and regulations in the 25 Safety 2016 work-related fatalities Compliance 2016 social and economic area 67 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact No. Index Page(s) Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 28-34,37,55 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 28-34,37,55 Labor Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 37 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labor 37 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 37 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 37 Environmental Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 48-50 challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 44-50 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 44-47 technologies Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 54 extortion and bribery ISO 26000 Core Issues Index Page(s) Core Issues Index Page(s) Organization Governance 4,53 1. Anti-corruption 54-55 1. Due diligence 53-54 2. Responsible political — 2. Human rights risk situations 28-34,37,55 Fair involvement Operating 3. Fair competition 54 3. Avoidance of complicity 54-55 Practice 4. Promoting social responsibility 4. Resolving grievances 54-55 50,55 in the value chain Human 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 5. Respect for property rights 16-17,27,54 28-34,37 Rights groups 1. Fair marketing, factual and 6. Civil and political rights 37 unbiased information and fair 25,54 7. Economic, social and cultural contractual practices 19-21,41 rights 2. Protecting consumers’ health 24-25 8. Fundamental principles and and safety 38-41 rights at work Consumer 3. Sustainable consumption 47 1. Employment and employment Issues 4. Consumer service, support and 38-41 22-23,27 relationships compliant and dispute resolution 2. Conditions of work and social 5. Consumer data protection and 37,41 24 Labor protection privacy Practices 3. Social dialogue 37 6. Access to essential services 22-25 4. Health and safety at work 37,41,43 7. Education and awareness 22-25 5. Human development and 1. Community involvement 28-34 38-40,43 training in the workplace 28-34,372. Education and culture 40,42-43 1. Prevention of pollution 48-52 2. Sustainable resource use 46-52 3. Employment creation and skills 30-32,37Community development 40,42 3. Climate change mitigation and Involvement Environmental 48-52 4. Technology development and adaptation and 16-17,27 Development access 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of 44-45 5. Wealth and income creation 4,42 natural homes 6. Health 28-29,33,37, 41-43 7. Social investment 28-34,42 68
