Communication on Progress Period: 2019-2020 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During this last period, Renell has continued to work with the various environmental, social and ethical initiatives such as the Nordic Ecolabel (The Swan) in order to improve and optimise our performance. We are also aware of the link between the Ten Principles and the UN sustainable Development Goals and even though the SDGs are interconnected, the relevant SDGs relating directly to our operations are Goals 3, 4, 5, 8 and 12 In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and with the UN sustainable development goals. We will also look at Science Based Targets and how we can work with these to further improve our environmental performance Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Renell’s goal is to advance sustainable development through our business practices and the solutions we develop. As such we aim provide a pleasant physical and psychological work environment with very good and safe work conditions for our employees. The SDGs that are directly relevant to our daily operations are: Our employees are trained on working procedures that take into consideration safety, ergonomics and health. Furthermore, a yearly work environment evaluation acts as a guideline to improve both the physical and psychological well-being of our employees. Over 95% of our cleaning products are Nordic Swan certified products which prohibit harmful/hazardous substances Apart from the training which all new employees must undergo, employees are also educated periodically about work-related issues and informed about the company’s CSR work They also receive training to deal with unforeseen crisis situations such as the present Corona virus Achieving gender balance has been a part of our Code of Conduct and our general employment policy. The normal ratio of Male/Female stands at about half and half. Decent work for our employees means that they receive proper payment, working conditions as required by law. We are working closely together with communities for the purpose of getting people off social benefits and on to permanent jobs. Over 60% of the unemployed people we have coming through our business end up with a permanent job. We are also cooperating with the local community to provide Danish language courses for refugees and thereby securing job qualifications. Sustainable consumption and production relate to our business practices of sourcing the products we use and the products or services we offer. We have a responsible Sourcing guide where the core is to source Eco-labelled products and services that are less harmful to the environment. We also offer cleaning and window services that are Nordic Swan certified to reduce environmental impacts in our daily operations. In order to achieve priorities above, Renell works with concrete policies and tools within the guidelines of the Global Compact 10 principles and the Nordic Swan. A note on the Corona virus and Renell Since the Corona virus outbreak, many businesses have locked down and the repercussions are felt throughout the business community. The Danish government has provided a number of packages to help companies through this period but even so, many businesses have had to evaluate and readjust the daily operations and work procedures. Renell has also been affected by this situation, but by introducing various measures, Renell has managed to restrict the repercussions in the focus areas of job losses and infection. This occurred through close dialogue and agreements with both private and public customers which resulted in a restructuring of the daily operations. The work force is almost at full capacity thanks to new agreements with customers which also means that Renell has not made use of the help packages offered by the Danish government. In order to prevent the spread of infection, Renell introduced a training program for employees regarding sanitation, work procedures and other new areas. This training also provided employees who would otherwise be sent home with the opportunity to work in new job areas. Human Rights and Labour Relevant Global Compact principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies and goals We are continuing to work with Human rights and Labour issues in the same manner as we did the previous year with the aim of improving our standards wherever and whenever we can. Our goal is to provide a pleasant workplace with good working conditions that address the physical and psychological needs of our employees Our human rights and labour policies support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore, we support the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. In the coming year, our aim is to continue to work with human rights and labour issues to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry and to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. Assessment, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Procedures regarding assessment of our policies, working conditions and employee rights remain the same and occur through: The work environment evaluation (APV). The APV is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations. A group (AMU) was elected to work with APV issues. The group members received competence building courses regarding APV work and they meet quarterly to discuss complaints, possible improvements and so on During this period, all employees received a questionnaire/survey that provided the opportunity for them to voice their opinions regarding working conditions. The results were consequently evaluated and action was taken to rectify some minor employee concerns. The regular internal meetings. The well-being of our employees is a regular item on the agenda at meetings and we are constantly looking for ways to improve the working conditions in order to reduce the high rate of employee change which is very common in our line of business The Nordic Ecolabel certification process. A part of the criteria in the Nordic Ecolabel concerns the rights of the workers such as minimum wage assurance, third party insurance, training and education of employees. The Nordic Swan has become a very useful tool when assessing, implementing and measuring our performance regarding human rights, Labour, anti-corruption and environment The use of an external CSR consultant. We have a CSR consultant that we meet with at least twice a year for the purpose of both auditing our Nordic Swan licence and challenging us in respect to our CSR work (goals, targets implementation procedures etc.) Implementation Initiatives and measurements of outcomes: All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: o The company’s training and education programs o Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks o The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. o The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. o Work and machine instructions and education activities o Minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers All employees are able to train in a recently established fitness room in the cellar and Renell has organised free entrance to all employees who wish to swim at the local swimming hall. Renell organises various occasions where employees have the opportunity to get together, have fun and socialise. Renell supports the local community through sponsor and support programs for the following sports clubs and associations: Regarding gender equality, we are a member of a an industry organisation which requires that all employees receive equal payment regardless of gender. Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation and of employee input. A team of two employees have been appointed as CSR responsible and they work closely with the external consultants, management and other elected internal groups to ensure continuous improvement in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Renell holds a cleaning services licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label covering our ordinary and window cleaning services Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society No complaints from employees regarding Human rights and working conditions violations Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Environment Relevant Global Compact principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies and goals Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures We have set specific goals regarding chemical use, transport, waste and sourcing of related products we use both in the cleaning and our offices. Renell’s environmental policy requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Assessment, Implementation Renell uses external consultants that work closely with the CSR team to assess our environmental impacts that include chemical use, transport, waste, sourcing and product use Priority actions for minimising impacts are planned and implemented after which and evaluation is conducted to determine the effectiveness and whether adjustments are needed After the suggested action have been formulated, the CSR team reports to the management for determining the priorities, approval and resource allocation Measurement of outcomes Renell continues to hold a Nordic Ecolabel licence for both the ordinary and window cleaning services and complies with the criteria. Briefly, complying with the criteria means: o We are using more that 95% Nordic Swan certified chemicals in our daily cleaning and we are using 0,63 ml/m2 and an average of 5,36 L/100 km. o All new vehicles purchased must comply with the latest Euroclass and that we are using less than 9 l petrol per 100 Km and less than 0.75 ml petrol/m2 in total. o All paper products used at our facilities are now Nordic Swan/EU Ecolabel certified and we are working with our customers to replace conventional paper products we dispense to them with 100% Certified. All printing of information and marketing materials is also done at a Nordic certified printer o Using Goods and services that are Nordic Swan certified is an assurance that we are ethically compliant to National legislation, using the best available products in terms of minimal environmental impact and better for health In the next period, we will be looking at Science Based Targets regarding how to set and achieve GHG reduction commitments and thereby put metrics on our performance as well as align with the EU/National reduction strategies. Anti-Corruption Relevant Global Compact principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policies and goals Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. Assessment, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded As licence holders of for the Nordic Ecolabel, we follow and comply with ethical criteria built into the scheme regarding compliance with laws such as compliance with all applicable laws. Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
