SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS A message from our CEO 5 00 Sergio Rossi in numbers 7 The main highlights 01 srRevolution 9 1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance 10 1.2 Client centricity 19 1.3 Our commitment to sustainability 38 02 HUMAN CAPITAL: Preserving the value of our people 43 2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow 45 2.2 Promoting a better working life 55 03 LOCAL COMMUNITIES: Fostering local districts 59 3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli 61 3.2 Cultural and philanthropic activities 69 04 ENERGY: Reducing the footprint of our shoes 81 4.1 The responsible use of energy resources for emissions reduction 83 05 Methodological note 87 GRI Content Index 96 RICCARDO SCIUTTO Chief Executive Officer 4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 2019 marks the fourth edition of the Sergio Rossi Sustainability years to come, when the attention to sustainable practices will Report and looking back I can’t help but feel true pride for what constantly rise and become crucial for competing in our business. we have accomplished as a team. Similarly, driven by the willingness to continue ensuring a During the past few years lots of work has been done thanks challenging and stimulating working environment, we increased to our passion and audacity: we recovered our true DNA and our efforts towards digital transformation and client centricity. celebrated our great craftsmanship and true bond with the San Indeed, we started the digitalization process of our identity Mauro Pascoli district; we enhanced the Factory, our “Magic to better share the uniqueness of our heritage, involving both Kingdom” where all the magic of our shoe production happens; employees and customers. we recovered our original identity through the Living Heritage As of today, Covid-19 has spread across all nations worldwide, project. All this led us to finally identify our key role as a company having impacted deeply not only our economy, but above all what within our community, and select the three main strategic pillars our lives used to be. where to focus our sustainability efforts: Energy, Human Capital, This global event led us to accelerate many processes which were Local Communities, as a confirmation to our commitment to the already in progress, from digitalization of retail experiences Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, to which we to stock and logistics optimization, from quick adaptation of adhere since the very first edition of this report. communication codes to rapid response to consumers’ new In 2019 we took fundamental and impactful steps to improve our habits. environmental footprint, focusing with priority on the ENERGY To us, the first priority has been the safeguard of the Health goal, and we reached amazing results. Thanks to the investments and Safety of all our people: from employees to artisans, from made in energy monitoring and machinery in San Mauro suppliers to final customers, all risks related to our stakeholders Pascoli plant and thanks to the great attention to consumption have been carefully evaluated and promptly mitigated with optimization throughout all company’s activities impacting on precautionary measures, such as closures and disinfection of GHG emissions, we managed to reduce our energy consumption working spaces, anti-Covid procedures, new processes and tools by 18% compared to last year (29% compared to 2015) and cut by for remote-working solutions at all levels and stages, from office 30% our GHG emissions linked to business travel by air, train and to stores. rented cars. Next year’s report will detail the impact that the current difficult We acted with a long-term perspective strategy, and our global scenario will have on our reference market. Until then, our commitment to promote and implement an efficient and commitment for a more sustainable future of the business will responsible use of energy resources will continue also in the become even stronger than in the past. 5 0.0 SERGIO ROSSI IN NUMBERS The main highlights ENERGY -23% OF PURCHASED ELECTRICITY IN 2019 WITH RESPECT 20% OF TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION TO 2018 THANKS TO THE HIGH-EFFICIENCY OF SMP PLANT IS PRODUCED BY OUR HEAT PUMP AND THE ENERGY METERING SYSTEM PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM INSTALLED IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI HUMAN CAPITAL 318 EMPLOYEES IN EMEA REGION 65% OF OUR TECHNICIANS AND ARTISANS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 HAVE STAYED WITH US FOR MORE THAN 10 YEARS LOCAL COMMUNITIES 23% OF OUR SUPPLIERS ARE LOCATED 95% OF OUR SUPPLIERS IN THE EMILIA-ROMAGNA REGION, ARE ITALIAN MOSTLY IN THE LOCAL DISTRICT 7 sr REVOLUTION /01 1.1 SERGIO ROSSI AT A GLANCE Sergio Rossi S.p.A. is an Italian company active in the design, production, distribution and sale of leather shoes and leather accessories for women through its brand Sergio Rossi [102-1; 102-2]. Since its creation, our brand has become a primary reference in the luxury shoemaking sector and is renowned worldwide for its artisanship and for creating iconic models. Over the past 68 years, the Company has fostered its been a fine-tuning and expansion of our retail space in prime distinctiveness by enhancing the quality of its materials, the locations on the world's leading shopping streets as London and craftsmanship and elegance of its products and its luxury allure, Tokyo: in 2019 the number of DOS has increased from 48 to 56 which remain the foundations of Sergio Rossi’s unique style. scattered among these 4 regions comprising of 39 Stores and 17 The Sergio Rossi brand has become synonym of timeless quality Outlets with the addition of 15 franchising stores in the EMEA and and utmost sophistication and over the decades our shoes have APAC regions. Furthermore, we sell products through our online accompanied countless female leaders and celebrities in their e-commerce channel, by shipping to 83 countries worldwide daily life, from the sidewalk to the red carpet, enabling them [102-6]. In the last year, from a financial standpoint, we pursued to remain effortlessly chic all day long. Whilst showroom and our path towards the reorganization of both our operations and managerial offices are based in Milan, the fulcrum and the pulsing corporate structure. During the two-year period 2018-19, we heart of our production activity is the San Mauro Pascoli factory thus managed to decouple value generation and operating costs: [102-3], where over 150 skillful artisans and technicians have despite the new store openings, operating costs increased by 10% been hand-crafting Sergio Rossi shoes for the past 6 decades. with respect to an overall 14% increase in revenues. Financial The Sergio Rossi factory is the heart and soul of the brand, a sustainability in the long-term is indeed one of our key priorities place where magic and reality come together to create handmade to keep creating value for all our stakeholders. shoes for the women of today. The plant, inaugurated in 2003, is equipped to sketch, design, develop, industrialize, and produce all In 2019, we have reached an overall economic value generated types of women’s luxury footwear, from flat styles to high heels, as equal to 66.9 million euros [102-7; 201-1]. As for the economic well as to shorten the time-to-market in order to timely respond value distributed, equal to 65.3 million, 26% has been allocated to market demand, increasingly oriented towards a “see now, buy to our employees through wages and benefits while almost all now” model. the remaining 74% constitute operating costs. The economic value retained, calculated as the difference between the direct We distribute our products in 14 countries, including directly economic value generated and the economic value distributed, operated stores (DOS) and franchised stores, divided into 4 main has significantly increased shifting from a negative 3.65 million geographical markets: Europe and the Middle East (EMEA), Asia euros at the closure of the 2018 financial year, to a positive 1.55 Pacific (APAC), Japan, and the United States [102-48]. There’s million in 2019. OUR ECONOMIC M. U. 2018 2019 PERFORMANCE (Italy and Global Retail Network (Italy and Global Retail Network ITA, FR e UK) revised ITA, FR, DE e UK) Direct economic value generated: revenues € 58,458,108 66,857,111 Economic value distributed € 62,113,115 65,303,096 – Operating costs € 43,975,911 48,385,894 – Employee wages and benefits € 17,706,275 16,654,994 – Payments to Providers of capital € 156,394 31,101 – Payments to government € 221,335 193,090 – Community investments € 53,200 38,016 Economic value retained € -3,655,007 1,554,015 *FINANCIAL DATA INCLUDE ECONOMIC DATA OF SERGIO ROSSI S.P.A. AND OF THE FOLLOWING LEGAL ENTITIES: SERGIO ROSSI RETAIL S.R.L., SERGIO ROSSI UK LTD, SERGIO ROSSI DEUTSCHLAND GMBH, THAT COVER THE 57.05% OF THE GROUP IN TERMS OF NET GLOBAL REVENUES. THE SCOPE OF THE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONSIDERS INSTEAD JUST SELECTED MONOBRAND AND OUTLET STORES FROM THE COMPANY’S EMEA RETAIL NETWORK, SEE THE METHODOLOGICAL NOTE AT PAG. 87 FOR FURTHER DETAILS. PLEASE NOTE THAT, IN ORDER TO IMPROVE DATA COMPARABILITY, 2018 DATA HAVE BEEN RESTATED WITH RESPECT TO LAST YEAR’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DUE TO A CHANGE IN THE CALCULATION METHODOLOGY. FOR HISTORICAL DATA PLEASE REFER TO 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT [102-48]. 10 sr1 PUMP 11 The plant, inaugurated in 2003, is equipped to sketch, design, develop, industrialize, and produce all types of women’s luxury footwear, from flat styles to high heels, as well as to shorten the time-to-market in order to timely respond to market demand, increasingly oriented towards a “see now, buy now” model. The Sergio Rossi factory is the heart and soul of the brand, a place where magic and reality come together to create handmade shoes for the women of today. The timeline leading to our corporate new deal 1970s 1950s 1980s 1950s 1970s 1980s Immediately after the end of World War Sergio started joining the Milanese The Company started its expansion age, II, the young Sergio Rossi, native of the fashion community and soon became the by opening its first monobrand boutique San Mauro area, started learning how to point of reference of the most renowned in Ancona, soon followed by Turin, make shoes from his father, an artisan fashion stylists, such as Gianni Versace, Florence, Rome, Brussels, New York, shoemaker, whom he accompanied in with whom he started a collaboration by Los Angeles, and London. It was also his daily working activities. In the early providing his shoes for catwalk shows. a period of intense collaboration with 50s, Sergio Rossi took over the father’s Swiftly, Sergio Rossi became a renowned some of the most iconic fashion houses profession and created his own sandals brand in Italy’s fashion capital and the at an international level, since Sergio selling them in the Riviera. The Opanca public recognized it as a synonym of Rossi produced shoes for the collections sandal, which embodied Sergio’s disruptive “Made in Italy” excellence. of haute couture brands like Dolce & creativity, was such a success that in 1966 Gabbana and Azzedine Alaïa. Sergio opened his own company, together with his brother, who then became the Company’s Production Director and maintained this role for his entire life. 14 2000 2015 1990s 2015 2019 1990s 2000 2015 2015 2019 Sergio Rossi’s philosophy and values In 2005 the Company was fully acquired A fund managed by Investindustrial became more defined: women are a by the Kering Group, new owner of Gucci. indirectly acquired 100% of Sergio Rossi. symbol of femininity and forcefulness, While the San Mauro Pascoli factory and The acquisition set the beginning of a new given their progressive emancipation the brand philosophy were completely relaunch phase for the brand, focusing on and change of status. The shoe, instead, refurbished, a series of well-known innovation in line with traditional codes. represented a continuation of the and very talented designers joined the In 2016, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. completed its woman’s body, a vital element of her company as its creative directors. fusion with Sergio Rossi Manufacturing character, and heels and shapes became S.r.l., involved in all the shoe production an emblem of taste. Following three activities, while the company started a decades of continuous economic growth, comprehensive transformation of its in 1999 the Gucci Group acquired the brand and image. Sergio Rossi brand. 15 Ownership Risk Management and structure corporate values Since December 2015, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. has been 100% controlled The Company’s top management is entrusted with all the by Absolute Luxury Holding S.r.l., which is indirectly owned by a risk management activities related to corporate operations fund managed by Investindustrial. Prior to that, the Company was and the supply chain, as well as with the periodic revision of controlled by the primary international multi-brand Kering Group, their effectiveness. In dialogue with the CEO, the Operations which had acquired it from Mr. Sergio Rossi in 1999 [102-10]. In Function and the Human Resources Department continuously addition, Sergio Rossi S.p.A. entirely controls a series of affiliates verify compliance of Sergio Rossi with local, national and located abroad, namely SR USA, SR UK, SR JAPAN, SR HK which international environmental and social laws and regulations. on its turn controls 100% of SR SHANGHAI, and the newly formed As a demonstration of the effectiveness of our internal control SR DEUTSCHLAND in 2019, as well as SR RETAIL which owns system, we have committed no legal violations and have not and manages the business of the direct operated stores in Italy and received any sanctions or fines in the reporting period [307-1]. France [102-5, 102-10, 102-45]. All data and information refer to Sergio Rossi has adopted a model of organization, management our operations in the EMEA region as highlighted in below chart. and control (“Model”) in accordance with the principles set out in the Legislative Decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001 (“Decree”), in order to prevent the liability envisaged for the commission of Corporate the offences set out in the Decree and the application of the related sanctions. governance The gap analysis, carried out last year within the Organizational Our governance structure is based on a Board of Directors of Model arrangement, confirmed the absence of significant Sergio Rossi S.p.A., comprising five members, which is entrusted risks with respect to all the potential offences identified by the with all the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary Model itself. In addition, in accordance with Italian legislation, management of the Company and a Board of Statutory Auditors, the Model entails the introduction of a Supervisory Board, in comprising three standing statutory auditors and two substitute charge of the supervision of the functioning and observance of statutory auditors. An independent auditing firm has also been the Model, and of a dedicated whistelblowing channel, which appointed [102-18]. provides a secure tool to all our stakeholders for reporting The Board of Directors reflects our new ownership structure, violations of laws and internal policies. The application of the since, following the 2015 acquisition, 6 out of 8 members formally Model is constantly assessed and monitored by the vigilance or informally represent Investindustrial in the definition of the body appointed for this specific file and no infringements have corporate strategy and governance. Board members have also been recorded during 2019. distributed among themselves a set of key responsibilities in order to ensure constant monitoring and correct conduct of corporate operations. In particular, our Chairman, Mr. Cesare Piovene Porto Godi, is in charge of the legal representation of the Company before any relevant stakeholder, while our CEO, Mr. Riccardo Sciutto, is responsible for any decision related to economic, social and environmental aspects and sets the Company’s strategic objectives, in dialogue with the Company’s top management. SERGIO ROSSI GROUP STRUCTURE Absolute Luxury Holding Srl (Italy) 100% Sergio Rossi Spa (Italy) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% SR Deutschland SR USA SR Retail SR UK SR Japan SR HK (Germany) (USA) (Italy) (United Kingdom) (Japan) (China) 100% SR Shanghai (China) Legal Entity inserted in the Reporting Scope 16 THE VALUES OF THE SERGIO ROSSI GROUP “We are true to our brand The Group is committed to the highest and committed ethical standards: to protect and develop it” INTEGRITY Riccardo Sciutto, Group CEO. At the heart of the Group’s Code of Conduct. We act with Integrity when doing business and in our working environment. Ethical behavior, accountability and moral responsibility are necessary tools for maintaining consistency between one's actions and Company's principles in order to put the Company’s interest first and to contribute to the well-being of the working environment. RESPECT Interact with people by using a fair, professional and polite approach due in any respectful interaction between individuals. RESPONSIBILITY Be accountable when doing business, to perform satisfactorily and fulfill obligations in accordance with the Company’s values. LOYALTY Support the Company’s needs and commit to serve Company’ interests first. As regarding internal policies, since 2017, we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct defining a set of core corporate values, norms and principles of behavior, to which all employees of each company belonging to the Sergio Rossi Group must adhere without prejudice to the local law provisions. The Code of Conduct addresses the employees’ responsibilities to the Company, to their colleagues and to their suppliers and customers, and states the Company’s commitment on how the Group does business across the world. The document helps guide employees on how to conduct themselves as representatives of the Sergio Rossi Group, to be sure that all our employees’ behaviors and decisions, both inside and outside the Company, are aligned towards the same principles and thus protect our Company Brand. [102-16]. As of today, the Human Resources Department is entrusted with ensuring the respect of the content of the Code by all the corporate employees. As for internal auditing and control activities, these are conducted by the Board of Statutory Auditors, which also oversees and manages the collection of internal data needed for the appropriate redaction of financial reporting documents. TIMELINE WITH THE MOST ICONIC MODELS #GODIVAPUMP The Godiva Pump is the timeless shoe every woman should own. This iconic pump represents a versatile choice, the perfect balance between charming femininity and a dynamic attitude. #sr1 Presented in September 2016 and first introduced to the market in Spring 2017, sr1 soon emerged as one of the latest icons for Sergio Rossi: the square toe, the metal plaque and the leather tongue make this family immediately recognizable and gave birth to a complete collection of products, customization services and special collaboration projects recalling the same stylistic codes. #SRMILANO Introduced in FW18 as a return to true femininity, srMilano took inspiration from our historical archive. srMilano is inspired by an early '00s sandal and aims at paying a tribute to the city of Milan and the glamour of its women: sophisticated, subtle, and yet impossible not to notice. #SERGIO Introduced in FW19, the Sergio product line pays tribute to the label’s heritage, being defined by a geometric reedition of a Sergio Rossi archival logo dating back to the seventies. The family features pumps, booties and boots, and additionally marks the debut of Sergio Rossi’s personal and distinctive take on the urban sneaker. 1.2 CLIENT CENTRICITY Starting from 2016, we have been redefining our brand identity and positioning with the aim of rediscovering Sergio Rossi’s original DNA, thus enhancing its renowned craftsmanship and relaunching its product authenticity. At first, the process involved the design of our products, by In fact, the “sr” acronym represents our willingness to respect reconnecting to the deepest essence of Sergio Rossi’s distinctive and stay focused on Sergio Rossi’s most intimate nature, whilst style and innovative design. Concurrently, we started a complete the number “1” stands for this new chapter in our history. digitalization process of our identity, capable of channeling the With the “sr1” collection, inspired by a 90s model of our uniqueness of our heritage via a new digital identity. A central corporate archive, we made a fresh start by revisiting the part of this path has been the creation of a corporate archive, most authentic aesthetics of the brand and providing our essential for rediscovering our origins and roots, inspiring our contemporary target customer with an interesting and future path and making our clients aware of Sergio Rossi’s history portable footwear, diving into the legacy of the brand. The sr1 and heritage. Finally, we began the development of the “Retail slipper, the first model introduced, recalled the daily flat shoes Excellence” project, aimed at turning the shopping occasion that marked the first success of Sergio Rossi, while the sr1 into a client-tailored moment and at creating an emotional and pump was a tribute to an historic archive piece inspired by the exclusive bond with each client. In the meantime, our social allure and boldness of the 90s’ Supermodels. Accessories also media communication strategy has been evolving together with pay tribute to our important heritage, with the emblematic our clients needs and habits, thus leading us to activate strategic leather tongue and its personalized silver plaque that is spread brand ambassadress and digital KOL programs in Europe all over the collection. and China, as well as investing in dedicated product capsules The products are timeless and break free from traditional and collections to better catch our clients’ moods and lifestyles. outdated rules – they work from day to night and suit all places and situations. sr1 The sr1 collection was aimed at responding to the tastes of the redefined target customer archetype of Sergio Rossi, who is an The sr1 collection represents the first step of the new beginning entrepreneurial and active woman, instinctively attracted by of the Company and the rediscovery of our iconic design. beauty, elegance and style. sr1 SLIPPER, sr1 PUMP 19 The new store concept In 2017, following the Sergio Rossi renewed brand identity, we launched the new store concept, designed by Marco Costanzi. The architect conceived a new structure identifying materials, colors and shapes which could perfectly communicate the new brand positioning and exalt the new product collections. Additionally, the interior designer Cristina Celestino designed all the furniture pieces of the new store, taking inspiration from a cultivated and ironic femininity with a contemporary allure and expressly referring to iconic shapes, which made Sergio Rossi renowned all over the world. In 2018, we completed the roll out of the new store concept all over the world, and in 2019 we introduced further design elements inspired by our Living Heritage Archive in San Mauro Pascoli in some of the most innovative and newly CHENGDU IFS opened shopping destination malls. The stores thus became an experiential environment where the customer could have come into contact with the authentic Sergio Rossi DNA and felt like visiting our factory and archive. Moreover we started to play with our spaces and pop-ups, mixing the clean and delicate store concept by CostanziCelestino with strong and impactful graphic elements linked to the SERGIO collection launch. We leveraged all set ups and temporary spaces to raise the awareness of the newly introduced collection and related logomania pattern, introducing some key visual elements taken from the Press Presentation of February 2019 in Milan and designed by artist Gary Card. The result was a powerful mix of classics shapes and edgy graphics, soft colors and black and white pattern, timeless furniture with contemporary creativity. SHANGHAI ONE ITC 18 4 3 FRANCHISEE 22 12 IN EUROPE 8 FRANCHISEE IN APAC 4 FRANCHISEE IN MIDDLE EAST 56 DOS worldwide 15 Franchisees’ monobrand stores and corners 83 Countries served through e-commerce 20 BRAND PROTECTION Our brand represents one of Sergio Rossi’s most valuable assets and therefore it deserves a continuous and dedicated protection and monitoring. Indeed, it is so precious for us to preserve our design authenticity and uniqueness that we continue to register the models belonging to the sr1 collection as well as to the new srMilano and SERGIO collection. In addition, we carefully work on our trademarks’ portfolio to ensure global protection. In our view, in fact, intellectual property consists not only in the protection of our brand, but also in the valuation of how our corporate identity is perceived by our key stakeholders. Digitalizing our identity: “think heritage, play digital” As part of our corporate digitalization strategy we prosecuted of the client centricity approach to the business, making the concentration of our efforts in advertising, communication our customers the actual epicenter of all communication, & PR specifically on social networks like Instagram and marketing, product and commercial goals. The internalization Facebook for Western markets, alongside with Wechat and of IT processes on a global scale realized in 2017-18 was Weibo for Eastern regions. As a result, we can now count fundamental to step up to a higher level of automatization over 1,151,000 followers on Instagram, 320,153 likes on our and data analysis needed to perform our activities both at a Facebook page, 24,044 subscribers on our Wechat profile corporate and store level. At present, our customers can buy (+47% versus 2018) and 42,654 Weibo followers (+74% versus Sergio Rossi products where it is most convenient for them, 2018) – all numbers obtained from organic growth, without using a variety of different channels, from physical stores to any paid followers acquisition. our online e-commerce platform, now locally managed on a In line with the motto introduced by our CEO, “Think heritage, regional stock basis and product assortment, in line with our play digital”, as our goal to merge tradition and modernity, overall g-local strategy. For logistics as well, the IT monitoring we continued the implementation of our new corporate infrastructure is now under complete governance of the Sergio digitalization strategy, which aims at progressively enhancing Rossi headquarters and is fully integrated with our IT system. our online presence and our consistency within all digital tools This will lead to more meaningful and satisfying customer and environments, while streamlining our internal processes experiences, as well as to a direct benefit from a substantial and teams. Such a strategy, which involves all the main business cost reduction thanks to stock, logistics and operations functions in a cross-departmental fashion, will contribute optimization in a more harmonized way. to discovering and exploiting new synergies between them In addition, we have started implementing a series of actions while making their functions more effective, thus reducing aimed at ameliorating our cybersecurity profile. A business our overall environmental impact. Our multi-channel retail continuity plan has been put in place, i.e. a series of processes digitalization strategy, first outlined in 2017, became an related to the prevention of potential cyber threats such authentic omnichannel department in 2019, which was created as data thefts and to information recovery. Indeed, as a by merging the different digital competencies already present recovery measure, we now rely on a server farm managed in our organization (from digital marketing to e-commerce by a trusted third party, which provides us data storage and management, from retail relationships to CRM), entitled back-up services. Fully integrated with our corporate digital to strengthen and validate an authentic and deep change in communication strategy, we have decided to enrich and our company mindset. Conceived with the aim of making enhance the uniqueness of our brand heritage sustaining the our reaction to the market changes and requests as flexible shaping of our digital identity with a series of interventions, and dynamic as possible, it represented a clear statement which will be described in the next chapters. 320,153 FACEBOOK FANS 1,151,103 INSTAGRAM FOLLOWERS 24,044 WECHAT SUBSCRIBERS 42,654 WEIBO FOLLOWERS 23 24 Advertising Campaigns and Special Digital Projects After the relaunch of the sr1 collection, the first to be entirely digitally advertised, all our brand and communication projects have been created to fit digital and social-media channels and tools, to enhance the interaction between the customer and the collections. The project “srMilano – The Musical” introduced the srMilano family to the public through a magical, whimsical and dreamy video and photo contents, featuring both SS and FW models, thus reinforcing our product value, which never goes out of style, and carryover merchandising strategy, which allow many of our products to overcome season’s boundaries to become everlasting designs. The video became inspiration for retail windows and in-store events all year round, thus involving our clients at 360 and making our message and collection communication codes consistent. 25 Same cross-channel communication strategy approach was adopted to present and introduce the SERGIO collection. First presented in February 2019 at MFW, it was soon defined by its strong archive-inspired codes thanks to artist Gary Card, who transformed the brand’s showroom into a modern and refined shoe factory, where playful industrial tools met hyper-graphic logomania. The project evolved into window concept rolled out all over the world, as well as distinctive store visuals, digital videos and events concept. The collection was the first to be communicated following the strategy of the “see now – buy now”, leveraging the extraordinary capability of our factory to deliver first items to key stores just a few weeks after the press presentation, so satisfying clients demand for novelties almost real-time but at the same time extending the life of the products beyond the standard selling season and increasing the value for the buyers. SERGIO PUMPS 26 Lastly, we decided to start involving our final clients on a project which we care most: our sustainability commitment. We decided to create a complete brand image project aimed at several goals: 1. State our commitment 2. Showcase our results 3. Invite our customers to join our efforts towards a conscious and sustainable lifestyle. The project was declined into several different mini-videos suitable for social media, to be easily enjoyed by our followers as well as shared with their audience and friends. The shoe, from our iconic sr1 to the newest SERGIO, was the protagonist of each statement, speaking directly to the public about its being conscious, ethic, energy-saver etc. The messages also became in-store videos and windows, and the results in terms of engagement of the final customers were great, demonstrating the growing interest for such topic and the importance of making people aware of the great impact we all have on our planet and society. This was soon followed by the launch of the sr Light Footprint internal project, consisting of several initiatives aimed at a greater involvement of employees on sustainability: the first activity involved the distribution of branded personal water bottles to all our employees, both in Milan and San Mauro, to reduce/eliminate the consumption of disposable plastic. The project is already fully operational in Milan, where the plastic of water bottles and bottles for the customers of the sales campaign, coffee cups, plastic cutlery, etc., has been abolished. This was soon followed by the launch of SR Light Footprint internal project, consisting of several initiatives aimed at a greater involvement of employees on sustainability: the first activity involved the distribution of branded personal water bottles to all our employees, both in Milan and San Mauro, to reduce/eliminate the consumption of disposable plastic. The project is already fully operational in Milan, where the plastic of water bottles and bottles for the customers of the sales campaign, coffee cups, plastic cutlery, etc., has been abolished. SERGIO ROSSI 24 BOTTLE 28 29 srAddiction In May 2019 we launched a brand new product and collaboration with the exuberant and charming vision of the communication project, with the aim of spreading the brand American designer as well as her ethical vegan stand. The awareness amongst youngest and more trend setter clients: protagonist was the sr1 collection again, to strengthen the link srAddiction. with our DNA and leverage its timeless design. This capsule srAddiction is the creative container created by Sergio Rossi represented the first vegan collection for Sergio Rossi: four to embrace all kinds of collection partnerships. This unique different kinds of silks, from classic black to the brilliant white collaboration hub is aimed at seeing a selection of different and red, until the most outstanding blue floral print silk. Pumps, synergies, from the fashion system to the most unexpected and mules and ballerinas with the distinguished squared metal unexplored lands, interpreting the world of Sergio Rossi with plaque have been embellished with a waterfall of pearls, giving an exclusive vision. a whimsical nonchalance to every step. The first collaboration presented was SR + Marta Ferri. The A third collaboration was also dedicated to a partner e-tailer: collaboration with the Italian designer and couturier gave we teamed with Swarovski for a special collection promoted a new spin to the iconic sr1 collection celebrating the light and exclusively distributed by Farfetch on their e-commerce heartedness of summer. The capsule collection was made of platform. The selection of pumps, sandals and ballerinas was mules, slippers and espadrillas, featuring the combination revised into new and unique versions thanks to the sparkling of different materials such as velvet and juta, bringing new and prestigious Swarovski crystals, thus reinforcing further unexpected vibes to the Sergio Rossi collection. our belief in the importance of contamination in the era of the In October we introduced SR + Rosie Assoulin capsule, a digital revolution. SERGIO ROSSI + MARTA FEERI 30 SERGIO ROSSI + ROSIE ASSOULIN 31 Women we love collaborations with style icons, KOLs and brand ambassadress In 2019 we decided to expand and strengthen our collaboration China in April 2019. To celebrate the partnership, we released a strategy with KOLs by implementing a structured micro-KOLs series of announcement campaign images throughout all major program, involving 10 talents worldwide, and engaging a deeper Chinese social media like Wechat and Weibo, starring Nazha cooperation with three of them, with specific visibility and in the brand most iconic styles in which the actress perfectly brand positioning goals in Europe, Middle East and China. interpreted the brand DNA, followed by another series of FW19/20 campaign images starring the Chinese actress in For Europe we chose to be represented by Chiara Ferragni, the most fashionable styles selected among the fall-winter digital entrepreneuse with over 20 million followers, who 2019/20 collection. For the resonance and effectiveness of posted our products and came visiting our factory, sharing the this partnership, Sergio Rossi ranked #2 in the luxury brand experience with her followers’ base. The social media results endorsement effect index at China Gold Data Conference 2019. were amazing, with almost 30 million reach and over 2 million Besides those projects, we continued our placement and direct engagement. cooperation with top celebrities and stylists worldwide, For China we partnered with famous model and actress Guli dressing actresses like Scarlett Johansson, Nicole Kidman and Nazha, who was appointed Brand Ambassadress for Greater Amber Kuo. NAZHA CHIARA FERRAGNI 32 Creating a new client experience In 2019 we launched the “Retail Excellence” project, initially started in 2017 and aimed at turning the shopping experience into a client-tailored moment, creating an emotional and exclusive bond with each client. We started from our sr Academy and extended the training and coaching activities throughout all regions, adding a further step, named “Train-the-trainer”, to expand the reach of the project to our entire salesforce, both operating in our directly operated stores and in our outlets, adding some key wholesale partners to the program [for more information, please see Training Program § 2.1. p.52]. Hong Kong, China, Japan and USA have also being aligned to grant the same expertise level of our staff and ensure the top in-store experience to our clients in every shop and in every region. We continued our collaborations with best international fashion e-tailers, connecting final shoppers to stores and brands from all around the world, and with other e-shop websites and marketplaces, in order to reach even more clients and offer them an even wider online experience. In addition to this, we developed dedicated product selections and even special capsules with some of them, to make the Sergio Rossi experience through these innovative channels even more tailored. To engage customers and make the experience in store even more attractive, complete and surrounding, we implemented an impressive number of in-store events worldwide, focusing each time on new different formats and subjects, aimed at revealing the newest models, families and services. During the year, we realized over 90 events, cocktails and pop-ups on our DOS, outlet and wholesale partners’ network, implementing 16 concepts, from the product family presentation to the participation of local mall’s events and celebrations. 33 2019 DIGITAL CONTENTS Our MTO service: #yourownsergiorossi and #srWonder In 2017 and 2018 we launched our first customization service on sr1 slipper and pump, which we completed in 2019 with the addition of the sr1 running. #yourownsergiorossi gave our customers the opportunity to enjoy an exclusive and effective personalization, thanks also to our San Mauro Pascoli factory, fully equipped to offer our clients the chance to customize their sr1 and to receive them within just 4-5 weeks. Moreover, to promote and extend the availability of the service to the fullest target customer, we arranged several pop-ups and dedicated displays all over the world from our DOS to our key wholesale partners, to best communicate our artisanal expertise and extraordinary manufacturing opportunities to all our potential clients. Following the great success and positive feedback across all channels (+25% orders in 4 distribution channels, including DOS, e-commerce and wholesales partners), we extended this activity to a complete MTO service available in selected Sergio Rossi DOS worldwide, giving our top customers and VIC the chance to create a brand new item starting from any model available in the collection, customize in all materials and colors available in our leather warehouse. Alongside with this top VIP service, we also developed a dedicated service for the most special day of our clients, through the #srWonder project, the MTO service addressed to our brides. A selection of our bestseller models, from pump to flat sandals, from platform to slippers, has been developed with exclusive and dedicated materials and colors specifically studied for matching with brides’ looks. Dedicated label, packaging, customized initials and data, and a personalized message from our store managers accompany the shoe, together with the most precious detail of the “blue something” expressed through a little blue diamond nestled on the outer sole. SR WONDER MTO 36 37 1.3 OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Given the importance of sustainability, in 2019 we have consolidated our commitment to our first Group Sustainability Policy formalized and released in 2018. The document is the result of a crossfunctional process which engaged the management of Sergio Rossi and analyzed internal and external sources regarding sustainability issues. It outlines what Sustainability is to Sergio Rossi by underlining the link with our founding corporate values and defines the three main strategic areas – pillars – that are at the core of our approach to managing a responsible business. As expressed in the Policy, “Sustainability” for Sergio Rossi To ensure the achievement of its main strategic objectives, means being able to pursue quality and artisanal excellence while Sergio Rossi’s Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for fostering environmental protection and social responsibility. the activities related to sustainability and coordinates the Therefore, we undertake to conduct business responsibly Sustainability Committee, an inter-functional management through the integration of economic, environmental, and social working group, established in 2017. aspects within all business processes and functions and by setting The Sustainability Committee was involved in several activities dedicated short and long-term goals intended to progressively in 2019, namely the analysis of stakeholders’ requests, the improve our corporate sustainability performance. periodic revision of the materiality map and the development of the Sustainability Report. These goals are established in accordance with the United Nations Furthermore, Sergio Rossi’s CEO oversees the decision-making Global Compact (UNGC), of which and supervision of internal health, safety and environmental Sergio Rossi is signatory [102-13], and (HSE) aspects. In this respect, the CEO appoints those with the 17 Sustainable Development responsible for the correct implementation of HSE actions and legal compliance. Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Additionally, the CEO coordinates the activities of the Sustainable Development. Human Resources & Facility and the Operations Functions, As such, we are strongly committed to conducting business which are entrusted with the execution of HSE actions and legally and in accordance with the highest ethical standards, the continuous assessment and monitoring of the related by actively working against all forms of corruption, including environmental, economic and social impacts. Furthermore, extortion and bribery. Sergio Rossi aims to extend the awareness the CEO periodically reports to the board about the state of towards sustainability issues to all its business partners, along such activities, potential expenditure needs related to HSE the supply chain, with the purpose of increasing the monitoring aspects, and formally reviews and approves the organization’s of each phase of the products’ production. sustainability report. In case the Human Resources & Facility and the Operations These efforts are guided by Sergio Rossi’s distinctive Functions detect any critical concerns related to HSE, they values, as highlighted in the Group’s Code of Conduct: report these to the CEO. Once having carefully analyzed Integrity, Respect, Responsibility and Loyalty. the matter, the CEO determines the corrective actions to be implemented and appoints the respective people in charge. Furthermore, as presented below, we identified our three main strategic pillars which represent our primary areas of Sergio Rossi’s commitment is not limited to the three strategic commitment for the coming years. areas highlighted in the Policy but includes other pivotal topics in order to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. ENERGY These matters were, in fact, mapped during the process for CHAPTER 4 Efficient and responsible use of energy resources Corporate carbon footprint and GHG defining our Sustainability Strategy together with the updating emissions minimization of the materiality analysis. In line with previous years, the materiality matrix shows the HUMAN Training activities for personal development CHAPTER 2 most relevant topics that reflect Sergio Rossi’s economic, Attraction and retention of best talents CAPITAL Welfare, health and safety environmental and social impacts and/or may influence the decisions of the key stakeholders identified. LOCAL Preserve local artisanal traditions CHAPTER 3 Quality of living and socio-economic COMMUNITIES development of local communities Philantrophic activities 38 Materiality Matrix CREATIVITY, DESIGN AND PROTECTION OF THE ARTISANAL KNOW-HOW CLIENT TRACEABILITY AND SATISFACTION TRANSPARENCY ALONG THE SUPPLY CHAIN INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER ASSESSMENT & DECISIONS USE OF SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO PERFORMANCE AND PACKAGING LOCAL DEVELOPMENT REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS BUSINESS AND ETHICS LEGAL COMPLIANCE ENERGY EFFICIENCY EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY REMUNERATION AND WELFARE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION REDUCTION AND PREVENTION OF WASTE PRODUCTION PROTECTION OF HYDRIC RESOURCES SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL IMPACTS OF SERGIO ROSSI As reported above, the 13 topics above the curve were considered to be material in 2019. The topics Material topics: shown on the top-right quadrant correspond to the most relevant issues both for the Company Energy and for our stakeholders [102-47]. Compared to 2018, we have decided to further stress our effort Human Capital in reducing GHG emissions and our engagement in improving our Energy Efficiency. For that Local Communities reason, the 2 topics have been raised in the materiality matrix given their strategic importance Business Responsibility in our Energy Pillar. Likewise, our culture of integrity and inclusion takes us to underline our commitment in Business ethics and legal compliance with the result of a formalized document and Economic which will be released in 2020. Performance Furthermore, we have associated each topic with the three sustainability pillars included in Non-Material our Sustainability Policy and with an additional area, “Business responsibility and economic performance”, which we consider as a precondition for the correct management of our company. 39 MATERIAL TOPIC OUR COMMITTMENT REPORT SECTION SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: ENERGY Reduction of GHG emissions We are strengthening our efforts to reduce §3.1 Reducing the footprint of our shoes the current levels of our GHG emissions, for what concerns our energy consumption. Our photovoltaic plant represents a good example of our commitment in this direction. Energy efficiency Aware that energy consumption plays a §4.1 Reducing the footprint of our shoes key role in our environmental footprint, we strive to identify and implement energy efficiency initiatives in all our facilities and operations. SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: HUMAN CAPITAL Remuneration and welfare Maximizing the welfare of our employees is §2.2 Promoting a better working life one of our key goals. We have structured dedicated plans to ensure that our facilities are constantly motivating working environments. In the same vein, we also consider equal remuneration, regardless of gender and any kind of diversity, as a strategic factor that brings significant benefits, not only for our people but also for the whole company. Employee health and safety Ensuring the health and safety of our §2.2 Promoting a better working life employees constitutes the basis of our production process. In order to make our plant a 100% safe working environment, we always exceed the legal requirements, and invest in the training and development of our people. Talent attraction and retention We are convinced that the attraction and §2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow retention of the best talent constitutes the fuel of our economic development. As such, we collaborate with renowned actors located in San Mauro Pascoli to attract and train the next generation of artisans. SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Contribution to local development The bulk of our economic activity takes §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance place in the San Mauro district, recognized §2.1 Investing in the artisans of tomorrow at a global level as an area of luxury §3.1 Exporting our artisanal maestria shoemaking excellence. Given the close relationships we have built with local actors and communities, we devote our interest to promote their growth and welfare and we often collaborate for the development of mutually useful solutions. Creativity, design and protection of the Creativity, design and artisanal excellence §1.2 Client centricity artisanal know-how constitute the distinctive elements that §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli make our products elegant and timeless. We consider it our duty both to foster and safeguard our know-how and the uniqueness one of the San Mauro district. Traceability and transparency along the We acknowledge the importance of §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli supply chain ensuring the utmost transparency along our supply chain, in order to guarantee the quality of our Made in Italy products and to ensure the respect of environmental and social issues. This is why we carefully select and evaluate our suppliers, most of which have collaborated with us for a long time, in a climate of mutual trust. 40 MATERIAL TOPIC OUR COMMITTMENT REPORT SECTION BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Business Ethics We firmly believe that an ethical business is §1.1 Corporate governance a successful business. This is why we have §1.3 Risk Management and corporate values redefined our internal Code of Conducts and management of corporate values. Legal compliance We have a strong commitment with §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli respect to national and international legal dispositions regarding eco-toxicological requirements for the raw materials we use in our production process, in order to guarantee the maximum safety for customers and the environment. That’s why in the reporting period, we have committed no legal violations and have not received any sanction or fine, having usually exceeded mandatory norms. Economic performance A solid and sustainable economic §1.1 Sergio Rossi at a glance performance is a necessary element to ensure our growth as well as the appropriate management of sustainability aspects. Therefore, we take care to maximize the economic value we generate, with the aim of benefiting both our shareholders and the local community. Use of sustainable raw materials and We devote the utmost attention to §3.1 Artisanal maestria in San Mauro Pascoli packaging make sure that our raw materials and packaging are sustainably sourced, in order to guarantee the quality and safety of our products and to minimize our environmental and social impacts. Client satisfaction We are committed to deliver an outstanding §1.2 Client centricity client experience focused on the creation of solid and long-lasting emotional bonds with our customers, who represent the focus of our activities and our main interlocutor. FOR FURTHER DETAILS ON THE PROCESS FOR UPDATING THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS, PLEASE REFER TO CHAPTER “METHODOLOGICAL NOTE”. 41 HUMAN CAPITAL /02 Preserving the value of our people SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Convinced that human capital represents an invaluable resource for the company, Sergio Rossi aims to offer a positive and stimulating work environment, in order to motivate all its employees by developing their artisanal and managerial skills. Moreover, Sergio Rossi aims to ensure employees’ welfare, health and safety in excess of normative requirements, intended to guarantee they benefit from a constructive and safe workplace that meets everyone’s needs.” KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY To implement training activities aimed at fostering the technical, managerial and personal development of all its employees. To ensure a stimulating and innovative working environment in order to attract and retain the best talent. MAIN RESULTS 318 employees in EMEA region as of 31 December 2019 63% of our employees are women and 37% are men Approximately 92% of our employees have a permanent contract 65% of our technicians and artisans have been with us for more than 10 years 4,000 hours of training LINK WITH SDGs 318 EMPLOYEES IN EMEA REGION 92% PERMANENT CONTRACT 63% 37% 65% WOMEN MEN OUR TECHNICIANS AND ARTISANS WITH US FOR 4,000 MORE THAN 10 YEARS HOURS OF TRAINING 44 2.1 INVESTING IN THE ARTISANS OF TOMORROW We constantly strive to cultivate our corporate culture based on the concept of employee empowerment and growth. In Sergio Rossi we actively promote an inclusive environment and value the contributions of all the people that commit every day to the success of our brand. In 2019 we continued working on our corporate structure by roles and the opening of new stores. The process has been reviewing internal functions and increasing the number of accompanied by a slight decrease in the turnover rate, shifting employees in strategic areas so to consolidate the corporate from 23.1% in 2018 to 21.8% in 2019 [401-1], partially due to relaunch. several retirements in 2019 and to the typical turnover rates As of 31st December 2019 we employed a total of 318 people, of that characterize the retail sector. which 296 were based in Italy and 22 in our store network in Such changes in the workforce are connected to our internal EMEA [102-8]. The number of employees confirms a steady restructuring, managed by our Human Resources & Facility growth of the company, with an increase in employees of 4.6% function, which in the last three years has led to the creation since last year and even higher growth (+8.2%) compared to of new functions and specialized roles, to respond more 2017. In particular, we would like to stress how the number effectively to market trends and client expectations. of female employees has grown from 186 in 2017 to 201 in A comprehensive breakdown of our employees in terms of 2019, equivalent to +8.1% in two years. Moreover, we have employment contract and type, geography, gender and age is continued increasing our proportion of employees under 30 provided below. (from 15 people in 2016 to 49 in 2019), while registering in the last year a decrease (-6.8%) in employees aged 50 and above, mainly as a result of retirement of the workforce. These latter EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION AS trends demonstrate our commitment to attract young talent OF 31 DECEMBER and to support our employees as their career come to an end, particularly considering our high levels of retention. In line with our commitment to create lasting relationships 19% with our employees, in 2019, 92% of our employees held permanent contracts and 90% were employed on a full-time basis: 87% of employees who work on a part-time contract are women. In addition, all of our employees are covered 47% by collective bargaining agreements as required by the 63% respective country laws. For employees working in the UK and Deutschland, national contracts are applied [102-41]. 18% 16% Furthermore, most of our people are employed in our corporate offices and production site in San Mauro Pascoli, Italy (63%): 139 artisans,13 technicians and 51 employees. Our corporate offices in Milan are composed by 56 employees (18%) while the remaining 19%, work in our stores across the San Mauro Pascoli EMEA Retail Network. EMEA Retail Network (Italy, France, UK, Germany) In line with previous years, we have continued investing in Milan Corporate Offices new hires and registered 70 new employees in 2019, with a Technicians and Artisans rate of 23% mainly connected to the creation of new corporate Corporate Offices 45 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER GR1 102-8 304 318 294 WOMEN 22 permanent contract 8 20 temporary contract 178 170 179 MEN 6 5 4 permanent contract 104 108 112 temporary contract total employees 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND REGION GR1 102-8 318 294 304 11 22 18 279 271 278 ITALY permanent contract temporary contract 9 REST OF EUROPE 13 permanent contract temporary contract 1+3 7+4 total employees 2017 2018 2019 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) 46 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER GR1 102-8 318 294 304 WOMEN full-time contract 30 27 32 part-time contract 174 154 160 MEN 1 4 2 full-time contract 106 113 113 part-time contract total employees 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEES BY OTHER CONTRACT TYPE GR1 102-8 WOMEN interns agency workers MEN interns agency workers total workforce 2017 2018 2019 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) 47 EMPLOYEES BY AGE GRI 102-8 198 200 175 93 74 69 < 30 years 49 26 32 30< x <50 >50 years 2017 2018 2019 NEW EMPLOYEES HIRES BY GENDER AND AGE GRI 401-1 MEN WOMEN 50 50 48 48 48 48 46 46 44 44 42 42 42 40 40 38 38 38 38 36 36 34 34 32 32 32 30 30 28 28 26 26 24 24 22 21 22 20 20 18 18 16 16 14 14 12 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 < 30 years 4 4 30< x <50 2 2 >50 years 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 NEW HIRES RATE GRI 401-1 2017 2018 2019 48 TERMINATIONS BY GENDER AND AGE GRI 401-1 MEN WOMEN 50 50 48 48 48 48 48 46 46 44 44 42 42 40 40 38 38 37 36 36 34 34 32 32 30 30 30 28 27 28 26 26 24 24 22 22 20 20 20 18 17 18 16 16 14 14 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 < 30 years 4 4 30< x <50 2 2 >50 years 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 TURNOVER RATE GRI 401-1 2017 2018 2019 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (AS OF 31 DECEMBER) 49 Talent attraction and retention Firmly convinced that the success of our iconic models is of creating a shared program in the area. 3 out of the 5 young rooted in a stimulating and inclusive working environment, students composing the group hosted by Sergio Rossi had been we strive to attract the best talents and to encourage people in in fact hired at the end of the program. In addition, as a further developing innovative and creative ideas and solutions. result of the positive collaboration with CERCAL, we were able to offer an internship to 2 additional students belonging to Since artisanal excellence is one of our distinctive attributes, in protected categories who completed a 120 hour course learning 2019 we continued investing in the development of talents by traditional shoemaking techniques: at the end of the program strengthening our partnership with CERCAL, one of the most the interns were hired as permanent employees. renowned professional shoemaking schools in Italy. Given the importance of attracting the best talents, we Building on the activities put in place in the past maintained our global referral program in 2019, which enables three years, we renewed our participation in employees to inform the recruiting team of potential candidates the “Shoes Academy” program, an initiative that for current and future job openings. In case a referred person connects unemployed young people with local shoe is hired and successfully completes a probation period of 6 manufacturers, through a dedicated internship months, the referring employee is entitled to receive a financial scheme. reward, which is proportional to the rank of the newly-hired person. The program aims to create professionals in the luxury shoemaking sector with the ability to contribute to all phases Regarding our technicians and artisans, we have of production, from cutting to the preparation of the final maintained a high retention rate (65% for 10 years product and to value the artisanal expertise and the art of staying) even if slightly decreased compared to last luxury shoemaking. Same as last year, the initiative proved to year mainly due to regular retirements, confirming be extremely successful being carried out together with other our ability to create a positive environment and to shoe companies in the San Mauro District, with the objective retain highly skilled workers. EMPLOYEES RETENTION (TECHNICIANS AND ARTISANS) 23 10 29 16 23 30 14 13 11 1 women men 15,36 13,81 11,95 Women Average Seniority Men Average Seniority Total Average Seniority 50 ARTISANS AT WORK 51 Training Programs sr Academy Sergio Rossi has structured specific training programs aimed In order to spread harmonious habits and to enhance sales at developing everyone’s professional and personal skills. Each competences, the key starting point of the project since new hire receives training related to the requirements of the 2017 has been the implementation of the sr Academy, which business program and to our corporate values and policies, goals are to assure a client-centered approach and focus on a which enable us to respect our legal duties. The training personalized service, to increase proactivity and raise passion package includes our Code of Business Conduct, which is for our brand through the knowledge of products. The ambition aimed at spreading the knowledge of our corporate principles of the sr Academy is twofold: following a “glocal” approach, as well as the conduct our employees are required to maintain we aim at training and coaching the store staff all around the when exposed to potential conflicts of interest, bribery and world to create coherence between production, product, sales corruption or gift occurrences. Furthermore, the program and communication; moreover, the store personnel studies includes our internal policies, representing another key part of how to adapt to different requests and situations in a proactive the standard training. manner and how to build up a commercial mindset by using In addition, new hires receive the specific training program their product knowledge in the most personalized way. tailored according to their specific role in the company. It Through this program, sales teams receive additional sessions normally includes a warm welcome into Sergio Rossi world with highlighting the features of the communication and marketing a presentation of the brand history and a full immersion into activities, in line with our digital strategy, as well as specific the uniqueness of our production site in San Mauro Pascoli. training courses dedicated to our craftsmanship and materials’ Both Headquarter and Corporate Offices receive ongoing quality. Furthermore, in 2019 we added a specific focus on training programs through the partnership of various training store teams for both Retail and important Wholesale partners associations (Formazione Fondimpresa). Advanced Excel through small one-to-one groups interaction and “train-thecourses, one-to-one English lessons and specific sessions trainer” programs with the main goals of increasing coaching related to the corporate culture as well as to health and safety attitude towards our retail network. aspects are constantly held on specific schedules. Together with these continuative programs, we constantly promote specific technical courses which help us to maintain sr Ambassador and sr Award a high quality standard of the technical competences of our An exciting three months project was launched in October this people. year, the “sr Ambassador” performance game, which aims to In 2019 a comprehensive course about leather has been held boost in-store activities whilst having fun. It has been specifically by Lineapelle in San Mauro Pascoli factory and attended by designed for the Retail Network employees, with the objective employees and technicians: it provided an in-depth analysis to train, engage and reward our people. The program consists about leather’s principles and peculiarities, giving an overall of different tasks assigned to employees based on role and type understanding about tanning processes, as well as an accurate of store; every task performed, such as e-learning courses, CRM update on toxicological aspects and their evolution and activities or the achievement of sales KPI’s, grant points to implications. obtain rewards. Based on the level reached, employees can win gifts, vouchers for leisure activities and even the opportunity sr World: sr Academy, to experience working in a different store or country. Overall guidelines have been established globally but the tasks rewarded sr Ambassador, sr Awards may be adapted to local needs or to specific market requests. Beside a constant updating of San Mauro Pascoli and Milan It has been a pilot project that involved only EMEA stores, but it teams through the aforementioned initiatives, in 2019 we was so successful that we’d like to extend the initiative throughout particularly focused on developing a structured plan for our the next years, involving USA, China, Hong Kong and Japan. worldwide retail network. In 2019 we also continued the sr Awards, Sergio Rossi worldwide retail competition specifically targeting in-store employees and Since we truly believe in our “Retail Excellence” designed to highlight and reward the best performers of the year. project, aimed at turning the shopping experience This year the contest was enlarged and more structured with into a client-tailored moment (for more information, several themes and additional functionalities, aimed to price the please see §1.2. Client Centricity), we constantly carry Worldwide Best Seller of direct stores. forward training courses and coaching activities, inThe aforementioned initiatives have contributed to further store and in the classroom, through our consolidated strengthening our corporate culture and the synergies existing program sr Academy and several initiatives, as sr Awards between our internal functions. or the incentive game sr Ambassadors. As a result, the number of per capita training hours provided to our employees has increased in the last three years, from 10.2 in 2017 In order to engage our sale and wholesale teams across the to 12.4 in 2019 (+21.6%). In line with the per capita increase, total world throughout a deeper digital interaction, these activities hours of training have reached 3,941 hours in 2019, +7.6% compared are constantly supplemented with regular interactive updates to 2018 [404-1]. Regarding the average training hours by employee on the brand’s own eLearning platform called sr World. category, in 2019 we have registered an increase of activities for Translated in three languages, the platform includes an managers and white collar employees, the same categories which in access to a retail roadmap -which supports inductions 2017 had lower training hours compared to other employee groups. in-storeas well as exercises, videos and contents of our The data highlights our commitment to engage and train, over time, programs sr Academy and sr Ambassador. all categories of our employees, also succeeding in reducing the In 2019, 70% of online exercises have been completed from all gap of the average hours of training by gender. Training programs the worldwide SR users, the aim is to maintain this standard of are constantly updated according to departments’ specific needs, participation in 2020, introducing new activities every ten days. market requests and new requirements. 52 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY GENDER GRI 404-1 11.7 11.9 12.4 12.1 12.2 12.7 12.4 9.3 10.2 women men group 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL NUMBER OF HOURS OF TRAINING GRI 404-1 3,941 3,664 3,018 2017 2018 2019 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY GRI 404-1 39.6 32.2 28.4 21.2 15.6 16.2 15.1 13 12.1 12.4 10.2 6.7 6.6 4.3 4.5 2017 2018 2019 executives managers white collars blue collars group 53 Performance Appraisal We believe that one of the most important aspects of retaining the best talents is an equal and fair evaluation of employees’ performance. For this reason, each employee sets and updates annual targets during a dedicated meeting with his/ her supervisor, depending on his/her rank and seniority. During the year, supervisors define a set of milestones to be achieved by their supervisees and carefully monitor their progress through continuous coaching activities. Supervisors are open to listening to employees’ requests and try to satisfy these, when appropriate. Given the positive results of the “Calibration of talents”, we have continued holding an annual meeting of all directors, aimed at sharing feedback about the overall performance of their team, highlighting best practices and model behaviors to be potentially replicated across the organization. Moreover, we continued to apply our incentive schemes as follows: an MBO (Management By Objective) and an MBO+C specific for commercial roles, for executives and managers population, both intended to establish a set of shared rules regarding individual performance, company yearly objectives and appraisal criteria. Bonus are distributed based on the Company’s and individuals’ achievement of pre-determined targets, agreed with their supervisors. A special incentive “Premio Di Risultato” for workers and employees, is negotiated with Unions based on yearly production and Company targets. In 2019 we maintained the existing commission scheme for store employees, with the intention of rewarding performance by allocating benefits at an individual level, instead of merely at a store level, as was previously the case. The updated scheme is intended to boost the individual and collective performance, given that employees could receive both an individual and a pooled commission. It is also designed to encourage personal commitment and motivation. As of today, the new commission scheme has been adopted in the EMEA and APAC and is currently extended to Japan. 54 2.2 PROMOTING A BETTER WORKING LIFE To nurture a positive work environment, we invest the utmost attention to the quality of employees’ working life, a crucial element to maintain our corporate reputation and reach economic results. Indeed, we are proactively managing the health, safety and welfare aspects linked to the life of our people, and in the past few years we have been introducing a series of brand new initiatives enabling us to better address these matters, with a specific focus on the San Mauro Pascoli working environment. In San Mauro, health and safety aspects are directly managed by our Facility Function, responsible for monitoring activities as well as implementing a comprehensive set of health and safety activities aimed at maximizing the protection we guarantee to our employees, often by exceeding standard requirements. The team is also in charge of reporting health and safety performance on a monthly basis and of transmitting it to an evaluation team, including the CEO, the Chief Operating Officer and the Production Director, in order to highlight how the safety performance of our employees is evolving. In early 2017 we put in place a yearly check of the correct functioning of the aspiration system of powders and solvents within the San Mauro factory, which led to a satisfactory result with no detection of malfunctioning. Since 2018, the introduction of vending solution for personal protective equipment (PPE) helped safety managers to oversee the correct use of PPE thus increasing the awareness of their correct use. We registered 3 injuries in 2019, which is equal to a 40% reduction compared to 2018. In line with previous years, no injuries were categorized as “high-consequence” as they did not result in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker could not expect to recover fully to pre-injury health status within 6 months [403-9]. ARTISAN AT WORK GRI 403-9 2017 2018 2019 Total number of recordable work-related injuries 8 5 3 of which high-consequence work-related injuries 0 0 0 Number of hours worked 846,275 466,258 482,856 Recordable work-related injuries rate 9.5 10.7 6.2 [403-9:2019] NOTE: RECORDABLE WORK-RELATED INJURIES RATE IS CALCULATED AS THE NUMBER OF RECORDABLE WORKRELATED INJURIES / NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED MULTIPLIED BY 1,000,000. HIGH-CONSEQUENCE WORK-RELATED INJURIES RATE IS CALCULATED AS THE NUMBER OF HIGH-CONSEQUENCE WORK-RELATED INJURIES / NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED MULTIPLIED BY 1,000,000. 55 In relation to employee welfare, in 2019 we consolidated the new Moreover, the platform is available via web from desktop and system for senior and middle managers which enables them to mobile for the HR Department, the managers and the employees. convert the full amount of their bonus, thus exempt from taxes, We are still devoted to Workplace, the interactive internal platform directly into welfare services, such as leisure activities, courses, that facilitates more transparent and direct communication of sports, elderly care, supplementary pension, etc. Moreover, a activities, events or campaigns, covering the entire Sergio Rossi second reward with similar characteristics has been defined and global network whether and spreading the energy amongst our it is connected to the business results of the year. Furthermore, community. Ultimately, the growth of the use of this platform may a new welfare program has also been implemented for all foster the development of new corporate welfare initiatives and employees, allowing them to choose whether to receive payment enhance opinions and ideas-sharing at all levels. of their Production Bonus in terms of monetary contribution As such, we are continuously focused on evaluating new digital or in welfare services, thus exempted from taxation. tools which could simplify internal procedures among all company In line with our corporate digitalization strategy, in 2019 we functions. finalized the optimization of a HR management software that allows to integrate the HR Workflow in one platform, reducing Finally, regarding parental leave, the number of employees significantly procedures about payments, presences, travels. All benefitting from maternity or paternity leave has been almost employees have their own virtual page with personal documents constant compared to 2018 (from a total of 27 to 29 in 2019). All (payslip, attendance sheet, etc), corporate communications employees who ended their mandatory parental leave returned to and memorandums, immediately categorized and archived. work in 2019, besides two people who have yet to complete [401-3]. PARENTAL LEAVE / GRI 401-3 2017 2018 2019 Employees entitled to benefit from a maternity leave 127 144 150 Employees entitled to benefit from a paternity leave 109 114 117 Total employees entitled to benefit from parental leave 236 258 267 Number of employees who have benefited from a maternity leave 26 20 22 Number of employees who have benefited from a paternity leave 5 7 7 Total employees who have benefited from a parental leave 31 27 29 Of which: number of employees who have benefited also from a flexible distribution of the voluntary 25 19 19 maternity leave Of which: number of employees who have benefited also from a flexible distribution of the voluntary 5 5 5 paternity leave Of which: Number of employees who have benefited also from a flexible distribution of the 30 24 24 voluntary parental leave Of which: number of employees who returned after their maternity leave 26 18 19 Of which: number of employees who returned after their paternity leave 5 2 2 Of which: Number of employees who returned after their parental leave 31 20 21 Number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of maternity leave 26 18 19 Number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of paternity leave 4 7 7 Total employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave 30 25 26 56 ARTISANS AT WORK 57 LOCAL COMMUNITIES /03 Fostering local districts SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Sergio Rossi is highly committed to promoting the growth, cultural development and welfare of the San Mauro Pascoli territory, where it concentrates its business activity, by involving the population and local stakeholders in the creation of new opportunities and initiatives based on local needs and expectations.” KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY To preserve the local artisanal tradition. To contribute to enhanching the quality of living and the socioeconomic development of local communities where the Company operates. To implement philanthropic activities in line with Company’s values and objectives. MAIN RESULTS 23% of our suppliers are located in the Emilia-Romagna region, 83% of which are in the same province of San Mauro Pascoli 1,500 pairs daily production capacity 95% of our suppliers are Italian 70% of the cutting activity takes place in house LINK WITH SDGs 95% OF OUR SUPPLIERS 1,500 PAIRS DAILY PRODUCTION ARE ITALIAN CAPACITY 23% SUPPLIERS LOCATED IN 70% IN HOUSE CUTTING EMILIA-ROMAGNA, MOSTLY ACTIVITY IN THE LOCAL DISTRICT 60 3.1 ARTISANAL MAESTRIA IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI Artisanal production, worldwide distribution Since the early 20th century, the art of shoemaking has always Nowadays, we still feel the responsibility not only to keep alive been associated with the concept of Made in Italy. Indeed, the the art of shoemaking but also to leverage this tradition as a capability of entwining beauty and functionality in daily use means to foster the development of the community and the objects is a unique feature of Italian artisans, who have always district in which we operate. That is the reason why the vision put their genius at the service of their clients with the genuine of Mr. Sergio Rossi is still vivid in San Mauro Pascoli, thanks to ambition of creating works of art capable of making their owners the presence of over 150 artisans and technicians, who make our stand out from the crowd. This unmatched “maestria” has been Company an internationally renowned example of excellence fully internalized by Sergio Rossi since its foundation. Famously, by daily employing their skills and know-how to create unique our founder used to say that “the comfort of a shoe comes from masterpieces. its shape. I maybe made no more than ten and they are what I cherish the most. Each shape is a part of me”, demonstrating his attachment to the purest act of artistic creation. ARTISANS AT WORK 61 The fulcrum of our commitment: the Magic Kingdom Within the factory, our Magic Kingdom, we are able to carry conducted by recognized high quality suppliers. Furthermore, in out projects from the designer’s sketch to the realization of the order to increase control over our supply chain, in 2019 we also finished product, undergoing all stages of development. carried out a strong research activity on ground related to new The plant comprises a factory equipped with 2 production lines sewing Italian laboratories that helped increasing the number and 2 warehouses, storing bottoms, leather and accessories, the of trusty high-quality partners in a critical production phase prototype department and a logistic hub 11,700 sqm large, capable as sewing. The project, carried out by our Supply Chain dept of dispatching up to 5,000 pairs of shoes per day all over the world. together with Buying dept, is incorporated in a larger perspective of recruiting local Italian expertise, giving them the possibility to Together with the capability of engineering our shoes, carry over their small business of excellence supporting Made in the factory is vertically integrated to all production Italy productions. stages: from Cutting to Finishing (see side box “Production Steps”). It has a production capacity of The introduction and the stabilization of young talented artisans about 1,500 pairs a day, choosing from a range of nearly is the leitmotiv of the improvement of our manufacturing 200 models and over 1,800 SKUs 1 each collection. processes, not only related to cutting phases but to all processes. For this reason, we have created specific training for young Decades of accumulated know-how combined with a focus on employees working in production and technical areas. This constant innovation: indeed, Sergio Rossi’s strategic approach commitment is also enhanced by the collaboration with can be considered similar to a startup’s, despite the Company’s CERCAL, thanks to which we ensure an adequate generational long history. Furthermore, as an additional added value, turnover (for more information, please see §2. Preserving the the centralization of shoe production in San Mauro Pascoli value of our people). Moreover, in 2019 we continued the job guarantees the excellence of the Made in Italy savoir faire. rotation scheme between different production functions and “training on the job” activities, dedicated to the use of specific Last year we experimented the sneaker collection production machinery and equipment. In this way our technicians and in factory with great success. We hired new artisans and we artisans, besides improving their technical abilities, can gain a developed new manufacturing technical expertise aimed at comprehensive and interconnected vision of all phases of the guaranteeing to our sportive dedicated collection the same engineering process. quality levels and uniqueness that characterize our brand. In 2019, we took a further step towards the centralization of We constantly work on reducing the environmental production activities by internalizing part of the men’s collection. impacts of our activities, by adopting a circular economy We are particularly satisfied of these new projects, since they approach and by implementing our environmental highlight the fact that we can innovate being respectful of responsibility policy across the business. our tradition and, above all, guaranteeing the highest level of supervision along the entire production process. Our upcycling activities performed through our spare part request service, still confirm that the aftersales service is deeply In addition, in 2019 we continued the internalization of cutting appreciated by our clients. In fact, whether through our CRM, phases started in 2017 with the installation of a new cutting our DOS stores or our Franchisee partners, it is possible to ask machine and the availability of joint teams of experienced and for a replacement of a shoe component such as heel, strass, tags young artisans – enabling to reach the 70% of internalization of and laces if accidentally damaged by the client. The fulfilment cutting activities. By doing so, we ensure to pass on the knowof such requests is made by our artisans who are able to restore how from generation to generation, spreading a sustainability the timeless elegance and charm of our creations, thanks to their mindset among our artisans while having an almost complete expertise and traditional craftsmanship. Thereby, the aftersales ownership of the cutting process. service provides the clients’ defective shoes with a new life and it Both the internalization of our sneaker and men’s collection endlessly guarantees the quality standards and typical comfort together with a stronger presence of cutting activity in factory of Sergio Rossi. In 2019 we managed 280 after sale requests allows us to enhance the technical competence of our artisans, coming from clients who wanted to restore their models through while limiting collaboration with external parties to specific tasks our service. SERGIO ROSSI PLANT 1 A Stock Keeping Unit (SKU) is an ID storage code for a product, based on combinations of different parameters like colors and shapes. 62 PRODUCTION STEPS CUTTING This process is based on automated cutting machines, hollow cutters as well as highly-skilled cutters, able to perform this operation manually, as their experience enables them to extract the best from a leather piece. Therefore, all prototype samples and special pairs are always cut manually. SEAMING All the upper parts coming from the previous cutting phase are sewn together thanks to the expertise of hand-sewing operators. Often, at this point specific accessories, such as buckles, stones or embroideries, depending on the characteristics of each model, are inserted. LASTING The lasting phase comprises a series of operations leading to the assembling of the upper and the other components, such as the sole and the heel. Our artisans’ precision and ability to adapt their manual work depending on the specificities of each model add further value to the final product. FINISHING Representing the end of the production process, this phase comprises all the polishing, waxing and retouching activities. Our dedicated team is entrusted with implementing these final steps before placing the final product in its package. 63 The importance of sourcing We are committed to contributing to the quality of living and also ask our suppliers to adhere to our Restricted Substances the socio-economic development of local communities through List (RSL) (please refer to the box concerning customer health the minimization of social and environmental impacts related and safety), containing all the specific limitations in the use of to the production of our shoes. In addition, it is crucial for us to chemical substances, which suppliers have to comply with before maximize scrutiny over our supply chain, in order to ensure the we can accept their products in our warehouses. The Buying respect of appropriate quality levels. Office relies on a consolidated network of raw material suppliers, To do so, when developing a new collection, Sergio Rossi’s Supply which have been carefully evaluated in the past few years thanks Chain function coordinates with the Research & Style function to dedicated Quality/Cost/Effectiveness rankings, which are to clearly establish the range of raw materials and semi-finished constantly monitored. components which will be needed to realize at an industrial scale the models included in the new collection. The selection of new We are proud to underline that leather and components suppliers for this purpose may be a lengthy and complex process, of a Sergio Rossi shoe are rigorously Made in Italy. given the high quality and reliability we require from all our Leather is the most important material of our business partners. production, not only for quantity and value, but also because it defines the style of Sergio Rossi’s shoes. Furthermore, the Supply Chain function is entrusted with the Therefore, we rely on Italian tanneries for 100% of the smooth and correct functioning of all the supplier selection, leather procured. monitoring and control phase, as well as of the inbound and outbound logistics operations. The function interacts closely The strong collaboration created with our external raw materials with the Logistics and Buying offices, which are responsible for and semi-finished products providers has been possible also each specific task involved in the selection and shipping of raw thanks to the constant commitment to keeping and strengthening materials, accessories, semi-finished and finished products. our relationships with local and historic providers, while Given the strategic role of suppliers, we put in place a structured simultaneously extending our network, in a constant pursuit of system to ensure their appropriate selection and monitoring transparent, efficient and reliable partners who share our values. to guarantee consistent levels of quality; for this reason, we are In addition, we strongly rely on the uniqueness and force of the constantly in contact with them and we visit their production Forlì and Cesena district, gathering around 200 small companies sites regularly. and 3.000 people working with the best shoemaking brands in the world. These local suppliers provide us more than the 23% The supplier research activity driven by the Buying Office is sealed of our overall procurement volumes2 and, more generally, 95% of by the signing of our supply agreements comprised of a series of our procurement of raw materials, products and services comes ethical and environmental clauses that have to be accepted in from Italian suppliers, while the remaining 5% comes from the order to agree a commercial collaboration. At the same time, we European area [102-9; 204-1]. NOTE: THE DATA ARE ASSESSED IN TERMS OF 4% ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE PURCHASED MATERIALS 5% AND SERVICES AND COVERS THE ENTIRE PROCUREMENT 19% BUDGET RELATED TO THE PRODUCTION PROCESS. THE “LOCAL” CATEGORY COMPRISES SUPPLIERS BASED IN THE EMILIA ROMAGNA 23% REGION (ITALY) AND IN SAN MARINO, THEN FURTHER SUBDIVIDED INTO THE FORLÌCESENA PROVINCE (“VERY LOCAL”), LOCATED IN THE EMILIA ROMAGNA REGION AND CHARACTERIZED BY THE SIGNIFICANT PROXIMITY TO THE SAN MAURO FACTORY, AND THE REST OF THE REGION; THE “ITALY” CATEGORY COMPRISES Forlì-Cesena Province THE MARCHE, VENETO, LOMBARDIA, CAMPANIA AND Emilia Romagna TOSCANA REGIONS; WHILE 72% Local Suppliers THE “EUROPE” CATEGORY COMPRISES ALBANIAN, Rest of Italy SPANISH AND SERBIAN Europe SUPPLIERS. 2 Our overall procurement volumes comprise purchase of raw materials (leather, plateaus, soles, insoles and heels); other raw materials like ancillary components (glues and solvents) and packaging; finished products (related to external production of finished products); and services (like cutting and stitching activities). Concerning the computation of the spending on local suppliers, we have calculated percentages based on the value of the purchased products and services, rather than the weight. 64 Given our support of the Made in Italy concept and the high Total procurement volumes in 2019 equaled 342.5 tons, 18.6% qualitative standards characterizing our products, in 2016 we more than in 2018 [301-1]. Specifically, the number of raw started a Quality Project, aimed at formalizing, consolidating materials used for production purposes increased from 173 tons and redesigning the procedures and operations leading to our in 2018 to 199.3, mainly due to an increase in production. daily shoemaking activities. In this respect, we mapped over The weight of packaging procured, in line with production120 steps needed to obtain the final product, in order to align related raw materials, increased by 24% compared to 2018 levels. the organizations to our quality and value targets. At the same All our packaging materials, including boxes and shopping bags, time, we have defined in a clear way the objectives, methods and are FSC-certified (see the box below). instruments needed to perform periodic controls on the quality of the raw materials, components and semi-finished products we receive from our suppliers, as well as on our final products. This long-term oriented project has been implemented thanks to the active participation of all the people who work every day with passion and attention to processes, and who represent the crucial strength of our brand. NOTE: REFERRING TO THE CUTTING AND SEAMING PHASE WE RELY ON OUR INTERNAL PRODUCTION CAPACITY AND ON EXTERNAL SPECIALIZED SUPPLIERS, WHICH ARE CONSTANTLY MONITORED IN TERMS OF QUALITY 65 RAW MATERIALS AND PACKAGING BY WEIGHT [TONS] GRI 301-1 CATEGORY TYPE MATERIAL 2017 2018 2019 Production-related Leather 70.8 68.2 76.1 Fabric 3.684 Elastic Fabric 0.2 Plateaus 0.6 1.1 1.0 Insoles 17.9 19.9 25.2 Outsoles 49.3 58.4 66.6 Heel Covers 0.5 Top Heels 0.9 Heels 14.2 19.9 23.9 Ancillary materials Glues 3.0 3.2 2.8 Solvents 2.4 2.3 1.4 Quality Labels 0.3 0.1 0.01 Box Labels 0.5 0.6 0.6 Packaging Labels 0.2 0.2 0.2 Boxes 59.8 64.0 70.8 Shopping Bags 10.5 6.4 12.1 Tissue Paper For Packaging 15.3 14.5 17.3 Transport Packaging 22.6 29.9 39.5 Dust Bags 2.6 Total 267.4 288.7 345.4 THE DATA COMPRISED WITHIN THE TABLE REFER TO THE PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN SAN MAURO PASCOLI. FSC Certification The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international, independent, non-profit organization that protects forests for future generations. The FSC sets standards under which forests and companies are certified. FSC certification ensures that products come from responsibly managed forests that provide environmental, social and economic benefits. The FSC certification program is an independent third-party scheme. FSC inspections are carried out by 17 independent certification bodies across the world. These bodies are in turn accredited by ASI (Accreditation Service International). 66 Our efforts to guarantee customer health and safety The health and safety of our customers is central to Sergio raw materials. In this respect, we rely on accredited chemical Rossi. Our Company has always been committed to monitoring laboratories, conducting tests on the raw materials we receive, the materials it uses in its production activities, in accordance to guarantee our legal compliance. Each commodity category, with national and international legislation imposing the such as leathers and textiles, has its own dedicated quality respect of eco-toxicological requirements. These requirements control plan that ranges from 10 to 15 substances to be verified. are intended to limit the use of prohibited chemical substances In 2019, we doubled the number of chemical tests performed on and to guarantee the maximum safety for customers and the materials (from 85 to 180 chemical tests). Finally, for specific environment, according to the REACH regulation 3. Therefore, cases, we also carry out mechanical tests, such as tensile and Sergio Rossi has created an internal Restricted Substances List deformation tests, in order to test materials’ physical properties (RSL), shared with all our raw materials suppliers as an annex and their conformity to international standards. [416-1] to the supply agreement. In 2019 there was only one case of non-compliance with In addition, we have adopted an internal control plan aimed Chinese strict regulation solved with an administrative at implementing chemical controls upon the reception of our solution. [416-2]. 3 The REACH Regulation of the European Union (EC 1907/2006) has been adopted to improve the protection of human health and the environment from the risks that can be posed by chemicals, while enhancing the competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry. It also promotes alternative methods for the hazard assessment of substances in order to reduce the number of tests on animals. 67 3.2 CULTURAL AND PHILANTHROPIC ACTIVITIES Our Archive: Think Heritage, Play digital: a Living Heritage Our Digital Platform Sergio Rossi has a rich heritage which we believe is the key to In order to further increase its accessibility and in line with our successfully leading the way for future generations. With this corporate strategy, the physical archive has been concurrently idea we started the Living Heritage project, aimed at preserving digitalized to better organize and promote the memory of the and fostering the cultural heritage of the brand and of the brand. artisanal district in which we operate. Today more than 15,000 records are ready to be The Living Heritage project has been intended primarily to consulted through our digital systems and the work is provide a narrative capable of enhancing the uniqueness and constantly in progress thanks to a dedicated Heritage history of our brand, by gathering all the main elements of its Team fully engaged with the project. distinctive DNA. The creation of our corporate archive should be considered a pivotal move in this sense, aimed at providing The digital Archive does not just provide information storage designers with an extremely wide range of past models and and consultation advantages, but becomes a new way of telling sketches to take inspiration from. the story of the brand. The platform allows today in-depth researches able to guide the user on new paths of reading From the launch of the Heritage Project in January through unexpected relationships between images, documents, 2017, over 6,000 historical models from all over the photographs, places, people, of the past but also more recent and world have been collected and restored, representing contemporary, which continue to enrich and bring to life the the history of Sergio Rossi’s creative genius since the story of Sergio Rossi. foundation of the Company in the 50’s. Simultaneously, more than 11,000 documents drawings, look books, Hence, it will funnel the creation of applications and tools advertising and editorial images have been recovered specifically conceived for a greater customer involvement in the and digitized. discovery of Sergio Rossi’s founding values and history. A passionate and intensive initiative, which allowed the creation of a physical historic archive (product and iconography), a digital platform dedicated to product history and the brand’s image, and an exhibition space showing for the first time the history of Sergio Rossi along a functional and emotional path within the setting of the Magic Kingdom, our factory of wonders. 2017 BEGINNING OF THE 350 DAYS FOR THE LAUNCH 640 SQM DEDICATED TO OUR 11,800 DOCUMENTS AND IMAGES PROJECT OF THE LIVING HERITAGE HISTORY DIGITALIZED PROJECT 1,100 HISTORICAL 308 EXPOSED 3,250 RESTORED MODELS, 6,000 SHOES AND OTHER LASTS LASTS PHOTOGRAPHED, STORED ACCESSORIES ARCHIVED IN AND CATALOGED SAN MAURO PASCOLI AS OF TODAY 200 GUESTS JOINED OUR LIVING ≈70 YEARS OF HERITAGE ARCHIVE AND OUR HISTORY MAGIC KINGDOM 69 Our Living Heritage The exhibition space, created by the architect Marco Costanzi his collaborations with designers as Alaïa, Versace, Dolce & and strategically located within our Magic Kingdom in San Gabbana, leading to the wall of our most iconic stretch boots, Mauro Pascoli, is divided into three different moments, each of so loved by supermodels in the 90’s. them characterized by a spatial and functional level. The first step that welcomes the visitor is the “Gallery of Lasts”, where the Alongside the Living Archive is finally located the “Living history of the brand is reinterpreted through its distinguishing Emotions” area: a part of the exhibition where the world of Sergio element: the last. Once passed through the gallery, the visitor Rossi can be experienced through a strong visual and emotional enjoys the heart of the Archive, the so called “Living Archive”, impact by showing the most iconic models and themes that have where part of the vintage collection is conserved, and the “Living always represented the different souls of SR women. A special Emotions” area, a magic path through which the different souls section is here dedicated to the rebirth of the brand: inspirations of the brand come back to life . from the past are reinterpreted with a modern twist in our contemporary collections as sr1, srMilano or SERGIO show. The The “Living Archive” is indeed mainly conceived as DNA of the brand is indeed the inspiration point for every new an area for consultation, research and work. Over collection and it shows, through a constant dialogue between 500 pairs of selected shoes spanning almost 70 years past and present, how the archive is the crucial starting point for of history, but also heels, embroideries, as well as the design and development of each collection. monographs and catalogues showing multiple links with From the new beginning of the Company in 2016, with the 90’s the shoe, are stored in that area. model which inspired the first sr1 collection, to all the several projects inspired by our rich heritage: the srMilano, the srMaiko In order to enhance the effectiveness of this working area, and the SERGIO collection, which label is a geometric re-edition the space has been organized into several product categories of an archival logo dating back to the Seventies, and which that narrate the Italian Maestria of our eponymous founder dynamic pattern enlighted the interiors of our showroom in Sergio Rossi: from his debut with colorful wedges and Milan, as well as many other stores, windows and pop-ups across sandals, to mules, mocassins and pumps, first witnesses of the world throughout the entire 2019. 70 ICONIC MODELS EXHIBITION 71 72 CHIARA FERRAGNI VISITING OUR LIVING HERITAGE ARCHIVE In 2019 we recorded an increasing request for visiting our Living Heritage Archive and our Magic Kingdom. A great variety of visitors, including stakeholders, artists, creatives, commercial partners, influencers have been thrilled to experience such Moments of Wonder. Beside the fashion community, in 2019 we also opened the doors of our Archive to post graduate schools and universities such as Università Commerciale L.Bocconi, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore di Milano and Università degli Studi di Torino. One of our future objectives is, in fact, to further increase the number of visits so to unveil the plant as a center of excellence and to share with all stakeholders the passion and the magic behind both our artisanal work and our Kingdom. Sergio Rossi’s vision and passion are at the heart of the dream that still lives today within the Company, so we constantly aim to spread this powerful message, celebrating his history not only on our San Mauro Pascoli site but through many special events all around the world. The first event where this could happen was held in Japan in May 2019, in occasion of the Press Day dedicated to the Fall-Winter collection. Alongside with the women’s and men’s collection, we displayed also 12 vintage items, dating from the 1985 and the early 2000. The event took place at B&B Italia’s showroom in Tokyo, in partnership with Aston Martin and Flos, in a sophisticated atmosphere made of Italian design and curated craftsmanship. More than 400 guests had the chance to deeply get in touch with the true authentic DNA of the Company and got extremely engaged and excited to discover the true archive collection. The format was so successful that it is meant to be reproposed in the near future, both during press and retails events. 73 Art in the factory The corporate archive is rooted on the idea that there are multiple similarities between a Sergio Rossi product and art. In pursuing this approach, we decided to create a museum of contemporary art in the Sergio Rossi factory in San Mauro Pascoli, where fashion and artistic production coexist. The project aims to enhance the history of the brand by researching and supporting contemporary artistic productions. The aim of the project is to start, together with the artist, an exchange of experiences by developing a work of art born and raised in the factory. The first three works of art installed in 2018 in San Mauro Pascoli have been selected to mark the beginning of an exhibition path in the factory, thus setting up a dialogue with the history of the brand, the nature of the place and its territory. The common thread of the three works of art is indeed the dialogue with the place, with the context and also with Romagna and the story of Sergio Rossi. That is why we chose Italian artists, which are only the first of a series, who serve to make the factory a more accessible space. SIGNATURE Vedovamazzei Neon light cm 400x49.8 The company’s telephone number written by the CEO Riccardo Sciutto made from neon and called “Signature”. Made in blown glass with a traditional technique in Milan, the work has an immediate visual impact since it is 4 meters long and indicating the human personalization of the brand and it is also visible from the outside. 75 VELA AL TERZO (ARVËDAS) Ettore Favini Fabrics, leather Dimensions determined by space A delicate and elegant sail of 2 meters in diameter, installed in the highest part of the entrance in the hall of Sergio Rossi, just like a sail of an ancient boat. This work was realized with leathers and model patterns coming from our past collections. Favini, in fact, spent a week together with our artisans choosing materials and patterns coming both from the archive but also from the living memories of the workers. In so doing, he created a design sewn on the surface of the sail, which is precisely hanging with sailing ropes as a symbol and memory of Sergio Rossi's history. 76 BILLDOR Davide Allieri Brass cm 370x300x250 A 3 meter high structure made of brass plates assembled on site. The choice of the position, in relation to the rigorous architecture of the factory, is a sign visible from the highway in a way that all passersby can not fail to notice the golden structure that represents an advertising bill, emptied of its media content. A tribute to the substance of a brand like Sergio Rossi, who does not need images or bright lights, but lives his story. 77 78 Supporting arts and culture Giving back to the community Besides the creation of a museum of contemporary art within Our commitment to carry out philanthropic activities by our factory in San Mauro, we also collaborated with different involving the population and local stakeholders has been carried local and national art exhibitions related to fashion and to forward with the contribution to charity and fundraising events Italian design, mainly by providing unique models from our during all 2019. historical archive. We were delighted to support our community, lending four In April we hosted an in-store event at Milano Montenapoleone, sandals for the exhibition “Dagli Eroi alle Dive, il Sandalo”, that to support the Charity Foundation “Children in crisis”, that we had place in Villa Torlonia, San Mauro Pascoli. sustained with a corporate donation with the 15% of the sales It is through the sandal that San Mauro Pascoli borough, in raised during the day. Same 15% was also devolved during “God’s collaboration with the Shoes Academy CERCAL, paid tribute to love we deliver”, another event held in New York Madison store, the history of our local artisanal small businesses since the birth in collaboration with the PR Agency managed by Alejandra in the 50’s to the established luxury brands they became today. Cicognani. It is so displayed a vivid narration about this specific model and its values through different époques, in a constant and colorful As past years, we prosecuted our regular participation to charity dialogue with the present. initiatives organized by malls and local associations, like “The Green Life” in Rinascente Milano (aimed at sensitizing about all We also participated at the international exhibition “Animalia ecological and environmental issues) or “Shopping in Rosa” event Fashion”, held at “Museo della Moda e del Costume di Palazzo in Milan (supporting the fight against breast cancer). Pitti” in Florence from January 8th to May 5th. The exhibition, In November we also sponsored a special evening talk supporting showcasing items created between 2000 and 2018, explored women’s empowerment in Dubai, in cooperation with our the relationship between haute couture and an unexpected local partner, hosting most influential Arabic women and animal world. Eighteen rooms filled with this juxtaposition entrepreneurs rising their voices and driving passion in favour of contemporary fashion items sharing the spotlight with the of the women’s emancipation and participation in every field and zoological inspiration behind them. Through plenty of swans, culture. hedgehogs, lobsters, beetles and crocodiles, the spectator come across a Sergio Rossi sandals as true protagonists of the butterflies’ room, the shells room and the corals room. Trade associations Moreover, in 2019 one of our most historic shoes from the We are strongly committed to creating synergies with Italian archive has been requested for the theme tune of the Italian TV trade associations, which support the development of the drama “Made in Italy”, dedicated to the birth of prét-à-porter industry and publish sectorial studies that are key to our in our country during the 70’s. For the first time ever in Italy, business. a TV series uses original period clothes: beside us, some of As Sergio Rossi S.p.A., we are currently members of several fashion’s biggest names such as Albini, Curiel, Krizia, Missoni trade associations, comprising Altagamma, The National and Valentino have opened up their archives to lend clothing Chamber for Italian Fashion, Montenapoleone District and and accessories to the production, contributing to build a more Sammauroindustria, and we participate in their associative authentic perspective of Italian fashion. regular meetings [102-12; 102-13]. 79 ENERGY /04 Reducing the footprint of our shoes SUSTAINABILITY POLICY “Sergio Rossi is aware of the increasing challenges posed by climate change and it is committed to monitor and progressively reduce its energy consumption as well as to mitigate the GHG emissions related to its activities. In particular, the San Mauro Pascoli plant is the epicenter of Sergio Rossi’s sustainability activities as well as the fulcrum of all its production activities.” KEY COMMITMENTS OF THE POLICY To develop strategies to promote the efficient and responsible use of energy resources such as the improvement of energy efficiency of the production plants and of the proprietary stores within the retail network. To continuously measure the corporate carbon footprint and its sources, and to identify further initiatives aimed at minimizing GHG emissions. MAIN RESULTS -23% of purchased electricity in 2019 with respect to 2018 thanks to the high-efficiency heat pump and the energy metering system installed in San Mauro Pascoli 30% annual reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions linked to business travel by air, train and rented cars 177 tonCO2 avoided thanks to our photovoltaic system 20% of total electricity consumption of SMP plant is produced by our photovoltaic system. This is equal to 492,043 kWh, corresponding to 1,771 GJ LINK WITH SDGs -23% OF PURCHASED ELECTRICITY 177 TONS OF CO2 AVOIDED WITH RESPECT OF 2018 30% ANNUAL REDUCTION OF 20% OF TOTAL ELECTRICITY SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS CONSUMPTION OF SMP PLANT IS PRODUCED BY OUR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM 82 4.1 THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF ENERGY RESOURCES FOR EMISSIONS REDUCTION Sergio Rossi is aware of the challenges posed by climate change and believes in the essential role of business in addressing these issues; as such, we are committed to reducing the environmental footprint of our activities and, also following the signing of the UN Global Compact, Sergio Rossi has started implementing a series of interventions set out to achieve a long-term reduction of its main impacts. Specifically, the Facility team is in charge of identifying and The introduction of the metering system allowed us to have implementing initiatives aimed at comprehensively increasing a more comprehensive overview of our electricity demand, energy efficiency thus reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. partially covered by the photovoltaic system installed in our In line with last years, consumption patterns showed that the factory in San Mauro. Since the construction phase of the plant, in majority of our energy demand is linked to our San Mauro fact, we planned the structure of the roof in order to augment its Pascoli factory and, in particular, it is composed by three main exposure to the sun. Our forward-looking vision enabled us a few components: electricity, both purchased from the grid and selfyears later to install 3,500 square meters of photovoltaic panels. generated, natural gas and the diesel consumed by corporate This photovoltaic system represents excellence in the San Mauro vehicles. Indeed, 2019 has been a pivotal year in terms of district, a virtuous example of sustainable architecture. Around environmental performances thanks to the investments made 20% of the total electricity we consume in San Mauro plant is and the great attention paid to consumption optimization. As a produced by our photovoltaic system and is directly used by the result, we successfully managed to gradually decouple the energy production plant, while the rest is purchased from the grid. Our consumption of the San Mauro Pascoli plant and production renewable energy consumption, coming from our photovoltaic volumes. plant, in 2019, was equivalent to 1,771 GJ [302-1]. Moreover, in 2019 we sold around 356 GJ to the grid. Thanks to our efforts, This achievement is the result of a 5-year path including in 2019 alone we have generated CO2 savings of around 177 tons investments related both to energy monitoring and machinery. of CO2, equal to the greenhouse gases emitted by about 100 The system installed in 2018 and fully operational since 2019, passenger cars, which travel for 10,000 km each. has been the driving force of the project since enabled us to rely Finally, in 2019 we continued the substitution of halogen lamps on detailed daily energy consumption data. During 2019, the with LED models by converting the lighting system: currently, the Facility team continuously monitored the use of heat pumps external area and the major part of the internal one has already and, especially for the winter season, the thermal power station been replaced. We will seek to complete the substitution of the by taking into consideration the activity period of the production lighting system and, in the meanwhile, we will continue to search within the factory. As a result, we have reduced the energy demand for new technologies and solutions with the purpose of boosting from the national grid and we have increased our ability to assess our effort to the efficient use of energy resources. Overall, in 2019, energy trends, thus identifying potential issues that would not we recorded a total energy consumption equal to 15,239 GJ, thus otherwise be detected. achieving a significant -18% decrease with respect to 2018. DECOUPLING ENERGY -5% -8% -14% -29% CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION VOLUMES IN THE SAN MAURO PASCOLI FACTORY Actual Consumption Pair of Shoes Produced Baseline 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 83 In 2019 we also kept monitoring our GHG emissions in accordance SERGIO ROSSI'S to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol by also including, since 2018, ENERGY MIX the Scope 3 emissions released by the logistics of sold products. Specifically, in the calculation are included all the products shipped on our charge from our factory in San Mauro to both our clients worldwide and to our logistic hubs in Asia and North America. The most significant contribution is related to air transport, which accounts for 96% of logistics-related carbon emissions. Deliveries 22% in Italy and Europe were shipped by road vehicles and represent only the 4% of the overall 2019 emissions of Scope 3. 60% After the important reorganization of our logistics activities 71% concluded in 2018, we managed to reduce the number of providers, improving the control of products movements and optimizing times. By using new and more spacious boxes, in 2019 we were 7% 11% thus able to send more pairs of shoes for each shipment respect to the previous year. This result has been achieved also by further optimizing our internal order management system so that all the pairs belonging to the same order can be packed within the same box, thus saving packaging material. In the years to come, we will continue to monitor our performances of outbound logistics, always pursuing new methods and solutions to further reduce our Electricity National Grid footprint and to support clients in all logistics-related activities. Natural gas Photovoltaic System The total amount of GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) has been reduced from 1.461 in 2018 to 1.147 tons of CO2eq in 2019, i.e. a 21% Diesel year-on-year reduction mainly due to a reduction in the electricity consumption and in a lower use of leased vehicles. As regarding the other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3), the slight increase reflects the higher numbers of products shipped by the logistics department (+11%) but, at the same time, it is mitigated by a great reduction of business travel by train and rented car (-20%) compared to the 2018 data. This result is mainly related to an overall optimization of business travel and to a stabilization of our market presence. [305-1; 305-2; 305-3] ENERGY CONSUMPTION [GJ] GRI 302-1 TYPE OF CONSUMPTION ENERGY SOURCE 2017 2018 2019 Emergency generator Diesel 4.8 3.2 3.3 Heating Natural gas 3,248.4 3,075.2 3,313.4 Electricity National grid 12,238.1 11,857.2 9,097.3 Photovoltaic system 2,052.0 1,842.7 1,771.4 Owned vehicles Diesel 27.1 39.0 42.6 Leased vehicles Diesel 1,228.3 1,676.5 1,011.5 Total energy consumption 18,798.7 18,473.8 15,239.5 84 DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS [TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT] GRI 305-1-2-3 ACTIVITY 2017 2018 2019 SCOPE 1: DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Natural gas consumption for heating purposes 181.6 172.0 185.4 Diesel consumption for emergency electricity generation 0.3 0.2 0.2 Diesel consumption for owned and leased vehicles 92.4 118.5 72.8 Refrigerant gases leakage 19.5 0 0 Total scope 1 293.8 290.8 258.4 SCOPE 2: ENERGY INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Electricity purchased from the grid (Location-based method) 1,274.8 1,170.6 889.0 Electricity purchased from the grid (Market-based method) 1,581.1 1,547.4 1,194.5 Total scope 1 and 2 (Location-based method) 1,568.6 1,461.4 1,147.4 SCOPE 3: OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Business travel by air 192.7 104.4 83.9 Business travel by train and rented cars 8.4 12.6 9.4 Logistics of sold products 530 587 Total scope 3 201.1 646.9 680.3 Total scope 1, 2 (location-based method) and 3 1,769.7 2,108.31 1,827.7 85 METHODOLOGICAL /05 NOTE Reporting principles and criteria Scope of Reporting The present document is the fourth consecutive Sustainability By publishing the Sustainability Report 2019, Sergio Rossi aims Report of Sergio Rossi and encompasses the period from 1st to communicate to all its stakeholders, the initiatives, events and January to 31st December 2019 [102-50; 102-52]. The report is programs designed and implemented across the year. At the same yearly published and has been written in accordance with the time, it describes the activities carried out during the previous GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option, published years that have generated results in 2019 as well as further in 2016 and updated in 2018 by the Global Reporting Initiative initiatives that will be realized or completed in the following ones. (GRI) [102-54]. With the purpose of creating an historical comparison of data, whenever it has been possible, figures concerning 2017 and In the paragraphs “Materiality Analysis” and §1.3 “Our 2018 have been displayed in order to guarantee performance commitment to sustainability” is reported an in-depth description comparability. All the information refers to Sergio Rossi S.p.A. of the process applied to detect and identify the contents of the and to a series of selected monobrand and outlet stores from the Sustainability Report. The present document also fulfills Sergio Company’s EMEA Retail Network, operating under the Sergio Rossi commitment to produce a Communication on Progress Rossi Retail S.r.l. and its French branch, the SR UK Ltd – all – a public disclosure outlining its progress in implementing the fully controlled by Sergio Rossi S.p.A; the 2019 data only, also 10 principles of the UNGC – as required by the United Nations include SR Deutschland, the newly created German branch. In Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative, signed in 2017. particular, 2019 data include the following, the perimeter of the With regards to Human Rights, Sergio Rossi’s Sustainability Sustainability Report 2019 comprehends: the Montenapoleone Report does not directly address the UNGC issues and principles, store in Milan, the Via dei Condotti store in Rome*, the Leccio, since the major part of the Company’s direct activities and Noventa di Piave, Fidenza Village*, Serravalle, Castel Romano suppliers are located in Italy, where laws ensure the regulation and San Mauro Pascoli outlets in Italy, the Faubourg Saintof human rights. Nonetheless, Sergio Rossi includes clauses on Honoré store in Paris, the Bicester Village outlet in Bicester* labor conditions and on the respect of human rights in its Code and the Sergio Rossi Outlet store in Metzingen4. Any exception of Business Conduct and the protection of workers occupational to such scope is clearly outlined within the document [102-45; health and safety is an issue on which the Company is continuously 102-49]. Sergio Rossi S.p.A. has its headquarters and plant in San committed to report on. Mauro Pascoli, via Stradone 600/602 (Italy). 4 Store signaled with the “*” were not included in 2017 reporting scope. 88 Materiality analysis In line with previous years, the “Sustainability Committee” was involved in the updating of the materiality analysis, in accordance with the GRI Standards. To begin with, the main topics and concerns raised by stakeholders were taken into account in the definition of the materiality matrix, as summarized below [102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44]. STAKEHOLDER CATEGORY ENGAGEMENT TOOLS AND ACTIVITIES ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY Clients Direct dialogue through the retail force, analysis of Daily social media, monitoring of the satisfaction of products through complaints management (see §1.4) Competitors Employees Continuous dialogue with the HR department Daily Franchisees and Landlords Periodic meetings Monthly/yearly Local communities Monitoring of main topics and concerns through the dialogue with other actors of San Mauro District, media monitoring and participation to trade associations Quarterly/yearly Shareholder and Investors Formal and informal meetings, periodic management reports, sustainability reporting Quarterly/yearly Social Media users and influencers Analysis of social media trend topics, interaction though Sergio Rossi social media profiles Daily Suppliers Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, written communication regarding our quality and chemical compliance requirements (see §3.1) Daily Testimonials Continuous dialogue, periodic meetings, interaction through Sergio Rossi social media profiles Daily Trade and production partners Periodic meetings Yearly Universities and other educational institutions Joint initiatives, such as the one organized with Quarterly/yearly CERCAL, and other periodic meetings 89 To identify the main sustainability issues affecting the leather perception, impressions and knowledge of the sector and its goods and fashion industries, we made a preliminary context recent developments, the commitment of Sergio Rossi on those analysis. In particular, we conducted a sector-specific media topics and their actual and potential impact for the Company analysis and a benchmark analysis of our peers’ sustainability and its entire value chain. By doing so, we have updated the reporting, in order to identify the most relevant issues for relative position of each topic on the x-axis of the materiality comparable companies and the most pressing priorities for matrix. our stakeholders. The results of such analysis suggested the relevance that each topic had for our stakeholders, by weighting Material aspects (whose identification is described in detail them depending on the different priorities and concerns in Chapter 1) are reported in the following table, linked to the of each stakeholder category. After having recognized the corresponding GRI Standards. The table also outlines the somain sustainability topics for Sergio Rossi’s stakeholders, we called reporting “boundaries”, i.e. whether each material topic required our top managers to update their perceptions about generates impacts within and/or outside the organization. stakeholders’ priorities by giving a weighted score to each topic. The table also reports any potential reporting limitation due to Such scores, representing the relevance of each topic for all the current unavailability of data and information pertaining our relevant stakeholders, are indicated on the y-axis within to an external perimeter [102-46]. In the coming years, Sergio the materiality map presented in §1.3 “Our commitment to Rossi is committed to identifying and implementing specific sustainability”. Finally, we asked each manager to evaluate the actions aimed at gradually extending the scope of data collection relevance of each material topic for Sergio Rossi based on their and reporting for each material topic. MATERIAL TOPIC GRI MATERIAL ASPECT ASPECT BOUNDARY REPORTING LIMITATIONS WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION Economic performance Economic performance Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Contribution to local Procurement practices Sergio Rossi S.p.A. development Use of sustainable raw Materials Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not materials and packaging extended to suppliers Energy Energy Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope not efficiency extended to suppliers Reduction of GHG Emissions Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Suppliers Reporting scope extended emissions just to some suppliers Legal compliance Environmental Sergio Rossi S.p.A. compliance Business Ethics Traceability and Supplier environmental Sergio Rossi S.p.A. transparency along the assessment supply chain Supplier social Sergio Rossi S.p.A. assessment Talent attraction and Employment Sergio Rossi S.p.A. retention Training and education Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Employee health Occupational health Sergio Rossi S.p.A. External Reporting scope not and safety and safety workers extended to suppliers Remuneration Employment Sergio Rossi S.p.A. and welfare Client satisfaction Customer health Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Clients and safety Creativity, design and Training and Sergio Rossi S.p.A. protection of the artisanal education know-how 90 QUALITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES Our Sustainability Report is drafted in accordance with the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability, as defined by the GRI Standards. The document highlights both strengths and weaknesses, as well as potential areas of improvements for the Group. The data collection and reporting processes are structured in order to ensure the comparability over the years and to guarantee an accurate interpretation of information by the key stakeholders interested in our performance evolution. We have been supported by the Italian EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services team in the drafting of this 2019 Sustainability Report. The current Sustainability Report is not subject to external assurance [102-56]. Reporting principles and criteria The calculation methodologies described below outline how energy and environmental figures have been computed for 2017, 2018 and 2019. Energy consumption To compute the energy consumption regarding owned and leased vehicles, we based our calculation on the available data of fuel consumption. The following table shows the conversion factors that have been used: FUEL DENSITY LCV (LOWER CALORIFIC VALUE) DEFRA (Department of MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente Environment, Food & Rural e della Tutela del Territorio e del Affairs), Conversion factors Mare), Tabella parametri standard Full set, 2017, 2018 and 2019. nazionali 2017, 2018 and 2019. 91 GHG emissions Air emissions Concerning environmental data, when actual data were To calculate the amount of air emissions, all pollutants relating not available, conservative estimations have been used. to industrial processes have been considered; to obtain the Greenhouse gases emissions calculations have been carried quantity, the pollutants concentrations is multiplied by out based on the principles included in the GHG Protocol estimated annual flows. Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions related to electric energy consumption have been calculated with both the locationbased and the market-based method. The first one reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs while the second reflects emissions from electricity that the Company has chosen on purpose. For what concerns the amount of GHG emissions related to transportation activities (Scope 3), indirect emissions resulting from outbound logistics have also been taken into account by considering all shipments from our factory in San Mauro Pascoli to our store network and logistic hub worldwide. Emissions related to business travels by train, plane and rental car have also been included in the Scope 3 emissions calculation. Finally, in order to calculate the amount of CO2 saved thanks to the energy generated by our photovoltaic system, we have first converted the kWh consumption of electricity coming from the photovoltaic system into avoided CO2 emissions by using the Terna emission factor (i.e. the same used for electricity purchased from the grid). Afterwards, such saving has been compared to the amount of CO2 emissions generated by an average passenger vehicle (as defined by the UK DEFRA conversion tables) traveling for 10.000 kilometers, as to obtain the corresponding equivalence. Contacts For further information about this Sustainability Report, please contact [102-53]: Sergio Rossi S.p.A. Via Pontaccio, 13 20121, Milan, Italy Tel: +39 02 7632081 Email: info@sergiorossi.com 92 GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP Emergency generator/ Heating Fuel consumption (Diesel and MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions were and Cooling natural gas) dell’Ambiente e della Tutela considered del Territorio e del Mare), Tabella parametri standard nazionali 2017, 2018 and 2019 Owned and leased cars Fuel consumption (diesel) MATTM (Ministero Only CO2 emissions were dell’Ambiente e della Tutela considered del Territorio e del Mare), Tabella parametri standard nazionali 2017, 2018 and 2019 Leakages from air-conditioning Leakages (kg) IPCC, 2013 Climate Change systems of refrigerant gases 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. Cambridge University Press, p. 732 GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP Electricity purchased from the Electricity consumption (kWh) Terna, international Only CO2 emissions were national grid (Location-based comparisons on Enerdata considered method) figures 2016 and 2017 data Electricity purchased from the Electricity consumption (kWh) AIB, European Residual Mixes national grid (Market-based 2017 and 2018 method) GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 SOURCE ACTIVITY DATA EMISSION FACTOR GWP Business travel by air Distance covered (km) DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering Environment, Food & Rural the following gases: CO2 (GWP Affairs), Conversion factors = 1), CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O Full set, 2017, 2018 and 2019. (GWP = 298). Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Business travel by train Distance covered (km) Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, Only CO2 emissions were Rapporto di Sostenibilità , considered 2016, 2017 and 2018. Outbound logistics Products shipped (km*kg) DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering Environment, Food & Rural the following gases: CO2 (GWP Affairs), Conversion factors = 1), CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O Full set, 2017, 2018 and 2019. (GWP = 298). Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). 93 APPENDIX Air emissions In addition to the topics highlighted as material through our As required by the environmental authorities in accordance materiality analysis, we closely monitor other environmental with Italian Legislative Decree n. 152/06, we conduct a yearly aspects connected to our processes, especially from the analysis on our air emissions. Details are provided in the table perspective of regulatory compliance. below. AIR EMISSIONS UNIT 2017 2018 2019 Water Volatile Organic 0.66 2.2 0.86 T Considering water consumption, which is entirely supplied by Compounds (VOC) municipal sources, we record a reduction of 12% respect to 2017, shifting from 12.874 to 11.300 cubic meters [303-1]. The decrease The year-on-year fluctuation in air emission levels are not is due to the implementation of optimization activities carried directly related to the number of functioning hours of our out in our factory in San Mauro Pascoli, among which a drip machines, but to the fact that their measurement is based on irrigation system able to save water by placing it directly onto the timely annual estimates, which are subject to the volatility of soil at low rates to minimize evaporation. particle concentrations related to machine utilization. WATER CONSUMPTION DATA (M3) Moreover, also in 2019, we respected all the limits required SOURCE by law. The legal limits are related to the purchase of products 2017 2018 2019 releasing VOCs during their use; such limits for Sergio Rossi are equal to 9.500 kg of glues and solvents that are mainly used for Municipal supply 13,833 12,874 11,300 production and cleaning. * The data refer only to the San Mauro Pascoli production site and the Pontaccio office, since water consumption at the store level is not directly managed by Sergio Rossi. Nonetheless, stores’ contribution can be considered negligible. 94 Waste Waste volumes produced can be split into two different categories: hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The first category comprises some of the glues we use in our production process, neon and some container categories, while the second includes both raw material and packaging waste and can be compared to municipal waste. In 2019, our total waste volumes recorded a +27% increase with respect to 2018, mainly due to the disposal of some specific waste categories [306-2]. Numbers concerning waste are indeed fluctuating mainly depending on the disposal of old stocks and it is not directly linked to the regular production process. Specifically, in 2019, we carried out some extra-ordinary disposal initiatives in our warehouses, which contributed to the increase of the total waste figures. * The data refer only to the San Mauro Pascoli production site, given that both the Pontaccio office and the EMEA Retail Network fall within the local municipal waste collections, thus not requiring quantity monitoring. 29,330 21,250 19,180 14,880 13,326 7,040 Recycling hazardous waste Recycling non-hazardous waste Landfill hazardous waste 780 442 356 80 95 160 Landfill non-hazardous waste 2017 2018 2019 41,566 36,625 29,425 28,728 21,606 14,960 Total recycled (Kg) Total waste (Kg) 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 95 GRI Content Index The following table indicates the correspondence between the information required by the GRI Standards with respect to each indicator linked to our material topics and the contents of this document. In particular, when some information is missing because of the actual impossibility of measuring the related KPIs, we have inserted a detailed reference under the “Omissions” column below [102-55]. 96 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the 10 organization 102-2 Activities, brands, 10 products, and services 102-3 Location of 10 headquarters 102-4 Location of 10 operations 102-5 Ownership and legal 16 form 102-6 Markets served 10 102-7 Scale of the 10, 44, 60 organization 102-8 Information on UNGC 6 45-90 employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 64-66 102-10 Significant changes 16 to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Sergio Rossi does not Principle or approach formally adhere or adapt its decision-making approach in accordance to the precautionary approach. 102-12 External initiatives 79 102-13 Membership of 38, 79 associations 97 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from UNGC 8, 9 5 senior decision-maker ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, UNGC 1, 2 16, 17 standards, and norms of behavior GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance 16 structure STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder 89 groups 102-41 Collective UNGC 1,2 3, 45 bargaining agreements 4, 5 102-42 Identifying and 89 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to 89 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and 89 concerns raised REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in 16, 88 the consolidated financial statements 98 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION 102-46 Defining report content and topic 38-41, 89-91 Boundaries 102-47 List of material 39, 90 topics 102-48 Restatements of 10, 84-85 [In this Report information we have restated the 2018 diesel consumption data (GRI 302-1 and GRI 305-1).] 102-49 Changes in 88 reporting 102-50 Reporting period 88 102-51 Date of most recent September 2019 report 102-52 Reporting cycle 88 102-53 Contact point for 92 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting 88 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 96-105 102-56 External assurance 91 99 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 41, 90 material topic and its Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 10, 41 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 10 management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic 10 value generated and Performance 2016 distributed PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 40,90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 40, 44, 64 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 64 management approach GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of 64 spending on local suppliers Practices 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 41, 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 16-17, 41 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 16-17 management approach 100 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 205: 205-3 Confirmed incidents No incidents of corruption of corruption and actions were recorded in the Anti-corruption 2016 taken reporting period GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES MATERIALS GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7, 8 40, 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7, 8 40, 64-65 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7, 8 64-65 management approach GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by UNGC 7, 8 65 weight or volume ENERGY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7, 8 40,90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7, 8 40, 82-84 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7, 8 40, 82-84 management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption UNGC 7, 8 84 within the organization WATER GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7, 8 94 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7, 8 94 approach and its components 101 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7, 8 94 management approach GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal UNGC 7, 8 94 by source EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7, 8 40, 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7, 8 40, 82-85 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7, 8 40, 82-85 management approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) UNGC 7, 8 85 GHG emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect UNGC 7, 8 85 (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect UNGC 7, 8 85 (Scope 3) GHG emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7, 8 95 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7, 8 95 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7, 8 95 management approach GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and UNGC 7, 8 95 disposal method waste 2016 102 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 7 40,90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 7 40,90 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 7 16, 40 management approach GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with UNGC 7 16 environmental laws and compliance 2016 regulations GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 6 40,90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 6 40, 44-45 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 6 44-45 management approach GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires UNGC 6 45, 48-49 and employee turnover 2016 401-3 Parental leave UNGC 6 56 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 6 40,90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103 OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION 103-2 The management UNGC 6 40, 44, 55 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 6 44, 55 management approach GRI 403: Management 403-1 Occupational Occupational health health and safety and safety management approach disclosure management system for Italian companies is based on the Italian 2018 UNGC 6 legislation which defines periodic activities that have to be carried out in order to ensure workers’ safety. 403-2 Hazard Integral part of such identification, risk activities is the assessment, and incident identification of work investigation related hazards and risk UNGC 6 assessments from which no significant risks have emerged. 403-3 Occupational UNGC 6 55 health services 403-4 Worker These aspects are participation, managed in compliance consultation, and with the provisions of communication on the Italian legislative occupational health and UNGC 6 framework which safety requires the presence of at least one “Employee Representative” as a mandatory role within the Occupational health and safety management system. 403-5 Worker training on Pg. 55; based on the occupational health and Italian Legislation, training safety on health and safety is mandatory for all employees; length and type of training is based on worker’s role and level of risk. 403-6 Promotion of The Group did not worker health provide any additional non-occupational medical and healthcare services. 403-7 Prevention and Sergio Rossi does not have mitigation of occupational in place a process to analyze health and safety impacts potentially significant directly linked by business negative occupational relationships health and safety impacts that are directly linked to its operations, products or services by its business 104 relationships. OMISSION GRI PART OMITTED, REASON STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/URL AND EXPLANATION GRI 403: Occupational 403-9 Work-related injuries UNGC 6 55 health and safety 2018 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the UNGC 6 40, 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management UNGC 6 40, 52 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the UNGC 6 52 management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours UNGC 6 52-53 of training per year per Education 2016 employee CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 41, 90 material topic and its Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management 41, 67 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 67 management approach GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the 67 health and safety impacts Health and Safety of product and service 2016 categories 416-2 Incidents of non67 compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 105
