Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Table of contents This is Wärtsilä 03 Sustainability 40 Governance 97 Investors 140 Financial review 152 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 3 This is Wärtsilä CEO review 04 Sustainability highlights 07 Strategy 15 Targets 18 Wärtsilä Marine Business 25 Wärtsilä Energy Business 28 Manufacturing and R&D 30 Innovating for sustainability 32 Why invest in Wärtsilä 37 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 4 Anchor CEO rreview eview The year 2019 was characterised by a difficult demand environment and weaker than anticipated financial performance. Despite the increase in marine equipment sales and service volumes, energy equipment deliveries declined due to external factors affecting the energy market. While this did impact our operating result, the primary setback was the cost overruns we experienced in a handful of complex marine and energy projects, which were caused by inaccurate assumptions in cost estimates, insufficient risk identification, and supplier related challenges. I am convinced that our project management capabilities will soon be re-established at their previous level of excellence. To achieve this, and to prevent a re-occurrence in future projects of the issues we have faced in 2019, we have undertaken a number of actions to improve the quality of our project execution and to ensure better upfront identification of risks and opportunities. I am confident that this will enable us to live up to our reputation for providing high quality and value enhancing solutions, coupled with superior project management capabilities. Or Order der intake af affected fected by dif difficult ficult market conditions Vessel contracting fell short of initial forecasts, largely due to concerns related to the implications of geopolitical developments on seaborne trade. Furthermore, there was a decline in scrubber orders from the exceptionally high levels of the previous year. This was a result of uncertainty related to the price and availability of bunker fuels. Considering these factors, we can be pleased with the level of equipment orders received in the Marine Business. Our extensive market exposure and broad offering of solutions have once again allowed us to capture opportunities in those segments where activity has been more robust, such as cruise ships and gas carriers. Energy policies are being revised to promote sustainable development and to combat climate change. In order to achieve ambitious decarbonisation targets, utilities globally are updating their investment strategies. This, in combination with an unfavourable macroeconomic environment, has caused customers to defer investment decisions. Because of this, the demand for new gas and liquid fuelled power generation capacity declined significantly during the year, creating a background of uncertainty for our Energy Business. Although equipment orders in the Energy Business failed to meet our expectations, energy service orders developed well, as did the orders for energy storage and optimisation solutions. Str Strengthening engthening the focus on lifecycle solutions While 2019 did not prove to be an easy year for Wärtsilä, the operational challenges we experienced masked positive developments on many fronts; most notably, the return to growth in services following two years of stable development. I am particularly pleased to highlight the increased order intake for service agreements, which included the Energy Business’ largest ever long-term operation and maintenance agreement. This was signed with Energia del Pacifico for a power plant under construction in El Salvador. The importance of these agreements to our strategy is emphasised by the fact that we renewed our organisational structure at the beginning of 2019, forming it around two businesses integrating both equipment and services. A central aim of this change is to better enable the tailoring of our lifecycle solutions to specific market needs. I am pleased to note that we have realised certain benefits of this reorganisation, for example through improved cooperation internally with regards to developing and executing our full lifecycle offering. I strongly believe that this provides a foundation for strengthening lifecycle partnerships with our customers, which in turn will support progression towards our long-term target of profitable growth. Putting our Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions into action As a result of the need to significantly raise efficiency levels and comply with tightening environmental legislation, there is a rapid transformation taking place in both the marine and energy sectors. Wärtsilä has taken a leading position in enabling this transformation process through its Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions, where the latest technologies are being developed and employed to meet the evolving needs in both these end markets. Several key orders were received during the year that validate the commercial feasibility of our Smart Marine vision. The order to supply Anglo-Eastern’s fleet of more than 600 vessels with Wärtsilä’s Fleet Optimisation Solution (FOS) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 5 illustrates that the shipping industry is increasingly looking at leveraging the latest digital solutions to maximise efficiency and performance. FOS enables voyage planning, speed management, weather routing, ship-to-shore reporting, and fleet performance management to reduce fuel consumption. Furthermore, in the field of autonomous vessels, following last year’s successful testing, we received our first order for SmartDock during 2019, making it the world’s first commercially available auto-docking solution. In the energy market, an order we received from Cambodia is an excellent example of the role we can play in providing fast-starting, flexible solutions that enable the integration of increasing levels of power from renewable sources, while simultaneously securing power system reliability. In addition to adding much needed capacity to the grid, the plant will provide the balancing flexibility that is essential when adding fluctuating supplies of solar and wind to the power system. Another example of how our solutions can support the transition to carbon-free resources is the 100 MW/100 MWh total capacity energy storage project awarded to us in South East Asia. The energy storage system, which includes our advanced energy management software platform GEMS, will support the region in reducing its reliance on fossil fuels. These orders represent a clear indication of the steps we have taken in realising our vision to lead the industry’s transformation towards a 100% renewable future. New technologies based on innovations and collaboration Investing in technological leadership is vital for ensuring the competitiveness of Wärtsilä’s product portfolio and for securing a leading position in sustainable innovation. The focus of our R&D activities, the cost of which amounted to 3.2% of sales in 2019, is on areas such as efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impacts. While we remain dedicated to developing the core technologies within our portfolio, as illustrated by the two new engine additions to the Wärtsilä 31 family, our research and development activities have increasingly turned to developing new digital solutions, with the emphasis on optimising performance through data insights. Examples of some of the advances made during the year include a new online platform that allows our customers to manage their installations more efficiently, and the introduction of Expert Insight, which leverages artificial intelligence and advanced diagnostics to remotely monitor equipment and systems in real time. Collaboration with industry stakeholders is an essential element in the development of technologies needed to meet the changing market requirements. Among the year’s partnership projects were agreements aimed at accelerating the development and commercialisation of renewable fuels in the energy markets. In the marine sector, our project to develop an autonomous harbour tug, IntelliTug, is an excellent example of the role collaboration plays within our innovation activities. Developed in collaboration with PSA Marine, the project took a decisive leap from drawing board to practical application during the year. Following the successful installation of a first-of-its-kind dynamic positioning system onboard the harbour tug ‘PSA Polaris’, trials are now being carried out in the Port of Singapore under real-world conditions. In the field of energy, an important example of our partnership agreements are those focusing on exploring the role that Power-to-X, namely the generation of synthetic fuel from excess CO2 emissions, plays in a carbon-neutral future. Such projects include providing funding to start-ups, as well as collaborating with academia and companies that are developing innovative technologies to speed the development of renewable fuels and capture opportunities to market them globally. Collaboration is also extremely important to the success of the Smart Technology Hub, our new centre of research, product development and production being built in Vaasa, Finland. As the project progressed from planning to implementation in 2019, the selection of the first partners for the Smart Partner Campus took place. This is where research and product development activities can be carried out together with Wärtsilä's customers and suppliers, start-ups, and universities. A consistent emphasis on rresponsible esponsible business conduct While our strategy places a strong emphasis on reducing harmful environmental impact, social considerations are of equal importance to us. We always intend to contribute towards the well-being of society and to foster an inclusive corporate culture by respecting diversity, providing equal opportunities, and demonstrating high ethical standards. In this context, we are committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Another clear priority is ensuring safe working conditions and strengthening safety leadership within the company. The increase in the number of safety walks carried out by This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 6 management, and the adherence to near-miss reporting, show that safety is taken seriously throughout the organisation. Furthermore, the decline in our lost time injury frequency shows that we are moving in the right direction. Short-term challenges, longer longer-term -term optimism The business environment is expected to continue to be challenging during the upcoming year. For this reason, we remain cautious on the demand outlook. Our focus will be on improving operational efficiency, with the aim of mitigating, to the extent possible, the near-term performance headwinds related to pricing and mix. We have also taken steps to simplify our portfolio in order to strengthen the focus on core businesses. This entails moving noncore activities into a separate business unit, with the aim of accelerating their performance and unlocking value. Looking further ahead, we have a solid basis for future performance thanks to our sizeable order book and service opportunities arising from our large installed base. Furthermore, we have the means and the solutions, through our broad offering of flexible technologies and strong in-house capabilities, to enable growth in the adoption of renewable energy sources, and to contribute to the decarbonisation of the maritime industry. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their continued support. To our customers, I say thank you for your trust in our solutions and services, and finally yet importantly, I want to thank our personnel for their continued dedication and for putting us firmly on the path towards achievement of our common goals. Jaakko Eskola President & CEO Key figures MEUR 2019 10-12/2019 7-9/2019 4-6/2019 1-3/2019 2018 Net sales 5 170 1 684 1 118 1 217 1 151 5 174 Marine 3 330 1 020 776 801 733 2 815 Energy 1 840 664 342 416 418 2 359 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -180 -39 -58 -42 -41 -130 Comparable operating result1 457 202 39 113 102 577 Comparable operating result1, % 8.8 12.0 3.5 9.3 8.9 11.2 Profit before taxes 315 153 -0 83 78 502 Earnings per share, EUR 0.37 0.17 -0.01 0.11 0.10 0.65 Order intake 5 327 1 555 979 1 377 1 416 6 307 MEUR 2019 31.12.2019 30.9.2019 30.6.2019 31.3.2019 2018 Balance sheet total 6 398 6 398 6 360 6 198 6 337 6 059 Interest-bearing liabilities, gross2 1 096 1 096 1 365 1 132 1 162 823 Cash and cash equivalents 369 369 374 383 501 487 ROI, % 11.5 11.5 12.8 17.2 18.2 18.1 Gearing2 0.30 0.30 0.44 0.33 0.29 0.14 Order book, end of period 5 878 5 878 6 294 6 470 6 330 6 166 Year-end market capitalisation 5 828 5 828 6 080 7 547 8 512 8 222 Personnel, number at end of period 18 795 18 795 19 018 19 239 19 225 19 294 1 Figures exclude items affecting comparability. 2 The increase in net interest-bearing debt is partly related to the inclusion of lease liabilities on balance sheet as a result of the new IFRS 16 standard. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 7 Anchor Sustainability highlights Anchor 11.2. Wärtsilä and Aalto University signed a partnership agreement to broaden cooperation on challenges related to climate change, scarcity of natural resources and digitalisation. Anchor 6.3. Wärtsilä completed the installation and operational staff training for its Vessel Traffic Service solutions project to increase efficiency of two Portuguese ports. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 8 Anchor 8.3. Wärtsilä was contracted to supply dual technology option for Ballast Water Management Systems for Eletson’s full fleet of 23 carriers. Anchor 20.3. Wärtsilä was contracted to supply solutions for the new state-of-the-art Wasaline ferry built in Finland, creating world class efficiency and eco-friendliness. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 9 Anchor 16.4. Wärtsilä launched the Engine+ Hybrid Energy solution in support of storage and renewable energy adoption. Anchor 7.5. Wärtsilä emissions reducing solutions were recognised with White Snow, Clean Air award. The award is in recognition of Wärtsilä’s solutions that reduce emissions from gas flaring at oil drilling and production sites. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 10 Anchor 20.5. Wärtsilä and LUT University signed a research agreement on strategic power system modelling to collaborate on research for 100% renewable energy systems. Anchor 18.6. The Leanships collaboration project with Wärtsilä and partners designed an Energy Saving Device (ESD) suitable for use by ships with Controllable Pitch Propellers (CPPs), achieving 3.5% fuel savings. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 11 Anchor 25.7. Wärtsilä signed a 100 MW/100 MWh energy storage system project deal in South East Asia. Anchor 3.9. The Wärtsilä 31DF engine, featuring unprecedented efficiency with fuel and operational flexibility, made entry to the energy industry. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 12 Anchor 23.9. Wärtsilä joined “Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition”, where along with 74 organisations Wärtsilä committed to collaboration to make commercially-viable zero emission vessels a reality by 2030. Anchor 26.9. Wärtsilä and Q Power signed a strategic cooperation agreement to support the development of renewable fuels. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 13 Anchor 7.10. Wärtsilä power plant in Kibuye, Rwanda, using ‘killer lake’ gases, was recognised among Project Management Institute's (PMI) Top 10 Renewable Energy Projects of the last 50 years. Anchor 11.10. Wärtsilä announced an order for hybrid upgrades saving fuel and reducing greenhouse gas emissions for two offshore supply vessels owned by the Norway-based operator Atlantic Offshore. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 14 Anchor 14.11. Wärtsilä and PSA Marine agreed to collaborate in creation of smart technologies for the marine sector to achieve clean energy shipping. Anchor 2.12. Wärtsilä was contracted to provide a full energy storage solution for integrating renewable energy in one of the largest power hybrid projects at the off-grid Fekola Mine in Mali. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 15 Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions. Wärtsilä's profitable growth ambitions are supported by its strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network. An integrated portfolio of services, systems, and products that covers customer needs throughout the full lifecycle positions Wärtsilä well to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. Emphasis is given to optimising performance through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions, and safety solutions, and to using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customer business decisions. The utilisation of connectivity and smart technologies plays a key role in the optimisation of assets and in providing strategic input to customers in order to enhance their business growth. Asset management will drive future growth in lifecycle solutions and enable new as-a-service business models. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation provides enhanced customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. With its flexible production and supply chain management, Wärtsilä constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. Investments in research and development, and specifically in digitalisation, create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening the company’s position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The focus on operational excellence ensures that Wärtsilä is a company easy to do business with and drives increased productivity and efficiencies for its customers. Anchor Smart Marine Wärtsilä’s aim is to lead the industry’s transformation towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem. Building on the sound foundation of being a leading provider of innovative products, integrated solutions, and lifecycle services to the marine and oil & gas industries, we aim to unlock new sources of customer value through connectivity, digitalisation, and use of smart technologies. The maritime industry faces the challenge of realising decarbonisation by the end of the century. In order to do so, the industry will have to collaborate to introduce new technologies, legislations, and fuels (e.g. bioLNG, synthetic gases, hydrogen, ammonia). Industry players are faced with major sources of inefficiency that impose a significantly negative impact on business operations, environmental performance, and profitability. The three most notable of these are overcapacity, inadequate port-to-port fuel efficiency, and time wasted waiting when entering ports and other high traffic areas. Eliminating these inefficiencies forms the basis of Wärtsilä’s marine strategy towards decarbonisation and ecosystem thinking. Wärtsilä is ideally positioned, together with its customers and partners, for positive disruptive development and to lead the transformation into a new era of shipping. Building on our extensive offering portfolio, and our vast installed base and industry know-how, we will continue to develop the smart technologies, business models, and competences needed to create a Smart Marine Ecosystem. By applying smart technology and performance optimisation services, Wärtsilä aims to deliver greater efficiencies, minimised climate impact, and a higher level of safety to the shipping industry. This will result in more sustainable, safe, and profitable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. The ultimate goal is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. Anchor Smart Energy The energy landscape is in transition towards more flexible and sustainable energy systems. Wärtsilä envisions a 100% renewable energy future. Wärtsilä Energy’s objective is to be its customers’ most trusted partner in unlocking This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 16 the value of an optimised energy transition by providing all the essential technologies, services, and solutions for sustainable, reliable, and affordable power systems. The transition from traditional inflexible baseload generation to renewable dominated energy is driven by the decreasing cost of new technologies. The operating environment is becoming more complex, and new players are entering different parts of the value chain. Storage technology is changing old design principles, and the importance of flexible gas is increasing. Simultaneously, the role of consumers is gradually gaining importance in power production and as a source of flexibility. Digitalisation throughout the industry brings new opportunities for predicting consumption and maintenance needs and can deliver improved competitiveness. Wärtsilä is at the very core of future energy systems. The company’s flexible power generation solutions and energy storage systems provide a unique combination of energy efficiency as well as fuel and operational flexibility in baseload, balancing, and peaking applications. These solutions provide the needed backup for existing high renewable content power systems or can later be shifted from baseload or intermittent operations to backup mode, as the energy transition proceeds. The aim is to continuously develop optimal and environmentally sound solutions for customers by focusing on Wärtsilä’s core competences: market and system understanding, EPC capabilities, system optimisation, and lifecycle support. Wärtsilä’s energy services provide a broad range of high-quality services and solutions to enhance business performance of power generation companies. The solutions range from spare parts and maintenance services to ensuring maximised operational life, increased efficiency, and guaranteed power plant performance. Wärtsilä maintains and optimises power plant performance with comprehensive lifecycle solutions encompassing technology, software, and service expertise, as well as a holistic view and understanding of installations on a system level. Our goal is to secure our customers’ investments with guaranteed power plant availability and reliability. Anchor Sustainability Economic Wärtsilä aims to meet shareholder expectations and contribute towards the well-being of society. This requires efficient, profitable, and competitive company operations. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Envir Environment onment Wärtsilä's aim is to be a forerunner in sustainable innovation and furthermore reduce emissions in our customer’s operations and in societies overall. Wärtsilä supplies smart technologies and services that help to mitigate climate change and protect our oceans and seas. We continuously work on achieving high environmental standards in our operations, and improving the environmental performance and efficiency of our products and solutions through R&D, collaboration, partnerships, and active engagement in ecosystems. In doing this, we help our customers and society at large to meet the goals of the tightening global environmental regulations and guidelines. Social We have high ethical standards and we care about the communities in which we operate. Our business operations and relations with our stakeholders are governed by our Code of Conduct. Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, and we seek to offer our employees an interesting and exciting workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. A further aim is to offer a hazard-free working environment to our employees and contractors, and to minimise the health and safety risks associated with the use of our products and services. Through effective supply chain management and continuous development we strive to ensure that our values expressed in the Code of Conduct are promoted in our whole value chain. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 17 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 18 Anchor Targets Financial targets Anchor Net sales Target Development Grow faster than global GDP. In 2019, net sales remained stable at EUR 5,170 million. Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 19 Pr Profitability ofitability Target Development The operating profit margin (EBIT%) target is In 2019, the comparable operating result was 14% at the peak of the cycle. At the trough of EUR 457 million, which represents 8.8% of net the cycle, the target is to keep the operating sales. profit margin above 10%. Anchor Capital structur structuree Target Development Maintain gearing below 0.50. In 2019, gearing was 0.30. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 20 Anchor Dividend Target Development Distribute a dividend of at least 50% of The Board of Directors proposes that a earnings over the cycle. dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid for the financial year 2019, representing 130.8% of operational earnings. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 21 Anchor Sustainability targets Anchor Sustainable power systems Target Development Contribute to the development of an In 2019, Wärtsilä's new product launches affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern included the Modular Block power plant power system worldwide. solution, the 31DF multi-fuel engine for energy industry applications, and the Engine+ Hybrid Schedule: 2020 Energy solution, which pairs engines with energy storage to support renewable energy adoption. Wärtsilä signed partnership agreements with Aalto and LUT Universities to collaborate on research aimed at achieving 100% renewable energy systems. In addition, new partnerships were announced with Soletair Power Oy and Q Power Oy to develop clean fuels. Some 1,540 MW capacity of modern, highly efficient, and flexible gas and liquid fired Smart Power Generation plants were sold during the year. Anchor Small-medium scale LNG solutions Target Development Become a global actor in the LNG value chain Wärtsilä successfully handed over the Tornio by developing opportunities, creating Manga liquefied natural gas (LNG) receiving solutions, and building infrastructure for cleanterminal in September 2019. Wärtsilä supplied burning LNG to replace liquid fuel. the terminal with an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) solution that included Schedule: 2020 complete unloading, storage, pipeline distribution, regasification, truck loading, and ship bunkering facilities. In the Hamina LNG terminal, the tank top module was lifted into position, civil works continued, and the mechanical contractor work started. Anchor Energy savings Target Development Reduce energy consumption by at least 7% in By the end of 2019, energy savings of 3.4 terms of absolute consumption (GWh) from GWh were achieved, representing 11.4% of 2015 levels by 2025. the final target. Schedule: 2025 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 22 Anchor Ethical behaviour Target Development Ensure commitment to the Code of Conduct Training records are continuously monitored. throughout the organisation (with a Code of At the end of 2019, the Code of Conduct Conduct training coverage of 100%). training coverage was 94.3% of all employees. Schedule: 2020 Anchor Occupational safety Target Development Reach the long-term goal of zero injuries. In 2019, the corporate lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIF) was 2.25. It was slightly Schedule: 2020 above the annual target of 2.14, but it nevertheless represents a 10% improvement compared to 2018 (2.50). Proactive measures continued throughout the year. As a highlight, management safety walks increased by 56%, and near miss / hazard reporting by 14% compared to 2018. Wärtsilä also initiated a new training programme “Champions in Safety” for front line employees. Altogether, 3,900 persons completed the training in 2019. Anchor Well-being at work – car career eer Target Development Establish a balance between external and In 2019, 64% of open vacancies were filled internal recruitments, with more than 50% of through internal selections for job levels 3 and the open vacancies filled from the internal up, and 36% through external selections. applicant pool, including promotions and lateral moves. Schedule: 2020 Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 23 Personnel development Target Development Reach 100% coverage for development By the end of 2019, altogether 91% of the discussions. company’s employees had completed development discussions. Schedule: 2020 Anchor Diversity Target Development Increase the share of female employees to In 2019, the share of female employees was 20%. 17%. Schedule: 2020 Anchor Climate change Target Development Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In 2019, Wärtsilä launched the 31SG pure gas from gas engines by 15% from 2015 levels by engine for marine market applications. 2020. Greenhouse gas emissions from gas engines were reduced by 8.6% from the baseline year. Schedule: 2020 Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 24 Decarbonisation of transport Target Development Contribute to the development of more In 2019, Wärtsilä's product launches included sustainable transportation through gas-based the Navi-Planner voyage planning and and other technologies. optimisation solution, the Wärtsilä 31SG pure gas engine for marine market applications, and Schedule: 2020 the Wärtsilä HY hybrid power module for dredging operations. In the Intellitug project, Wärtsilä, together with PSA Marine, made feasible an autonomously operated harbour tug concept with trials being carried out under real-world conditions. Wärtsilä joined the Zero Emission Energy Distribution at Sea (ZEEDS) initiative and the Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition to advance zero emissions shipping and commercially viable deep-sea zero emission vessels. Anchor Climate change Target Development Reduce CO2 emissions from vessels by more The estimated reduction in CO2 emissions than 300,000 tons annually with the help of during 2019 was approximately 234,000 tons. Eniram solutions. This was an 18% improvement compared to the previous year. Schedule: 2020 Anchor Supplier monitoring Target Development Reach the following rating coverage for In 2019, the rating coverages were: suppliers: • 96% of direct global supplier spend • 96% of direct global supplier spend • 76% of indirect supplier spend rated • 69% of local supplier spend • 70% of indirect supplier spend rated • 80% of local supplier spend rated Schedule: 2020 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 25 Anchor Wärtsilä Marine Business We are on a mission to create a Smart Marine Ecosystem – one in which the maritime industry uses only the cleanest available fuels. One where on-board power production is optimised, and routes are precision-planned to avoid navigational hazards, traffic congestion, and unexpected waiting times. Through our know-how, integrated product portfolio, and full lifecycle solutions – all supported by the market’s most extensive service network – we are committed to being the main driving force in sustainable shipping. Wärtsilä has a strong position in the maritime industry. Today, more than 50,000 vessels operate with one or more installed Wärtsilä products. Wärtsilä also provides maintenance services to one out of every three vessels navigating our oceans. Responding to the challenge of decarbonisation The biggest challenge facing the maritime industry is to move towards decarbonisation. Over the coming decades, industry players must work together to produce economically viable options that meet the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO) greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets. Owners of individual vessels and entire fleets must embrace changes in three areas to enable a transition towards decarbonisation. These areas include the use of technologies that improve energy efficiency, the use of data to optimise voyage and operational factors, and the shift of energy sources and fuels towards green alternatives. Wärtsilä has a broad offering in all these three areas, and we are committed to supporting our customers in their decarbonisation efforts and to collaborating with industry stakeholders, such as regulators, energy companies, and classification societies, to bring decarbonisation to reality. This commitment is based on our deep understanding of our customers’ businesses, our technological leadership, and having the industry’s broadest portfolio of hardware and software solutions as well as the most extensive service network. Anchor Serving various customer gr groups oups during the entir entiree lifecycle of their vessels Wärtsilä’s marine customer base covers all the main segments, including traditional merchant vessels, gas carriers, cruise ships & ferries, as well as naval and special vessels. In the oil and gas industry, we are active in serving offshore installations and related industry vessels. During the shipbuilding process, tight cooperation with the shipyard and ship owners is required in order to design and build the vessel according to the specifics of each business operation. It is also important to have a newbuild plan that allows the flexibility to accommodate adaptations during the life of the vessel, in order to achieve the transition towards decarbonisation. Our customers at various stages during the lifecycle of the vessel include ship owners, ship operators, ship management companies, charterers, and port authorities. Such customers have a stake in: • Planning and execution of voyage and operations, securing safety and competitiveness in operating costs • Planning and execution of maintenance to maximize the uptime of their assets • Maximising asset utilisation • Upgrading and retrofitting vessels to comply with regulations and GHG emission targets Shipowners’ decision-making is impacted by freight rates, interest rates, and the capital and operating costs of the ship. Other factors, such as environmental compliance and fuel flexibility, including the transition towards green fuels, are also important. The decision-making process is increasingly influenced by cargo owners and charterers, who are keen on securing the safety of operations, enhancing environmental performance, and lowering fuel consumption. Ports have also become increasingly active in addressing congestion, emissions, and safety. Wärtsilä’s offering in ship-to-shore connecting software includes applications that address the needs of port authorities, such as just-in-time ship arrivals. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 26 Wärtsilä is committed to continue serving a broad customer base. Moreover, we are committed to collaborating with different stakeholders to address the industry’s biggest challenges and to making a step change in the sustainability aspects of maritime operations. Anchor Our of offering fering is the br broadest oadest in the industry Wärtsilä’s market presence, combined with having the broadest offering in the industry, enables us to understand the needs and requirements related to each of these segments – from initial vessel design choices to everyday operations, in each voyage and throughout the vessel’s lifecycle. We provide innovative and competitive hardware and software solutions, delivered efficiently and with high quality. Our offering comprises engines, propulsion, exhaust gas cleaning systems, electrical solutions, seals and bearings, water and waste treatment, gas solutions, as well as automation, navigation, and communication systems, fleet operations solutions, ship traffic control, simulators and training, and lifecycle solutions. Anchor Our unique value prproposition present oposition is pr esent thr throughout oughout thr three ee value pillars: Energy management Voyage management Asset and fleet management Within a single vessel, new or Fr From om port to port for both Identify Identify,, plan and perform all existing, we prprovide ovide existing and new vessels maintenance and upgrades for technologies and services to: a vessel and a fleet, while safeguar safeguarding: ding: Optimise the use of fuels and fuel Towards autonomy: Planning and Minimised emissions to air and choices in order to produce executing a safe route with justwater energy in an economical and in-time arrival, including sustainable way throughout the departure and docking in vessel’s lifecycle potentially highly congested port areas Minimise emissions to air with a Optimisation: Providing guidance Minimised downtime and savings solid path towards the and, for certain applications, in operating expense items, such decarbonisation of the maritime automatically adjusting as fuel, manning, and industry operations to increase efficiency maintenance and reduce waste, e.g. excess fuel consumption per single voyage and at fleet level Manage energy demand and Maximum utilisation rate distribution Minimise energy losses Reliable and safe operations Wärtsilä has a solid record in guaranteeing the performance of the customers’ assets. Our recent investments in technology developments – from equipment to data collection, connectivity, analytics, and insights generation – give us the unique ability not only to detect anomalies in equipment performance but to address such anomalies with needed actions. In short, we enable more sustainable, safe, and profitable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 27 Market drivers The global demand for new vessels is mainly driven by developments within the global economy, and the resulting impact on trade and transportation capacity requirements. Other factors, such as shipyard capacity, newbuild prices, decommissioning and scrapping, fuel prices and availability, as well as interest and freight rates, also affect decisions related to the building of new vessels. The commitment that the industry has taken towards decarbonisation via the IMO’s GHG targets is the main driver affecting choices being made for newbuilds and all aspects related to operations, including needs for retrofits and upgrades. The main driver for Wärtsilä’s service business within the maritime industry is the size and age profile of the installed base, paired with the running hours of such equipment. Anchor Competitive landscape and market position As a result of the broad offering portfolio and global market presence, Wärtsilä’s field of competitors is extensive. These contain several Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), including engine companies such as MAN Energy Solutions, Caterpillar and HiMSEN, propeller makers such as Schottel and Thrustmaster, and environmental and auxiliary equipment providers like Alfa Laval. Our competitors also include electrical and automation houses, notably Siemens, GE and ABB, gas system providers, such as TGE Marine, and companies with a broad range of offerings such as Kongsberg. The main source of competition for maintenance services is independent service companies operating globally, and local players with a limited offering scope, such as parts traders, repair yards, local workshops, component suppliers for spare parts (non-OEM), and field service businesses. Wärtsilä is recognised as a proven supplier of innovative and sustainable technologies and software across its portfolio serving the maritime industry. Wärtsilä has a unique opportunity to comprehensively address the challenge of emissions from shipping by providing financially attractive solutions, and by supporting the move towards decarbonisation. Wärtsilä’s strengths are: • Strong knowledge and presence in all major maritime segments • The broadest portfolio of reliable and high performing equipment and software in the industry • Ability to support our customers on the journey towards decarbonisation, with solutions in all needed areas to reach GHG targets, i.e. the use of data, energy efficiency, and fuels • A unique software platform solution (Fleet Operations Solution) to connect ship-to-shore and to use data to optimise voyage planning, fleet use, and operations • A complete lifecycle service offering supported by an unmatched global service network and technical support • The capability to lower operational risks for our customers and guarantee asset performance This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 28 Anchor Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä leads the transition towards a 100% renewable energy future. We help our customers unlock the value of the energy transition by optimising their energy systems and future-proofing their assets. Our offering comprises flexible power plants, energy management and storage systems, as well as lifecycle services that enable increased efficiency and guaranteed performance. Wärtsilä has 72 GW of installed power plant capacity in 180 countries around the world. Anchor We serve thr threeee main customer segments Wärtsilä’s three main customer segments in the energy markets are Utilities, Independent Power Producers (IPPs), and Industrial customers. Utilities supply electricity, heat, and gas to residential, commercial, and industrial end users. They invest in various types of power generation and energy storage assets to ensure adequate load coverage, and the right palette of cost-effective and reliable products and services for their customers. IPP’s are financial investors investing in power generation and energy storage assets. They then sell the generated power either to utilities or directly to end customers. Their investments are return driven, and as with utilities, their technical requirements are application driven. Industrial customers are mainly private companies with energy intensive production operations. By investing in captive power, they can achieve lower energy costs and be prepared for any grid reliability issues, thus ensuring security of supply. Wärtsilä serves the top end of this customer group, i.e. large industries requiring a relatively high electrical load, such as data centres, cement factories, and mining operations. Anchor Our of offering fering is based on flexibility and lifecycle support Wärtsilä’s energy solutions are used for a wide variety of applications. These include baseload generation, capacity for grid stability, peaking and load-following generation, and optimisation of high renewable content power systems. We provide our customers with a comprehensive understanding of energy systems, including fully integrated assets and advanced software, complete with value adding lifecycle services. Our flexible power plants are tailored according to specific customer requirements, utilising modular products and services. The delivery scope ranges from equipment deliveries to complete engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) packages, supported by superior project management capabilities. Wärtsilä’s power plant solutions provide the best means of support to power systems by offering the highest degree of flexibility, thereby enabling the design and build-up of high renewable content power systems, while minimising the system costs. Combined with our offering of energy storage and advanced software for energy management, our solutions enable the transition to a sustainable, reliable, and affordable low carbon power system. In markets where this power transition is still to come, Wärtsilä’s solutions provide efficient, reliable, and flexible baseload solutions, which can be shifted to back up renewable power in the future. With services ranging from spare parts and basic support to full operations and maintenance agreements, we ensure maximised life and increased availability for plants, along with a lifecycle cost guarantee. The performance of our customers’ installations is optimised over their lifecycle through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions, as well as solutions enhancing safety and cyber security. The shift in our customers’ business models increases the need for asset management services and drives opportunities for using real time monitoring and analytics to optimise their business performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 29 Anchor Market drivers In the energy markets, the main drivers for Wärtsilä are: • Economic growth, electrification, and improving standards of living • Rapidly increasing use of renewables and phasing-out of inflexible thermal capacity • Decentralised energy • Increasing role of flexible gas • Emerging storage technologies • Data and digitalisation Economic growth, improving standards of living, and consequential electrification are jointly resulting in increased electricity consumption in non-OECD countries. The development of a more sustainable energy infrastructure is being driven by climate policies and economics. Tightening emissions legislation is forcing the closure of ageing capacity, with carbon-intensive energy sources being replaced by low carbon fuels, such as natural gas and renewable power sources. Investments in renewable generation are growing as solar and wind become increasingly cost competitive. This, in turn, is decreasing the running hours of conventional thermal capacity and creating a substantial need to add flexibility into power systems through energy storage and flexible capacity. Gas as a fuel is seen as having a key role in providing flexibility to the system. In the future, gas will be more and more carbon neutral as power-to-gas technologies utilising renewable energy to produce synthetic fuels penetrate the markets. New data, along with platform-based business models and solutions, enable system level integration and asset base optimisation throughout the entire lifecycle. Anchor Competitive landscape Wärtsilä’s main competitors in large gas-fired projects are gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE, Siemens and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems. When competing against gas turbines, Wärtsilä’s combination of high efficiency, greater fuel flexibility, and superior operational flexibility enables better value propositions for many different types of customer projects. In smaller gas power plants, and in the liquid fuel power plant market, the competitors are mainly other internal combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Energy Solutions, Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce, as well as high speed engine manufacturers. Wärtsilä’s advanced gas and dual-fuel engine technology, optimised modular power plants, superior project management capabilities, and the global service support provided throughout the lifecycle of installations, have led to Wärtsilä holding a leading position in the gas and liquid fuel combustion engine power plant markets. When looking at energy management systems and battery storage, the competition comes from companies such as Fluence, NEC and Tesla, among others. Competition within maintenance activities is fragmented in nature and consists mainly of local players with a limited offering scope. The competition for lifecycle solutions comes from a few regional players capable of offering plant operational services. In asset performance management related services, there are new and more established competitors that provide software and analytics across industries, while some utilities are establishing these skills and knowledge in-house. Wärtsilä’s strengths: • Competitive capital cost and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) capability • Unique operational and fuel flexibility • The most proven software platform for the optimisation of renewable energy sources • Strong track-record in operations and maintenance, optimising operating costs and increasing plant availability and efficiency throughout the plant’s life • Global technical support capabilities and know-how This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 30 Anchor Manufacturing and R&D Wärtsilä’s approach to manufacturing emphasises safe, innovative, and digitally connected processes. A strong culture of operational excellence and a commitment to continuous improvement form the basis for ensuring ontime, cost-competitive, and high-quality deliverables from advanced production environments. The main manufacturing activities of our digitalised factories are focused on the assembly, testing, and finishing of products, as well as on the in-house production of key components. Technology leadership is continuously emphasised in our R&D activities. A global manufacturing footprint moving towar towardsds an Extended Enterprise V Vision ision We have a global manufacturing footprint that is continuously optimised for competence, availability, customer presence, and efficiency. Our assembly-based manufacturing model, which is strongly connected to a broad network of suppliers, provides a high level of flexibility in capacity. To further leverage this network and to support our Smart Marine and Smart Energy Vision, we are investing in the creation of a Smart Manufacturing Ecosystem, wherein all the main partners, suppliers, and different manufacturing sites are connected to create an extended enterprise. The investment in the Smart Technology Hub in Vaasa, Finland, is a core element in this ecosystem. We work in close co-operation with carefully selected suppliers from around the world, and through excellent relations and information sharing we can ensure market-conforming lead times for component supplies. The sourcing strategy emphasises performance and innovation. The aim is to continuously develop and strengthen the company’s global supply chain to maintain quality and cost competitiveness. A high level of connectivity, the smart use of advanced technologies, data integration, and seamless information sharing form the crucial backbone of Wärtsilä’s Smart Manufacturing Ecosystem. For this reason, we are piloting machine learning and analytics to secure value from data gathered throughout the value chain. Our continuous strive for quality and efficiency is supported by the company’s strong operational excellence mindset, as well as investments in top-notch advanced manufacturing technologies and automatised solutions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 31 Towar owards ds a sustainable futur futuree thr through ough R&D In order to power a sustainable future for the marine and energy markets, we utilise digitalisation and the development of smart technologies to deliver new products and solutions. A substantial proportion of the investments we make in product and solution development is targeted at securing environmental compliance and providing shortand long-term benefits for our customers. As a result of this approach, Wärtsilä is well positioned to support customers in reducing emissions and decreasing the use of natural resources. Wärtsilä develops technologies that comply with ever more stringent sustainability targets, in both the Energy and Marine Businesses. New technologies are under implementation to secure both current and future sustainability demands. Such trends include a shift towards the use of carbon neutral fuels, such as bio and synthetic fuels, and Wärtsilä has both the required know-how and the technologies and products to enable this transition. Optimising the quality of our new solutions and their time to market is carried out using increased levels of simulation, modularisation, virtual testing, and validation. The focus is on continuous improvement, thereby securing reliability and safety without compromising quality. Only after the solutions have successfully passed all the validation process steps and confirmation that the performance meets Wärtsilä's high standards, new products can be delivered to the market. Accelerated customer value cr creation eation thrthrough ough Open Innovation Forming meaningful connections with a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, partners, government agencies, academia and start-ups, forms the foundation for our Open Innovation activities. By cocreating and collaborating within our ecosystem, we can significantly decrease the time span from innovation to market and respond to new market needs faster. This is amplified by co-creation activities with customers to ensure that all new products and solutions create maximum value, from the assembly line throughout the full asset lifecycle. The Open Innovation approach is promoted via our increased presence in start-up activities globally. We regularly participate in a variety of start-up accelerators and we have invited partners to co-create, prototype, and validate new products and solutions in our new Smart Partner Campus. By working together with partners in Wärtsilä R&D centres, quick insights into the potential customer values can be identified. The Open Innovation approach brings together capabilities and resources from the ecosystem to accelerate the creation of industry-leading solutions. Resear Research ch collaboration pr programmes ogrammes Wärtsilä participates with partners in research collaboration programmes involving universities, research institutions, and industrial partners to increase the reliability and efficiency of products, while striving to reduce their environmental impact. The Integrated Energy Solutions to Smart and Green Shipping (INTENS) programme is one in which Wärtsilä is participating. INTENS is an industry-wide joint effort dedicated to advancing and promoting the digital transformation in marine industries and beyond. Smart T Technology echnology Hub Wärtsilä is building its Smart Technology Hub, a new centre of research, product development and production in Vaasa, Finland. Several major milestones in the programme were reached during 2019 as the project progressed from planning to implementation. In August 2019, the excavation work and construction was started. The groundbreaking ceremony was organised on 10 September 2019. The first transfers to the new site are scheduled to take place in late 2020, and the Smart Technology Hub is to become operational during 2021. Inside the Smart Technology Hub, there will be a Smart Partner Campus where research and product development activities can take place together with Wärtsilä's customers and suppliers, start-ups and universities. In March 2019, Wärtsilä selected the first partners for the Smart Partner Campus. The first phase in the concept will be designed together with Danfoss, Demos Helsinki Oy, NLC Ferry Ab Oy, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd, Vaasan Sähkö Oy, and University of Vaasa. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 32 Anchor Innovating for sustainability Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. As a global leader in complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets, we play a key role in providing our customers with sustainable solutions and services that maximise their environmental performance. This is the cornerstone of our commitment to sustainability, and it is supported by our strong focus on responsible business conduct. The call for climate action, together with the world's growing energy demand and scarcity of natural resources, is increasing the need to speed up the transition towards clean and flexible energy and low-emission and smart transportation. Wärtsilä continuously invests in developing technologies for a 100% renewable energy future and a Smart Marine Ecosystem. Sustainable innovation and product development, added with our strong emphasis on digitalisation and smart technologies, are essential for meeting current customer needs, future requirements, and for remaining an industrial frontrunner. Cr Creating eating a sustainable futur futuree thr through ough R&D Wärtsilä develops sustainable solutions across a broad front, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, the reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, waste treatment, noise abatement, hybrid and energy storage systems, as well as effluent and ballast water treatment. Our proactive approach to meeting future demand has resulted in the development of both primary and secondary abatement technologies and has broadened the range of usable fuels. Moreover, Wärtsilä actively develops digital innovations and advanced data analytics systems for the maritime and energy sectors. We offer intelligent digital solutions and services to collect, analyse, monitor, and report data in order to optimise operations and reduce emissions. Our commitment to investing in research and product development benefits our customers as well as the environment, both in the short term and over a longer time span. The key features of our environmental solutions and services include: • Compliance with environmental regulations • Lifecycle support and optimisation • Reliability, safety, and a long lifespan • High efficiency • Digital intelligence • Low emission levels • Renewable energy integration with engines and storage systems • Fuel flexibility • Dynamic capabilities • Low water consumption By combining these key features, and understanding the system level benefits of our offering, we are able to provide solutions that enable the development of sustainable shipping and power systems. Anchor Impr Improvements ovements in ef efficiency ficiency Fleet efficiency Wärtsilä Fleet Operations Solution (FOS) is designed to achieve the highest level of safety at sea, increase fleet efficiency and simplify everyday tasks both ashore and on board. FOS unites all navigational processes and voyage data on a single platform, making the crew and the operations centre work as one. FOS offers improved operational processes relating to fleet performance, voyage planning and execution, weather routing, and ship-to-shore reporting in compliance with environmental regulations such as EU-MRV and IMO-DCS. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 33 Total vessel and voyage efficiency An efficient and low emission system for the entire vessel is achieved by combining optimised ship design with Wärtsilä's knowledge of automation, machinery, propulsion, and control systems. Wärtsilä has developed numerous efficiency concepts, such as the Electric Propulsion Systems Low Loss Concept (LLC) and Low Loss Hybrid (LLH). Wärtsilä also offers vessel and voyage efficiency optimisation services that improve energy efficiency, reduce emissions and costs, and help make the best possible decisions for asset management and voyage performance. Power plant efficiency Wärtsilä engine-based power plants offer the highest single cycle efficiencies with outstanding flexibility using a broad range of fuels. Total plant efficiency can further be improved and optimised by adding hybrid solutions, FlexicycleTM solutions (steam combined cycles), combined heat and power (CHP), trigeneration (power, heat and cooling), and also through Wärtsilä lifecycle solutions, which ensure that the power plant operates in the most energy-efficient way and in accordance with regulations. Wärtsilä also offers tools for the smart integration of energy production and storage at the system level. Engine efficiency imprimprovements ovements A long-term focus on improving engine efficiency has resulted in Wärtsilä engines having the highest efficiency ratings among existing prime movers. A key success factor has been the development of integrated engine functionalities that enable low emissions and high engine efficiency. The Wärtsilä 31 engine has the best 4-stroke engine fuel economy in the world. The Wärtsilä 31SG is the newest gas engine we offer, taking efficiency to a new level for internal combustion engines. Pr Propulsion opulsion efficiency upgrades Propulsion products incorporate environmental features and are critical to the overall environmental impact of the vessel. Wärtsilä’s generation propulsion units and energy saving solutions, such as the Wärtsilä EnergoFlow, result in significant fuel efficiency improvements by up to 10% and reduce NOx and CO2 emissions. Reducing emissions to air CO2 and other gr greenhouse eenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Wärtsilä focuses on the development of technologies that reduce GHG emissions in numerous ways. These include, among others, gas and multi-fuel engines, as well as solutions for environmentally advanced vessels, voyage optimisation, and energy storage. Wärtsilä's flexible energy solutions enable a transition towards a 100% renewable energy future. At the system level, GHG emission reduction is achieved by enabling the optimal integration of renewable energy sources and the use of renewable fuels. SOx emissions Wärtsilä provides several solutions to help customers reduce emissions of SOx and comply with local and global regulations. Wärtsilä's technology development supports solutions that enable the use of fuels with different sulphur contents, as well as systems that clean sulphur from exhaust gas and enable the use of alternative fuels with close to zero sulphur content, e.g. natural gas. Wärtsilä exhaust gas cleaning systems (EGCS) not only reduce SOx emissions but also remove large levels of particulate matter (PM) and black carbon. The Wärtsilä EGCS can be customised for both the 0.1% limit in Emission Control Areas (ECA) and the global 0.5% cap agreed within the IMO. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 34 NOx emissions All Wärtsilä marine engine portfolio products are IMO NOx Tier II compliant. Wärtsilä solutions for IMO NOx Tier III compliance are Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR), dual-fuel engines in gas mode, and pure gas engines (Wärtsilä 31SG). The NOx emission levels of Wärtsilä stationary engine-based power plants are low enough to meet the most current environmental regulatory requirements. To comply with even the strictest environmental regulations, Wärtsilä offers solutions such as SCR. Pr Protecting otecting the marine envirenvironment onment Ballast water management systems Wärtsilä's Aquarius range of IMO and USCG approved Ballast Water Management Systems (BWMS) limit the spread of ballast water related invasive species and prevent their introduction to aquatic ecosystems. The Aquarius BWMS range offers both Ultraviolet UV (USCG type approved) and Electro Chlorination EC technology (USCG type approved). Waste trtreatment eatment Wärtsilä offers a complete, fully integrated wet and dry waste treatment system suitable for all vessel types and sizes. Wärtsilä’s innovative advanced waste water treatment technology, with external membrane separation, is based on biological degradation. The system allows for the high purity treatment of black and grey water in accordance with the most stringent global legislation, including the removal of nutrients such as phosphorous and nitrogen compounds, as required for special areas such as the Baltic Sea and Alaskan waters. Wärtsilä’s waste management product range also includes vacuum toilets and collection systems, food waste collection & treatment systems, solid waste handling, drying and incineration, and sewage treatment plants. Sustainable Innovations in 2019 The Wärtsilä 31 engine application range was expanded during the 2019, with the Wärtsilä 31SG pure gas engine being made available to the marine sector and the Wärtsilä 31DF multi-fuel engine to the power generation markets. The development of these engines is a direct result of Wärtsilä's on-going commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its gas engines by 15% by 2020 from 2015 levels. For the energy market, Wärtsilä also launched a hybrid energy solution for isolated and remote grids and a Modular Block power plant solution. For the marine markets, Wärtsilä launched several solutions in support of its Smart Marine Ecosystem vision, including new navigation solutions, hybrid solutions, and offering aimed at smarter performance and greater profitability. Smart Energy Systems Launch of Engine+ Hybrid EnergyEnergy: As with a hybrid vehicle, the solution pairs engines with energy storage to form a fully integrated, automated system that provides reliable and environmentally sound power generation with improved efficiency for isolated and remote grids, such as mining operations and other self-generation systems. The solution enables greater efficiencies, maintenance optimisation, emission reductions, and a more streamlined addition of renewables into power systems. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 35 Introduction of the Modular Block power plant solution solution: This pre-fabricated, modularly configured, and expandable enclosure for Wärtsilä medium-speed 34SG gas engine generators enables the reduction of on-site installation time from several months to a few weeks. It also makes Wärtsilä’s advanced medium-speed engine technology available for applications where it would not otherwise be viable. Medium-speed engine technology has inherently higher efficiency and lower lifecycle costs than containerised high-speed engines or gas turbine solutions. The Wärtsilä Modular Block is easy to integrate with renewable energy and storage systems. It is ideal for providing grid stability and balancing when integrating renewable energy sources with intermittent production. Introduction of the Wärtsilä 31DF multi-fuel engine to the energy industry: Wärtsilä’s latest engine and power plant solution to the power generation markets offers high efficiency and reduced fuel consumption and costs, while minimising carbon emission levels. The level of efficiency is retained even in partial load conditions, and the engine can resist output derating when operating in hot and humid conditions. Smart Marine Ecosystems Launch of RS24 high rresolution esolution radar radar: The RS24 is the world’s first commercially available K-band maritime radar. By detecting far smaller objects and at a much higher radar resolution than conventional S or X-band radars, the RS24 enables small vessels and other potential hazards close to large ships to be visible. This promotes safety, especially in congested shipping lanes and busy ports. The technology was developed by Guidance Marine, a Wärtsilä company. Launch of the Wärtsilä HY for Dr Dredger edger: This new product is based on Wärtsilä’s HY hybrid propulsion technology. It is aimed specifically at enhancing the efficiency and sustainability of dredging operations. The Wärtsilä HY for Dredger features a combination of different power sources, including engines and energy storage systems, power distribution equipment, and the Energy Management System (EMS). Sustainability is enhanced with reduced emission levels in all modes, with zero emissions attained when running in full battery mode. Unveiling of the new Navi-Planner voyage planning and optimisation solution solution: Developed by Transas, a Wärtsilä company, the new Navi-Planner makes use of the connected Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS) to significantly shorten voyage planning and to provide a minimum navigational safety standard for less experienced crews. Introduction of the new digital version of Operim – Operational Performance Impr Improvement ovement & Monitoring Monitoring: Operim provides owners and operators with constant, realtime data on Wärtsilä products and solutions installed on their vessels and utilises the latest digital technology to provide the data needed to allow the vessels, and the machinery driving them, to be operated at optimal efficiency at all times. It monitors performance constantly so that adjustments can be made as operating conditions, including external factors such as sea and weather, change. Upgrade and redesignation of the LJX series of modular waterjets to the W Wärtsilä ärtsilä WXJ series series: The development is based on a new axial pump design, which boosts performance with an increased thrust of as much as three percent, while the improved cavitation margins help reduce the environmental impact by lowering noise levels. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 36 Launch of the Wärtsilä 31SG pur puree gas engine for marine market applications applications: The Wärtsilä 31SG engine further reduces the total cost of ownership and the environmental footprint of vessels operating in regions where there is a developed gas infrastructure. Launch of Wärtsilä Dualguar Dualguard d – a new sealing solution for oil-lubricated vessels: The solution alleviates the risk of operational oil leakages and related non-compliance. It withstands extreme conditions, safeguards against fishing lines and other debris, and lessens the likelihood of a bonding failure, delivering enhanced operational and environmental efficiency. Partnerships enhancing sustainability In 2019, Wärtsilä signed several new partnership agreements and joined initiatives with leading and pioneer companies, universities, and other organisations to put the company’s purpose and strategic goals for a 100% renewable energy future and a Smart Marine Ecosystem into action. These partnerships aim to enhance new research and cooperation on innovative sustainable solutions, improve efficiency, and accelerate the development of close to zero emissions shipping and clean fuels. University partnerships enhancing rresear esearch ch Wärtsilä signed a partnership agreement with Aalto University in Finland to strengthen and broaden current cooperation, and to create solutions to challenges related to climate change, scarcity of natural resources, and digitalisation. Wärtsilä also signed a research agreement with Lappeenranta-Lahti University of Technology (LUT) in Finland on strategic power system modelling, with the aim of understanding and developing paths towards 100% renewable energy systems. Under the agreement, LUT University’s solar economy research group will support Wärtsilä’s development work and provide access to LUT University’s power systems database. Impr Improved oved efficiency Wärtsilä and Samsung Heavy Industries (SHI) signed a joint development project agreement aimed at improving the efficiency of LNG carriers and shuttle tankers. The joint development with SHI supports Wärtsilä’s commitment to creating greater efficiencies, better environmental sustainability, and improved safety for its customers. Towar owardsds close to zer zeroo emissions shipping Wärtsilä, together with five other leading Nordic industrial companies, joined forces to explore the fastest routes to achieve zero emissions shipping under the Zero Emission Energy Distribution at Sea (ZEEDS) initiative. In addition, Wärtsilä joined the Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition, which is committed to getting commercially viable deep-sea zero emission vessels powered by zero emission fuels into operation by 2030. Along with 74 other organisations, Wärtsilä is committed to the decarbonisation of deep-sea shipping and its energy value chains, in line with the most ambitious interpretation of the IMO’s carbon emissions reduction strategy and the latest relevant IPCC climate science. Moreover, Wärtsilä and Singapore-based PSA Marine agreed to collaborate in the co-creation of smart technologies for the marine sector, including the use of electric or hybrid technologies that further the use of low-emissions energy and propulsion systems. The intention is to integrate the deep capabilities developed in the IntelliTug project with new configurations and concepts of hybrid, electric, and other clean energy sources. Wärtsilä also signed a strategic five-year development agreement with Chinese state-owned shipbuilder CSSC Huangpu Wenchong Shipbuilding Company Limited to develop jointly a hybrid powered dredger, but possibly extending to other hybrid vessels as well. Clean fuels Wärtsilä provided seed funding to Soletair Power Oy, a Finland based start-up company operating in the field of Power-to-X. Soletair Power Oy has developed a unique concept to improve air quality in buildings by capturing CO2 and converting it to synthetic renewable fuel. In addition, Wärtsilä and Q Power Oy, a Finnish pioneer in This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 37 biomethanisation, signed a cooperation agreement to accelerate the development and commercialisation of renewable fuels. The companies will work closely together to further develop the market and to find business opportunities for biomethanisation and synthetic fuels globally. The collaborations with Soletair Power and Q Power are a continuation of Wärtsilä’s way of working with start-ups and other energy players to develop and scale up technologies and business opportunities that support a 100% renewable energy future. Anchor Why invest in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Wärtsilä’s strengths lie in our integrated services and solutions offering, data-driven innovations, close and long-standing customer relationships, and an unparalleled global presence. Supporting customers with lifecycle solutions Our business model is based on providing the marine and energy markets with smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. Our service activities represent approximately 50% of total net sales, providing a good foundation for achieving the long-term target of profitable growth. The demand for Wärtsilä’s services is supported by the increasing technological sophistication of the installed equipment base. Our commitment to investing in digitalisation provides opportunities to further develop our valueadding customer offering, for instance by leveraging advanced diagnostics to optimise performance. A leader in smart technology for the marine and energy markets The shift towards clean and flexible energy production, and the need for efficient and safe transportation, form the basis of our offering of smart solutions. As an industry frontrunner, we are committed to responding to the need for innovative and energy efficient solutions. Our digital transformation will provide enhanced customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. Continuous investments in research and development are vital for ensuring the competitiveness of our product portfolio and for securing a leading position in sustainable innovation. A capital-light business model emphasising incr increased eased ef efficiency ficiency Our manufacturing model is assembly-based, with shared production and R&D facilities. This creates flexibility in aligning operations to market conditions and synergies in innovation processes. We focus on continuous process improvement throughout the organisation in order to achieve operational excellence. Investing in technological leadership and pr providing eholder rretur shareholder oviding shar eturns ns Our sound financial position enables investments in research and development activities and developing the business through acquisitions, while offering solid dividends to our shareholders. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 This is Wärtsilä 38 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 39 Wärtsilä is included in the following sustainability indices: MSCI Global Sustainability Index Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) FTSE4Good Index Series Excellence Europe ECPI Global Carbon Equity Index & ECPI Global ESG Best in Class OMX GES Sustainability Finland S&P Global, The Sustainability Equity Index Index Yearbook STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index Dow Jones Sustainability Indices S&P Europe 350 ESG Index This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 40 Sustainability Sustainability at Wärtsilä 41 Stakeholder relations 43 Guiding principles 47 Management system 54 People management 55 Environmental management 57 Occupational health and safety 59 Responsible business conduct 61 Product design principles 62 Supply chain management 64 Sustainability data 66 Economic 66 Environment 68 Social 72 Compliance 77 UN Sustainable Development Goals and Wärtsilä 79 Report profile 82 Materiality assessment 83 Reporting principles 88 Independent Assurance Report 90 GRI and UNGC index 93 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 41 Anchor Sustainability at W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Our commitment to sustainability and responsible business is based on our purpose and strategy, which along with our sustainable development objectives create the framework for developing the company's activities and products. Wärtsilä’s strategy is based on three key areas, energy efficient solutions, lifecycle optimisation, and innovative solutions, all of which contribute to a more sustainable future in both the energy and the marine industry. Our strength is our technological leadership and therefore technology plays a central role in our sustainability work. Wärtsilä Energy Business and Marine Business focus on developing and providing sustainable solutions and services for the industries in which they operate. The utilisation of lifecycle data analytics will enhance our efforts on enabling sustainable societies with smart technology. The role of technology and R&D in our sustainability work is described in the Innovating for sustainability section. Wärtsilä's governance and risk management principles are described in the Governance section. Wärtsilä identifies and assesses its sustainability risks on an annual basis. Based on the current assessment, the sustainability risks are considered to be at a moderate level, and sustainability forms an opportunity for Wärtsilä. The overall management approach of sustainability is presented in the picture Wärtsilä’s sustainability approach. Wärtsilä’s strategy for environmental and social responsibility is presented in the Strategy section. Wärtsilä sets corporate level sustainability targets for the core areas. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 42 Wärtsilä's sustainability is systematically managed through the Group-wide guiding principles and management systems and practices in place for material sustainability topics and impacts. The key elements of Wärtsilä's sustainability management are described in the table below. The guiding principles lay the foundations for uniform management practices. The management approach covers procedures, processes, and systems to manage and monitor material topics. Guiding principles Management ar areas eas Material topics Code of Conduct People management Emissions QEHS Policy Product design Environmental compliance Policy of human rights, equal Environmental management Economic performance opportunities and fair employment Occupational health and safety Training and education practices management Occupational health and safety Corporate Manual Responsible business conduct Supply chain management The following voluntary commitments also guide Wärtsilä’s sustainability work. Wärtsilä has signed the United Nations Global Compact initiative and supports its ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to align our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations with these principles, and to engage in collaborative projects that advance sustainable development. Our Code of Conduct and sustainability approach provide the main framework for promoting the principles within our sphere of influence. In 2019, Wärtsilä joined the ResponSea initiative alongside other Finnish Marine Industry (FMI) members to drive sustainable development across the sector as part of Finland’s Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development. We have also signed an Energy Efficiency Agreement whereby Finnish industry voluntarily endeavours to use energy more efficiently for the period 2017-2025. Wärtsilä North America Inc. has signed the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) agreement. In 2019, Wärtsilä also joined the Getting to Zero Coalition, which is committed to getting commercially viable deep sea zero emission vessels powered by zero emission fuels into operation by 2030. More information about our new partnerships announced during the year can be found in the Innovating for Sustainability section. Our sustainability work is also described in the following sections: CEO review, Why invest in Wärtsilä, Sustainability highlights, The year 2019 and Stories. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 43 Anchor Stakeholder rrelations elations Active engagement with our stakeholders is vital for the development of our business activities, as well as for exchanging information, building long-lasting relationships, and contributing to the building of sustainable societies. At the corporate level, we have defined our most important stakeholders as being our customers, owners, suppliers, employees, and society in general. Wärtsilä subsidiaries define their own primary stakeholders. In addition to the ones mentioned above, these typically include residents close to production plants, educational institutes, and public authorities. Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct and supporting policies provide the foundation for the management of stakeholder relations. Stakeholder engagement Wärtsilä engages with its stakeholders in numerous ways to encourage and maintain active and open dialogue, and to seek innovative future solutions. For existing and potential customers, Wärtsilä arranges Customer Day events at different locations in various parts of the world. During these events, subjects of topical interest from both local and global perspectives are reviewed, and existing and future needs and challenges are discussed. In addition to Customer Days, the Marine Solutions and Energy Solutions businesses arrange, or participate in, hundreds of global industry-related events annually, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 44 including international and national seminars, exhibitions and conferences. These events are attended by customers, potential customers, and other stakeholders, such as investors, consultants, suppliers, students, and other interested parties Long-term research programmes and partnerships are an important means of enhancing open dialogue and cooperation with key industry players and important research institutions. Wärtsilä has actively initiated and participated in the development and work of several research partnerships, both locally and internationally. Partnerships announced in 2019 are presented in the Innovating for sustainability section. Focusing on analysts and investors: W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Capital Markets Day Every 18 months, the Wärtsilä Board of Management hosts domestic and international analysts, investors, and bankers to update them on Wärtsilä's strategy and future direction. In November 2019, 60 participants joined Wärtsilä's Capital Markets Day (CMD) in Helsinki, and a further 160 participants followed the event via the live webcast. Through open dialogue and by answering insightful and at times challenging questions from the audience, Wärtsilä took the opportunity to position itself in the market and explain how the company differentiates itself from the competition. The CMD is a combination of describing market trends, diving deeper into technical solutions, and having focused discussions concerning topical themes. Based on the feedback received, overall satisfaction with the event was high, and many noted that it provided interesting updates on market trends and Wärtsilä's positioning. The audience especially appreciated the external insight and analysis on the future of energy. Dialogue with employees takes place in many formats. More information about the procedures and processes to support active and engaging dialogue with Wärtsilä employees is described in the People management section. Wärtsilä also engages in an active and open dialogue with local and international public authorities and officials. The aim is to share information, provide expertise, and support authorities in improving the quality of regulatory matters. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in areas that are of importance to the company. Stakeholder Channels of dialogue Assessment tools gr group oup (Fr (Frequency) equency) Customers • Regular meetings • Customer satisfaction • Joint projects surveys (Continual) • Workshops, events and seminars • Quality surveys (Continual) • Dedicated communications • Corporate websites, social media channels • Conferences and exhibitions • Customer feedback system Employees • Open and continuous dialogue between management • Employee engagement and employees through internal events, communication survey MyVoice (Annual) channels and daily interaction • Pulse surveys (ad hoc, • Annual development discussions 1-4 times a year) • Check-in discussions and continuous feedback • Town hall meetings This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 45 • Internal communication channels • Training events • National statutory employee bodies and the European Works Council • Occupational health and safety committees • Collaborative innovation platform Spark • Compliance reporting • Continuous Improvement Proposals (CIP) and Initiatives Owners, • Management meetings with investors, financiers, and • Investor relations investors analysts surveys (Annual) • Annual General Meetings • Sustainability surveys • Capital Markets Days and indices (Annual) • Roadshows • Stock exchange and press releases • Annual and Interim Reports • Corporate websites, stakeholder magazines and newsletters Suppliers • Regular dialogue with suppliers on supplier • Supplier assessments performance and audits (Continual) • Supplier portal eTool • Supplier development support • Supplier Days Society • Engagement with public officials on issues such as the • Stakeholder feedback environment and occupational health and safety (Continual) • Meetings with decision makers • Corporate image • Position papers and consultations surveys (Annual) • Open door days • Sustainability reporting • Local communications • Sponsorships • Corporate websites, newsletters, social media Organisations • Regular contact with trade and industrial associations • Internal assessment of and public bodies memberships • Participation in boards and working groups (Continual) • Meetings, seminars, conferences and other events Universities • R&D and student projects • Preferred employer • Discussions with university administration surveys (Annual) • Thesis work and internships This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 46 • Events, seminars, lectures • Feedback from student and research projects (Continual) Media • Briefings • Surveys conducted • Site, factory and reference visits among business journalists (Annual) • Stock exchange, corporate and trade press releases • Media visibility and • Management and expert interviews share of voice reporting • Annual and Interim reports (Quarterly) • Stakeholder magazines, newsletters, social media Activities in organisations Wärtsilä takes part, and holds memberships, in organisations that are significant to the company’s business strategies and markets. We participate in activities organised by various international and national organisations and associations through our daily work, board and working group activities, as well as meetings, seminars and conferences. In 2019, new memberships included, for example, the Power to X Allianz (Germany) and the European Commission’s European Ports Forum. Key organisations for Wärtsilä and the nature of Wärtsilä’s involvement in these organisations at the end of 2019 are presented in the table below. Stakeholder Organisation Natur Nature e of activity Interest groups • Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) Board membership or • Finland Chamber of Commerce participation in activities of specific working groups: EK, ICC • ICC Finland Finland, Teknologiateollisuus. • International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Membership and participation in • Teknologiateollisuus – Federation of Finnish activities: Finland Chamber of Technology Industries Commerce, ICC. Industrial • American Public Power Association (APPA) Board membership or organisations • Association of Singapore Marine Industries participation in activities of (ASMI) specific working groups: CARILEC, CIMAC, Cogen • Brazilian Institute of Oil and Gas (IBP) Europe, EMA, Euromot, EUGINE, • Brazilian Thermoelectric Generators Association SEA\LNG, VDMA, WaterBorne (ABRAGET) TP. • Caribbean Utilities Association (CARILEC) Membership and participation in • Cogen Europe activities: ABRAGET, APPA, • Cruise Line International Association (CLIA) ASMI, CLIA, EGCSA, ESA, IBP, • Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) Interferry, Power to X Alliance, SGMF. • European Association of Engine Manufacturers (Euromot) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 47 • European Engine Power Plants Association (EUGINE) • Exhaust Gas Cleaning System Association (EGCSA) • Interferry • International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC) • SEA\LNG • Power to X Alliance • Society for Gas as a Marine Fuel (SGMF) • U.S. Energy Storage Association (ESA) • Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau (VDMA) • WaterBorne TP Standardisation • International Organisation for Standardisation Participation in activities. organisations (ISO) • Finnish Standards Association (SFS) International • Digital Transportation Logistics Forum (DTLF) Participation in activities through and EU • European Ports Forum (EPF) national delegations and other organisations organisations: IMO. • European Sustainable Shipping Forum (ESSF) Participation in activities: DTLF, • Global Compact Nordic Network (GCNN) EPF, ESSF, GCNN, GIA. • Global Industry Alliance (GIA) • International Maritime Organization (IMO) Other • Climate Leadership Coalition (CLC) Board membership: CLC. • European Energy Forum (EEF) Membership and participation in activities: FIBS, EEF. • Finnish Business & Society (FIBS) Anchor Guiding principles Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The key areas of the Code of Conduct include: compliance with laws, transparency and continuous stakeholder dialogue, respect for human and labour rights, fair employment practices, anti-corruption, anti-fraud, and data privacy. Implementing the Code of Conduct Group-wide Wärtsilä policies complement the Code of Conduct and the commitment to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in everything we do. The Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of our products and services. The policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all group companies. It This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 48 covers the following issues: human and labour rights, equal opportunities, well-being at work, non-harassment, and remuneration. The Corporate Manual also includes other policies, such as anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and supply management policies. The purpose of the manual is to safeguard compliance with relevant legislation, and to provide further guidance concerning daily business conduct. We take an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct, and promote its implementation through effective communication and training programmes for our employees. Application of the Code is monitored internally. We also have an externally hosted whistleblowing channel for all employees to report potential misconduct relating to the Code of Conduct or other Wärtsilä policies. Such reporting can be made anonymously and in 16 languages. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of our products and services. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Our supplier requirements and supplier management system are presented in the Supply chain management section. We monitor the actions of our suppliers and business partners, and have a stringent pre-qualification and monitoring programme for all sales intermediaries complemented with a tailored e-learning programme. The V Values alues and Code of Conduct pr programme ogramme We execute a Values and Code of Conduct programme, which includes various actions to strengthen the ethical culture of our company. The programme elements include Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct discussion modules, the signing of an individual Code of Conduct Undertaking, an e-learning programme, and inclusion of the Code of Conduct topic into the annual development discussions covering all employees. The purpose of the Values and Code of Conduct discussions is to create a common understanding and to strengthen the values and principles of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct. Additionally, every employee is required to sign a personal undertaking letter indicating that they have read the Code of Conduct and that they commit to complying with its contents in their work. Discussion sessions to rreinfor einforce ce ethical cultur culturee At Wärtsilä, we want to have the best possible working culture, and to help employees make the right decisions in their everyday work based on our values and ethical principles. To reinforce this, in 2019 we launched the Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct Discussion Session to all employees. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 49 These mandatory sessions were arranged as team discussions, and were led by line managers using an online digital workbook in 13 languages. The sessions included introductory videos and case scenarios, and were designed to complement the Code of Conduct e-learning through team discussions on applying our common principles and ethical issues in daily work activities. Altogether, more than 13,000 employees completed the session in 2019, and the overall feedback was positive. The majority of respondents to the feedback survey felt that the programme promoted active discussions, and increased their willingness to address ethical questions in the future. Code of Conduct Intr Introduction oduction Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. Each employee is expected to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty, and to comply with this code and its underlying policies and instructions. Compliance with laws All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. Each employee is expected to comply with the requirements of those laws and regulations that apply to Wärtsilä's operations and to his/her job and with the Wärtsilä principles of good corporate citizenship. Openness Wärtsilä promotes openness and transparency as well as continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, including customers and other business partners, shareholders, personnel, authorities, local communities, and the media. Stock exchange rules and competitive considerations may, however, in some cases restrict such openness and transparency. Wärtsilä strives to be honest and accurate when communicating with its stakeholders, and also Wärtsilä employees shall make their statements in accordance with this principle. Respect for human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of human rights as defined in the United Nation's Universal Declaration on Human Rights. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as defined by the International Labour Organization. In this respect, Wärtsilä upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In the case that these rights are restricted by local law, Wärtsilä endeavours to offer its employees alternative means to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced or compulsory labour, or the use of child labour. Fair employment practices Wärtsilä promotes freedom from discrimination based on race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, political beliefs or other characteristics protected by law. Wärtsilä fosters equal opportunity and our employees are selected and treated on the basis of their abilities and merits. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying from its employees. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 50 Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä endeavours to create hazard-free workplaces for its employees, contractors and others working in various locations by applying high standards of occupational health and safety. Wärtsilä strives to assure the safety of its products and solutions through its world-class product and solution development processes. Each employee is responsible for complying with the safety instructions, for using personal protection equipment when required, and for reporting on any shortcomings regarding safety instructions or protection measures. Conflicts of inter interest est Wärtsilä expects full loyalty from its employees. Employees must avoid situations where their personal interests may conflict with those of Wärtsilä. This means, for instance, that employees are not allowed to accept gifts or entertainment from a stakeholder, except a gift or entertainment of a minor value given on an occasional basis, providing it does not create a conflict of interest situation. Anti-corruption No Wärtsilä company or any of its employees may, directly or indirectly, promise, offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes or kickbacks of any kind, including money, benefits, services or anything of value. Such payments and favours may be considered bribery, which violates local legislation and internationally recognised principles for combatting corruption and bribery. Envir Environment onment Wärtsilä's target is to develop and produce for its customers environmentally advanced solutions and services that fulfil essential requirements, such as low emissions and high efficiency. Efforts are made to achieve sustainable development by means of raw material selection, processes, products, wastes and emissions through the use of the latest technical advances. Each employee shall comply with the policies and instructions regarding environmental protection. Relationship with authorities and local communities Wärtsilä maintains constructive co-operation with authorities and regulatory bodies, at both local and international levels. Wärtsilä seeks to play a role in serving the needs of the local communities whenever possible. Innovation and pr protection otection of pr proprietary oprietary information Wärtsilä supports and encourages innovation by its employees in all areas of its activities. Wärtsilä's intellectual property is one of its most valuable assets, and the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other proprietary information of Wärtsilä must be protected. At the same time, each Wärtsilä employee must respect the intellectual property rights of others. Accuracy of accounting rrecorecords ds Wärtsilä accounting records must be accurate and reliable in all material respects. Unrecorded funds are prohibited. The records must not contain any false, misleading, or artificial entries. Competition and fair dealing Competition laws aim to protect consumers and businesses against unfair business practices. Each employee shall comply with those laws. Actions such as participation in cartels, abuse of a dominant position in the market place, or the exchange of price or other commercial information between competitors are prohibited. Wärtsilä employees should be sensitive to competition concerns when attending occasions where competitors, or potential competitors, can be present. Anti-fraud Wärtsilä does not tolerate fraudulent behaviour or activities, such as embezzlement, fraud or theft. Such violations will lead to immediate termination of employment and are subject to criminal sanctions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 51 Implementation Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of this Code and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of this Code internally. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä promotes the application of this Code by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners. In the case that questions arise regarding the interpretation of, or compliance with, this Code, Wärtsilä Legal Affairs should be contacted. The application of the Code will be reviewed from time to time by the Board of Management, which may decide on necessary revisions or interpretations. Reporting violations Any Wärtsilä employee becoming aware of a potential violation of this Code must contact his or her superior or Wärtsilä Legal Affairs. The president of the respective subsidiary must be informed, unless he or she is party to the alleged violation, in which case the Group General Counsel of Wärtsilä Corporation must be contacted. Wärtsilä will investigate all reported matters with discretion. Wärtsilä shall not take any adverse actions as a result of such reporting against any employee reporting in good faith what he or she believes to be a violation of this Code. Sanctions Violation of this Code may lead to a warning, the termination of employment, and the payment of damages. Additionally, certain violations of a criminal nature can lead to criminal sanctions, such as fines or imprisonment. Quality, Envir Environment, onment, Health and Safety Policy Wärtsilä is a global leader in smart technologies and complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets. Protecting the environment, enhancing customer business, and contributing to a sustainable future is the essence of what we do. Our solutions and operations are safe, reliable, efficient, environmentally sound, and compliant with regulatory and other applicable requirements. We give the highest priority to preventing occupational injuries and illnesses by assuring safe and healthy workplaces in all of our business operations, and we authorise work to be stopped if conditions are considered unsafe, or if quality is being compromised. We set objectives and continually improve our QEHS performance. We actively eliminate defects and hazards, and reduce QEHS associated risks. We communicate and consult with employees and other relevant stakeholders to ensure that our QEHS practices are enforced and constantly improved. Our skilled organisation acts as a responsible global citizen. Policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices Human and Labour Rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, as defined in the United Nation’s Universal Declaration on Human Rights, ILO standards, and the UN Global Compact principles. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as stated by the International Labour Organization. In this respect the Group upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In case these rights are restricted by local law, the company endeavours to offer personnel alternative methods to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced and compulsory labour or the use of child labour. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 52 Wärtsilä complies with local legislation, regulations and agreements concerning human rights, employment and equal opportunities, including all laws pertaining employee data privacy, immigration, working time, wages and hours and employment discrimination. Temporary and part-time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees according to local legislation and collective agreements. Wärtsilä applies European Union directives, local acts of cooperation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements, and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Equal opportunities Wärtsilä is committed to fostering equal employment opportunities, in which individuals are selected and treated on the basis of their job-relevant merits and abilities and are given equal opportunities within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's policy is to treat all employees equally on the basis of their merits, without discriminating them on the basis of their race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, or political beliefs. Employee benefits and rremuneration emuneration The basic principle for remuneration in the company is to pay the same wage for the same job and the same performance. The salary is meant to be just, fair, and encouraging. Differences in individual salaries are based on how demanding the job is, on differences between competence, work experience, and performance, and not on gender. In general, temporary and part-time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Individual salaries are reviewed once a year in connection with the performance review and in the framework of annual salary increase guidance. The company may pay employees an annual bonus in accordance with company rules and based on separate bonus agreements. Based on financial and individual performance, the bonus outcome is determined once a year. Employees may be paid a spot bonus based on exceptional performance. Benefits, such as a company car, service year award, and well-being, fitness, and health services, are planned and implemented locally taking into account both company guidelines and national practices. Minimum notice period Wärtsilä complies with European Union directives, local acts of co-operation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Concerning the termination of employment, Wärtsilä respects national labour union agreements and employment legislation. In the case of occurrences having significant business or social implications, such as personnel redundancies, the transfer in full or part of production facility location, structural changes, as well as transnational effects, the EWC Working Committee and/or local employee representatives are consulted before decisions about such matters are made or, if that is not possible, as soon as possible. The objective is to provide information about any significant operational change at the time of planning. Competency management Wärtsilä's Competency Management and Development frame is a structured way to carry out long-term competence development plans within our businesses and functions. Wärtsilä has defined 16 global job families consisting of generic job descriptions for seven different demand levels. In the job description, the most critical competencies of the job are defined and used as a basis for individual position competence requirements. Typically, in the connection of annual development discussion, individual competencies are assessed against the job requirements and position profile. Competence assessment of our employees and a comparison with competence targets allow us to analyse competence gaps and create development plans accordingly. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 53 All learning and development activities in Wärtsilä strive to develop, maintain, and renew the shortand long-term skills and competencies required to fulfil our strategy. Having the right competencies available at the right time and being able to continuously adapt to a changing business environment are critical success factors for Wärtsilä. Consultation and information pr procedur ocedureses in Gr Group oup companies Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information within the Group are arranged in each country according to local legislation. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct calls for ongoing and open dialogue between the company's management and employee representatives through co-determination bodies, and employees are kept informed of both the Group's situation and that of their particular company. Company management and personnel engage in an open discussion also in those countries where there are no formal co-determination bodies as such. Regular briefings for personnel are an integral part of the operating procedures of Wärtsilä companies. Employee participation in decision-making also extends to occupational health and safety (OHS). Most Wärtsilä units have an OHS committee with representatives from all personnel groups. In addition to Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information for employees at the local level, the European Works Council (EWC) handles issues that affect at least two companies located in the EU and the Group as a whole. The EWC and its working committee play an active role in considering and pursuing transnational issues. Dialogue at the individual level is conducted through development discussions, which are held at least once a year. The subjects covered in these discussions range from the Group's and business unit's targets to the individual's job description, competence development, career alternatives, personal targets, and feedback. Development discussions are by definition held with all employees. Employees are able to have a direct impact on the company's operations and their development by making suggestions. Each Wärtsilä employee can offer suggestions for improvement in operations either through the continuous improvement process (CIP) or by submitting private initiatives. CIP-proposals are discussed jointly and need a common decision to be put into effect. Individual initiatives are evaluated by experts within the company and, if found to be feasible, are put into effect. Another global channel for new ideas is SPARK, a Wärtsilä-wide collaborative innovation platform which enables the handling of ideas in a transparent and efficient way, and gives all Wärtsilä employees the opportunity to be a part of the ideation process. Business performance updates are given to all personnel on a regular basis in connection with Wärtsilä interim reporting. The company intranet Compass and the employee magazines are the common global channels for internal communication. Recognition of excellent performance Wärtsilä encourages its employees to be innovative by granting an annual Technology and Innovation Award either to an individual or to a team for the best technical innovation of the year. The award criteria are that the invention must be innovative and environmentally sound, it must represent leading technology, improve a product or process, and offer potential for cost savings. Wärtsilä also grants annually a Customer Care Award for a team or individual who actively participated in the initiatives leading to development of business operations, quality improvements in how we serve and partner with customers, customer satisfaction, or Wärtsilä values demonstration. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 54 Anchor Management system Wärtsilä's management system aims to generate added value for Wärtsilä's various stakeholders, achieve the company's strategic objectives, support sustainability performance, manage operating risks, and enhance Wärtsilä's performance through the continuous improvement process. The system includes a range of tools, such as systems for managing quality, the company's environmental responsibilities, and occupational health and safety. Management reviews are conducted at various levels of the organisation to monitor the effectiveness of the system, the achievement of targets, and the development of key performance indicators. Wärtsilä's processes are developed in the Businesses, the Business lines, and the Functions. These development projects are governed by Group Control Development meeting and OD Portfolio Management Team, Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Reviews and the Functional Management Teams. Wärtsilä's Board of Management is responsible for defining the company's main strategies, principles and policies, and for the management system itself. The Board of Management regularly monitors the effectiveness and performance of the management system. Responsibilities are distributed to the line organisation at all levels of the company, and the management system defines a specific sphere of responsibility for each Wärtsilä employee. Work groups for developing the management system are appointed at the corporate level and in most Wärtsilä subsidiaries. At the Group level, the following work groups coordinate the development of product and operational issues: Work grgroup oup Focus Main tasks Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's quality, quality Quality Review process improvement, and achievement of strategic quality goals. Group Control Strategic operational Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's operational Development development development and the operational development meeting plans and governing the work of IM and Process development. Business Line Quality Support and oversee quality development based Quality Reviews on customer perception of our quality and full endto-end lifecycle view. Platform for focusing on the key improvement areas with the biggest impact to our customers. Cross-functional decision making to increase efficiency and shorten resolution lead time. Wärtsilä OD Portfolio Operational development Operational development road map, targets, and Management Team guidelines based on business strategies and targets, and overall operational development process responsibility for the approval of the Wärtsilä Controllers’ Team. Cross-divisional operational development alignment and harmonisation. Wärtsilä QEHS Quality, Environmental, Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä QEHS, QEHS Management Team health and safety and management system development, corporate level security (QEHS) QEHS measuring and target setting, and monitoring of legislation developments. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 55 Management systems Pr Proportion oportion of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä companies with certification Quality (ISO 9001) 90% Environment (ISO 14001) 67% Occupational health and safety (ISO 18001) 67% Anchor People management Wärtsilä’s People Strategy, as an integral part of group strategy, supports the company’s businesses in the successful implementation of their ambitions. This is achieved by developing the company employee skills, its organisation, competencies, and way of working to meet both current and future business needs. The key focus areas of the people strategy are talent and leadership development, culture, and performance excellence. Talent actions are aimed at ensuring that the businesses have people with the required skills and motivation at their disposal. Continuous learning, competence development and growth, as well as the flexibility to evolve the organisation and its ways of working, strengthen the company’s competitive advantage. The ongoing development of the company’s leaders’ and people’s development skills are integral to driving the company’s business agenda in an evolving marketplace, and for maintaining a relentless focus on providing value to customers and stakeholders. Strengthening accountability and ownership is encouraged by promoting employee engagement through a culture of open communication, integrity, and innovation. At the same time, Wärtsilä emphasises high performance and operational excellence throughout the organisation, including quality in the setting of targets, proper and regular feedback, the evaluation of overall performance, and recognition of outstanding performance. Talent and leadership development At Wärtsilä, equal opportunities and opportunities for professional and personal growth are core principles. The company empowers its employees by providing self-paced learning, and through encouraging people to drive their own career path to stay relevant and thrive in a rapidly changing business environment. Recruiting and retaining the best talent enables Wärtsilä to be a valued business partner to its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. In late 2018, Wärtsilä launched its new recruitment system, and with this and other development activities, increased the candidate experience significantly, helping Wärtsilä to attract new talent and promote the company as an employer of choice. This was demonstrated through a feedback survey to job applicants and hiring managers, where overall satisfaction was shown to be significantly positive. Candidates rated their overall experience at an average of 4.3 (out of 5), while hiring managers rated their hiring experience at an average of 4.1 (out of 5). In 2019, developments were seen also in Employer Branding with these developments being translated into the people domain, resulting in a renewed tone of voice. This helps Wärtsilä to represent itself as an employer, and to better communicate about itself and its purpose. In 2019, Wärtsilä continued its leadership development activities in many areas, with the aim of supporting line managers in their people development and leadership roles. Much focus is put on developing more virtual learning solutions to increase the flexibility and ease of access to learning, while saving both time and cost, and reducing emissions in line with our purpose. A new leadership development programme for senior managers was launched This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 56 mid-2019, with the focus on creating a Wärtsilä culture that builds and sustains high performance. The programme contains elements related to leading high performing teams, leadership and performance excellence, and customer centricity. The Growth Lab programme continued with the fourth cycle commencing in August 2019. Twenty Wärtsilä managers and future leaders, with 7 to 15 years’ work experience, were selected for this action learning programme based on applications. The participants selected three projects of strategic importance which were approved by the Board of Management. These projects are aimed at analysing and building possible future business opportunities. The fourth Growth Lab programme will end at the end of April 2020. Wärtsilä’s HR organisation has developed the Operational Excellence Academy learning framework, and an Operational Excellence learning portal, with supporting materials for all employees in the organisation involved in leading operational excellence initiatives. Close to 2,500 Wärtsilä managers and employees have participated in the programme between 2016 and 2019. The aim of the OE Academy is not only to learn, but to establish operational excellence as an integral part of the company culture and way of working, and to ensure continuous efficiency improvement. Learning on the job, self-learning, mentoring, coaching, job rotation, and assignments designed to encourage competence development and the sharing of competence and skills by experienced employees with their junior colleagues, are integral to the development of knowledge and competence within the company. Employees are given formal classroom learning opportunities at all organisational levels; from induction for new employees, to learning programmes for the company's top executives. Wärtsilä employees attended a total of 39,017 formal learning days during 2019; an average of 2.07 formal learning days per employee. Aside from formal learning in the classroom, and in line with living our purpose, there is a strong emphasis on and attention to the continued development of virtual learning solutions, and providing learning on the job through new ways of working. Transforming company cultur culturee Together with the company’s business transformation initiatives, Wärtsilä promotes new ways of working and a company culture that is defined for a changing world. Wärtsilä's purpose drives all activities, and the company’s values of “Energy, Excellence and Excitement” are strengthened by the diversity of its employees. Wärtsilä aims to capture opportunities and make things happen, to do things better than any of its competitors, and to foster openness, respect, and trust while creating an exciting work environment. A diverse workforce generates innovation, higher profits, has better complex problem-solving skills, and enables access to a larger talent pool. Wärtsilä embraces collaboration and co-creation in order to succeed in a complex and uncertain business environment, while maintaining individual accountability. Purposeful sharing and working transparently as one brings value, both internally and externally. Exploring and adopting new ways of working that foster collaboration and sharing form part of the transparent and inclusive approach. A diverse workfor workforcece generates innovation, higher pr profits, ofits, has better complex pr problemoblemsolving skills, and enables access to a larger talent pool. MyVoice is the Wärtsilä employee engagement survey, whereby all Wärtsilä employees are invited to give their feedback. MyVoice has been conducted globally since 2004. Since its introduction, MyVoice has proven to be an important means for developing our way of working and strengthening our culture. In 2018, the survey was updated to better meet our current needs. The survey covers 5 different subject areas: Leadership, Culture, Work, Development and Customer Orientation. The renewed survey is shorter and gives more attention to engagement and motivation. It is completely online and available on mobile devices. The survey will be conducted globally once a year in the future, instead of every two years as it was earlier. The new MyVoice survey is available in 17 languages and was conducted in January 2019 with a participation rate of 82.3%, with close to 16,000 employees responding. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 57 From the results it is clear that the majority of Wärtsilä colleagues across the world are inspired by the company purpose, and feel that their work is meaningful. In addition, safety continues to be a top priority and as a result, a separate MyVoice Safety Pulse survey was conducted in September 2019 to get greater insight into this topic. Performance excellence One of the essential elements of Wärtsilä’s People Strategy is to embrace and develop performance excellence throughout the organisation. Coaching to achieve better performance through smart target setting, together with continuous and real-time feedback, is central to this aim. A well-executed performance management process supports Wärtsilä in reaching its business targets by translating business strategies into team and individual objectives. Each Wärtsilä employee needs to know and understand Wärtsilä's business strategies and their goals. More importantly, everyone needs to know the main targets set for their own units, and the target areas related to their own work. Greater attention has been given to the quality and impact of the process by emphasising the importance of continuous feedback, clarifying expected behaviours, and creating opportunities for both professional and personal growth. Good coverage of the annual development discussions has continued globally, with 91% coverage being achieved in 2019. The performance management process supports line managers in their daily leadership roles. Each employee receives performance feedback, and an evaluation based on their overall job performance, as well as a personal development plan for the future. Overall performance evaluation is one of the considerations in compensation decisions, and is in line with the principle of performance-based rewarding. Wärtsilä Human Resources works to create a compelling employee experience by developing its people processes, tools, and ways of working across national and organisational boundaries. This includes investing in technologies and tools that enable quick access to online reports, employee information, and annual compensation planning for both local and multi-country teams. In the area of robotic process automation (RPA), Wärtsilä Human Resources has altogether 12 bots currently in production across different people processes, such as recruitment, rewarding, international mobility, reporting, time management, and data quality assurance. Bots do invisible work behind the scenes, which reduces a great deal of manual work, and in fact, makes it possible for professionals to focus more on value-adding tasks. People analytics is an area of growth and innovation for Wärtsilä Human Resources. In 2019, a number of HR and management team dashboards were created. These make data more tangible, and support data-driven decision making, while facilitating discussions on people topics and business performance. The company’s organisation and ways of working continue to evolve. In 2019, the focus has been on providing added value to customers in a competitive market situation by reducing complexity in the company’s structure, enabling faster decision making, and providing clarity on roles to encourage ownership and accountability. Embracing proactive change management and ongoing communications have been critical elements of this approach. Agile ways of working, design thinking, and a data-driven mindset are encouraged when understanding the customers’ businesses, their changing needs, and being able to deliver value to them. Anchor Envir Environmental onmental management One of the main objectives in our purpose of “enabling sustainable societies with smart technology” is to strive towards a clean and low-emission future. Our environmental management practices give full support to reaching this goal. For Wärtsilä, environmental responsibility has two dimensions: products and operations. Most of the efforts to improve our environmental performance, including our operations, are conducted as part of the product development and improvement processes. This work is supported by operational measures, which are based on achieving high environmental standards and which seek constant improvement. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 58 The continual improvement in environmental performance requires us to consistently work in a systematic way. This work is guided by our strategy and environmental targets, our Code of Conduct, as well as policies relating to Quality, Environment, Health and Safety, coordinated and monitored by the cross-business QEHS Management Team. In developing our operations, processes and products, we endeavour to utilise the latest technologies available for improving efficiency in areas such as material and energy consumption, as well as for reducing and managing emissions and waste throughout the lifecycle of our products and services. Operations and products are continuously developed and improved with the help of certified environmental management systems. The principle means is to apply certified Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) management systems based on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in all Group companies, excluding those companies focusing purely on sales. Our EHS management systems cover all operations carried out by our subsidiaries. This promotes environmental protection and allows the reduction of adverse impacts to be carried out on a wide front. Implementing envir environmentally onmentally sound cladding technology In 2018, Wärtsilä introduced a new robotised laser cladding technology (QS50K™) for reconditioning of large bore pistons in 2-stroke engines. This technology is now replacing traditional chrome plating in which environmentally hazardous hexavalent chromium is used. During 2019, Wärtsilä discontinued chrome plating in four service centres, and launched the new robotised and environmentally sound cladding technology in two service centres. Our EHS management system emphasises compliance with legal requirements, identifying and reducing environmental impacts and risks, training personnel and clearly defining their responsibilities, the full documentation of activities and procedures, actions to be taken in emergencies, and the continuous improvement of environmental performance. Our subsidiaries and business units set their own targets for covering the significant environmental aspects of their operations, and for monitoring the overall performance of their management systems. At the end of 2019, 55 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified environmental management system. These certified environmental management systems cover roughly 82% of our total workforce. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 59 Anchor Occupational health and safety Safety is one of Wärtsilä’s main values, and we are committed to creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and partners wherever we operate. We emphasise safety in our drive towards zero injuries by applying high standards of occupational health and safety, and by implementing action-orientated safety programmes and practices. Envir Environmental, onmental, Health and Safety Management Wärtsilä's occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the company's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's subsidiaries are required to have a management system in place that conforms to both the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. The main aspects of the management system relate to compliance with legislation, identifying and minimising occupational health and safety risks, personnel training, implementing effective health and safety programmes and instructions, recording and investigating occurred incidents, and the continual improvement of occupational health and safety performance. At the end of 2019, 55 Wärtsilä companies, representing roughly 82% of Wärtsilä's total workforce, were operating with a certified occupational health and safety management system in place. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies also apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees made up of company management and personnel representatives. Altogether, 85% of all Wärtsilä companies currently have an occupational health and safety committee. The indicators used to measure occupational health and safety performance include the number of accidents, the time of absence due to sickness, the frequency of accidents, and the number of near miss / hazard observation reports. Wärtsilä has set a corporate level target of achieving zero injuries. This target is a long-term commitment from the company to strengthen the safety culture, and it requires actions from all Wärtsilä companies and employees. The safety performance of each company is monitored on a monthly basis, and the results are reviewed by the Wärtsilä Board of Management. Safety measur measures es in 2019 In the beginning of 2019, the Board of Management initiated an Xcel Safety 2021 programme and set the challenging target of cutting Lost Time Injury Frequency by 50% by the end of 2021. The main drivers for this safety programme are the introduction of action-driven safety management practices, boosting the company´s safety culture, and empowering Wärtsilä’s safety network. As a practical step during 2019, 3,900 employees participated in a “Champions in Safety” training programme to enhance their personal risk awareness, and to take concrete actions to prevent accidents. Implementation of the training continues in 2020. In 2019, Wärtsilä also conducted a global safety culture survey aimed at initiating team discussion and action planning on different organisational levels. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 60 Safety Day 2019: Reinfor Reinforcing cing W Wärtsilä's ärtsilä's life-saving rules Wärtsilä conducted its annual worldwide Safety Day on 14 March 2019. Employees throughout the company spent time focusing on the company’s 10 life-saving rules and testing how well they can be applied in different scenarios. For example, employees in Norway discussed which safety rule was the most important for them, while the office in India held a drawing competition. In other offices, life-saving rules were emphasised using practical demonstrations. Confined space entry was explored in Spain, and employees in Finland tested how it feels to be in a car during an emergency stop situation. Throughout the company, Wärtsilä employees were involved in interactive exercises and team building in a relaxed atmosphere. In addition, a contest for the best safety tip video was launched, which resulted in dozens of videos being posted on Yammer. Employees actively voted for the best safety tip video, and many local offices carried out their own contests. In addition, Wärtsilä held its fifth global Safety Day on 14 March 2019 at Wärtsilä locations all around the world. The objective of the Safety Day event was to re-enforce Wärtsilä’s life-saving rules, and to empower our people to act if they see behaviour that is inconsistent with the rules. Intr Introduced oduced activity Description Lost time injury tracking Safety performance is reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of and targets Management, and targets are set on a yearly basis. OSHAS 18001 QEHS Management is certified based on the OHSAS 18001 standard within the Management systems business organisations. Safety Flashes Safety flash reports are lessons learned from occurred injuries and near misses, and are distributed globally within the organisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 61 Zero Injury Training Global training consists of e-learning (4h) and a practical workshop (4h). Management Safety A leadership tool that involves holding conversations on safety with employees. walks Global Safety Day An annual safety celebration that takes place throughout the Wärtsilä network. The theme changes every year. Stop work authority Wärtsilä QEHS policy authorises everybody to stop work in unsafe situations. Leader in Safety, Leader A leadership safety engagement training programme for all line managers and in business employees who have direct impact on front line operations. Duration is for one day. Xcel Safety 2021 The Xcel Safety 2021 programme sets the challenging target of cutting the Lost Time Injury Frequency by 50% by the end of 2021. The programme has new elements, such as action-orientated safety management, actions to boost a positive safety culture, and empowerment of the safety network. Anchor Responsible business conduct Human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent approximately 140 nationalities. We support fair and equal treatment of all our employees and the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization. Therefore, we work to ensure that there is freedom of association and right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, employees are offered other channels for expressing their opinions. We do not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct training material and also the Wärtsilä Supplier Handbook. At the end of 2019, 94% of Wärtsilä’s employees had successfully completed the Code of Conduct training. Pr Preventing eventing corruption and bribery Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as specific policies implemented for sales intermediaries, namely Agent, Broker and Distributor Policies, expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered to be a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The policies make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which we do or intend to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. We maintain an extensive training programme mandatory for all employees on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. At the end of 2019, 87% of Wärtsilä’s employees had successfully completed the Anti-Corruption training. Political lobbying Wärtsilä's policy is to engage in an open dialogue and discussion with both local and international public authorities and officials. The aim of the dialogue is to share information and improve the quality of regulation. We participate in This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 62 public consultations in the areas of importance to the company. Wärtsilä is registered on the Transparency Register of the European Commission. Competition rregulation egulation We have in place a competition compliance programme for managing risks relating to competition law, and our management is strongly committed to implementing this programme. The cornerstone of the programme is a competition law policy, which is kept up-to-date, providing information on competition rules and guidelines for our personnel. The competition compliance programme builds upon an e-learning module, based on the competition law policy. In addition, competition compliance trainings were held in 2019 for relevant personnel in order to promote knowledge of competition laws and compliance therewith. Security management Wärtsilä has a corporate security policy and various guidelines, which incorporate human rights considerations and international best practices. Our security management principles and strategies are reviewed and approved in the Wärtsilä Security Steering Group, which consists of Presidents of each Business, Executive Vice President for Corporate Relations and Legal Affairs, as well as Finance and Control and security professionals. Security management in Wärtsilä is divided into six specific security areas: Personnel, Premises, Information, Cyber, Crisis Management, and Travel Security. Operational security management in these areas is implemented on the business and local level. We prefer security service providers who are members of ICoCA (International Code of Conduct Association). Local community appr approach oach We aim to contribute towards the well-being of local communities in which we are present. This can be reached, for example, by creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and by supporting local development. The guiding principle of our Code of Conduct is to promote openness and good interaction with our stakeholders locally. This applies as much to the families of personnel, our neighbours, educational institutions, and the media, as to local authorities and officials. The methods used towards this end include Open Door days, press briefings, and different modes of communication for different target groups. As a truly international company, we have delivered solutions to more than 170 countries. We support our solutions globally during their entire lifecycle, often spanning up to 30 years. Thus, we can at times be present in countries facing various uprisings, ethnic conflicts, area disputes, or violations of human rights. Conducting business locally emphasises the importance of responsible business practices. Governments and the international community define the proper framework for companies to conduct their business. Wärtsilä complies with relevant legislation and international conventions. We comply with all relevant guidelines of the OECD and the International Chamber of Commerce, and with the sanctions set by the United Nations and the European Union, by supporting their implementation. Wärtsilä's impact on employment, the public sector, and the company's activities for charitable purposes are described in the Economic Performance section of this report. Measures to evaluate the impacts on local communities in case of operational changes of Wärtsilä subsidiaries are determined case by case. Anchor Pr Product oduct design principles Wärtsilä strives to develop environmentally sound, safe, and reliable products and solutions for its customers. By providing lifecycle maintenance, reconditioning, and retrofitting services, we are able to support our customers' operations throughout the life of our products. The reconditioning of engines and components increases their reliable service life, while modernising improves the current operational performance of installations and enables customers to meet tightening future regulatory requirements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 63 In order to ensure our ability to respond to future regulation stipulations, we actively monitor legislative initiatives and changes in environmental legislation. As a result, we have focused our R&D activities on the development of new environmentally sound products and solutions in order to meet the evolving demands of a changing operating environment. Meeting rregulatory egulatory rrequir equirements ements The majority of international environmental policies and requirements for Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are set by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) – a member of the World Bank (WB) group. On the regional or national level, organisations such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), the European Union (EU) and emission standards such as in the USA, Germany, Japan, and India, are also important policy and regulatory directors for Wärtsilä products. The IMO is responsible for adopting its own standards for the safety and security of shipping, and the prevention and control of marine pollution and emissions from vessels. The IMO regulates nitrogen oxide emissions and fuel sulphur content, as well as ballast water treatment procedures and limitations. Wärtsilä's engines are designed to meet the requirements of the EU Machinery Directive, the IMO Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), and other relevant safety directives. Wärtsilä's propulsion systems are designed to comply with the SOLAS and safety requirements of relevant classification bodies. Type approval is sought from classification societies before new products are launched. Wärtsilä's ship designs follow class society and flag state rules to ensure safe and compliant designs for its clients. Class approval is required for drawings and calculations delivered to the client before construction of the vessel starts. Type ApprApprovals ovals in 2019 In 2019, our Aquarius UV Ballast Water Management System (BWMS) was granted US Coastguard (USCG) Type Approval. Together with our other BWMS technology, the USCG Type Approved Wärtsilä Aquarius EC, we became the first manufacturer able to offer two USCG Type Approved BWMS technologies. In addition to the USCG approvals, both technologies have also been awarded Type Approval by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Additionally, our Exhaust Gas Cleaning (EGC) system was Type Approved in China by the China Classification Society (CCS). Full scale testing was carried out after its shipboard installation onboard a new Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC) was completed, and the relevant data was reviewed and reported by Dalian Maritime University, as an independent third party. The CCS Type Approval now means that the product can be installed on any CCS class ship without the need for further emissions testing. At the end of the year, Type Approval tests were performed for the Wärtsilä 14 high-speed engine, which was launched in 2018. The Wärtsilä 14 engine and engine automation Type Approval test was performed at Liebherr Machines’ Bulle factory in Switzerland. The test was witnessed by all seven standard classification societies for engines: ABS, BV, CCS, DNV-GL, LR, RINA, and RS. The IFC provides general and industry specific examples of Good International Industry Practices (GIIP), such as the Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants, which is today considered the minimum environmental standard in larger global power plant projects. When host country regulations differ from the levels and measures presented in the EHS Guidelines, projects are expected to comply with whichever is the more stringent. The EHS guidelines together with the IFC’s Environmental and Social Performance Standards are adhered to via the Equator Principles risk management framework in most projects in emerging markets financed by international financial institutions. In the EU, the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) set the main emission requirements for large and medium-sized combustion plants throughout the EU. EU Member States may set additional and/or stricter emission limits if needed, for example, to comply with ambient air quality standards. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 64 Lifecycle apprapproach oach Wärtsilä's products have a long operational life. Therefore, identifying the lifecycle impacts of our products is essential for understanding their total environmental impact. We manage the lifecycle of our products through their design, the careful selection of suppliers, production methods, and by optimising transportation, maintenance and repairs during the products’ operational life. Our products are delivered with adequate user guides that include basic information about the products and full instructions for their use. Moreover, we provide specific training and advice for our customers to ensure environmentally sound and safe utilisation of Wärtsilä products, and that the products and systems are used in the most efficient way. We also offer service agreements and products that help customers to optimise their operations, and actively support them in selecting suitable solutions already in the early phase of projects. Anchor Supply chain management Suppliers play a significant role in our delivery process. We aim to have close and excellent relationships with our key suppliers in order to ensure that both parties understand and comply with our strict process and product requirements. Apart from financial benefits, close relationships stimulate knowledge sharing, create an environment of innovation, and allow strategic suppliers to integrate more strongly into our value chain. We have an extensive supply base with around 27,000 active suppliers, most of whom are located in Europe, where we have our main production units. Wärtsilä supplier rrequir equirements ements Wärtsilä has defined processes for selecting suppliers, determining their compliance with Wärtsilä supplier requirements, and developing the supply relationship. We offer our suppliers a partnership that strengthens the competitiveness of both parties through open and continuous dialogue. The partnership approach is also applied in our research and development activities, often in collaboration with universities, research institutes, and key suppliers. We have clear expectations towar towardsds our suppliers in terms of compliance with rrelevant elevant legislation, envir environmental onmental aspects, quality, occupational health and safety management, and social performance. In addition to requirements relating to general features and product-specific issues, we have clear expectations towards our suppliers in terms of compliance with relevant legislation, environmental aspects, quality, occupational health and safety management, and social performance. Suppliers must demonstrate their compliance with these requirements in order to receive approved supplier status. These requirements are also included in standard supply contracts. We monitor suppliers’ compliance with these requirements by using performance indicators, and by conducting various types of audits. Assuring supplier compliance Suppliers are assessed and managed through our Supplier Relationship Management tool. For potential new suppliers, the offering, risk level, and compliance with Wärtsilä’s supplier requirements are assessed during the basic assessment phase before the supplier relationship begins. The basic risk assessment takes into account both supplier-level and country-level risks, and is applied also to existing suppliers with assessment renewals at set intervals. The Wärtsilä supply management team analyses the basic assessment submitted by a supplier, and decides whether any further steps in the assessment process are needed. Low-risk suppliers can be approved to do business with Wärtsilä based on the basic assessment. As a default for medium and high-risk suppliers, and especially for potential suppliers and new suppliers for a specific product or service, a detailed assessment is conducted. The purpose of the detailed assessment is to complement the basic risk assessment, assess the supplier’s capabilities and capacity, and to collect further This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 65 information about the supplier. If the supplier’s risk level is determined as acceptable based on the detailed assessment, and if there is a business need, the supplier can be approved. For new and existing suppliers of higher criticality and risk in terms of their management system, offered scope and geographical location, on-site audits are conducted by a qualified lead auditor in co-operation with the Wärtsilä supply management team and other relevant stakeholders. A third-party auditor can be used in specific areas of concern, such as human rights or cyber security. For any deficiency to meet the requirements, corrective actions are agreed on and completed before the audit can be accepted. Wärtsilä assesses and upgrades its supplier management system as necessary on a regular basis. In 2019, we launched the risk-based supplier assessment and management system for existing suppliers, following its launch for new suppliers in 2018. Supplier rating coverage in 2019 As part of the supplier evaluation, Wärtsilä conducts a rating based on Wärtsilä's supplier requirements. This rating is the result of an assessment of various information sources, such as the basic and detailed assessment, dialogue with suppliers, and conducted audits. Based on this rating, the suppliers receive a status: approved, approved with remarks, or banned. The rating is reviewed regularly, as are the results of the conducted audits. By the end of 2019, we rated 712 out of our 1,255 direct global suppliers, which covers 96% of the related spend (target for the year was 96%). The rating coverage of local supplier spend was 69% (target 80%), and of indirect supplier spend 76% (target 70%). In 2019, 40 suppliers received banned status because of their failure to meet Wärtsilä’s requirements on product specific issues, compliance, quality or sustainability. Of these suppliers, nine completed corrective actions that led to an improved rating. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 66 Anchor Sustainability data Anchor Economic Wärtsilä's objective is to achieve profitable growth and create long-term value for our shareholders and society at large. Achieving this depends on our ability to satisfy the expectations of multiple stakeholders. These include providing customers with high-quality and environmentally sound products, solutions and services, building longterm partnerships with suppliers, offering employees competitive compensation and working conditions, as well as contributing to the well-being of the local communities in which Wärtsilä operates. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Economic performance Dir Direct ect economic value generated and distributed (GRI 201-1) MEUR 2019 2018 2017* 2016 2015 Customers Net sales 5 170 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased 3 368 3 327 3 024 2 969 3 136 Value added 1 802 1 847 1 888 1 831 1 893 Distribution of value added Distributed to stakeholders 1 404 1 615 1 651 1 593 1 555 Employees Wages and salaries 1 028 954 1000 939 935 Public sector Taxes and social dues 329 336 331 343 349 Cr Creditors editors Net financial items -47 -40 -47 -53 -34 Shar Shareholder eholder Dividends 284 284 272 256 237 Communities Donations given 1 1 1 2 1 For business development 114 232 237 238 338 *Restated due to IFRS 15 2019 2018 2017* 2016 2015 Customers Net sales (MEUR) 5 170 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 Net sales by market area (MEUR) Europe 1 690 1 485 1 526 1 581 1 566 Asia 1 968 1 867 1 933 1 774 2 051 Americas 1 098 1 245 1 132 1 039 1 006 Africa 222 283 221 313 329 Other 192 294 100 94 78 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased (MEUR) 3 368 3 327 3 024 2 969 3 136 Employees Salaries and wages (MEUR) 1 028 954 1000 939 935 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 67 Salaries and wages by market area (MEUR) Europe 719 643 689 650 632 Asia 145 150 156 153 163 Americas 134 134 130 110 112 Africa 22 20 18 19 21 Other 8 7 7 7 8 Net sales/employee (TEUR) 271 274 275 262 271 Public sector Taxes and social dues (MEUR) 329 336 331 343 349 Taxes and social costs by market area (MEUR) Europe 223 252 236 246 246 Asia 47 38 44 45 50 Americas 43 33 38 47 44 Africa 19 10 12 5 6 Other -2 4 1 0 2 Subsidies received (TEUR) 8 101 7 085 9 891 8 343 9 669 Net financial items (MEUR) -47 -40 -47 -53 -34 Community Donations given, Board of Directors (TEUR) 130 110 110 1365 110 Donations given, Wärtsilä companies (TEUR) 383 627 673 533 511 *Restated due to IFRS 15 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (GRI 201-2) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A is the only subsidiary that falls into the scope of the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) because of the heating plant of the factory. The EU ETS has not had any impact on the company's profitability. Wärtsilä's response to climate change is to develop and provide products, solutions, and services that enable our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. More information about Wärtsilä's solutions for climate change can be found on our website: www.wartsila.com. The potential business risks related to climate change and Wärtsilä's products are presented under the sustainability and climate change chapter under the Risks and risk management section. Defined benefit plan obligations and other rretir etirement ement plans (GRI 201-3) The pension cover is based on the legislation and agreements in force in each country. In Finland, most of the pension obligations are covered by the Employee Pensions system (TyEL). The largest defined benefit plans are used in Switzerland, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds, and their assets are not included in the Group's assets. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practices in each country. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. More information on the Group's pension obligations can be found in the Financial Review, Note 25. Pension obligations. Financial assistance rreceived eceived fr from om gover government nment (GRI 201-4) Subsidies received (TEUR) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 8 101 7 085 9 891 8 343 9 669 The value of the subsidies received in 2019 was EUR 8 101 thousand and they were among others related to R&D projects. The most contributing countries in 2019 were Finland, Norway and Spain. Market pr presence esence Ratios of standar standardd entry level wage by gender compar compared ed to local minimum wage (GRI 202-1) Wärtsilä applies and follows local employment legislation in all countries, and respects local collective labour agreements, which often define the minimum wage levels. In addition, entry level salaries are benchmarked against the market references by function and educational qualification. While laws and regulations determine the minimum level, the actual salaries often exceed these levels. A total compensation package for employees in each country is in line with the corporate rewarding guidelines, local market practices, and labour agreements. The base salary is set to meet market conditions, the demands of the job, and individual competence and performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 68 Pr Proportion oportion of senior management hir hired ed fr from om the local community (GRI 202-2) Wärtsilä always publishes all open vacancies internally, thus ensuring an equal opportunity to apply for Wärtsilä positions. If there is no specific reason, such as a competence transfer need from other countries, to hire expatriates to the position, local residents are hired. This principle also applies to senior management positions. Senior management consists of global business and corporate management and local company management positions. Globally, 90% of Wärtsilä's senior management is locally hired, in other words from the same country as the Wärtsilä subsidiary they work for. Anchor Envir Environment onment The environmental impacts of Wärtsilä's operations largely relate to manufacturing. The main environmental aspects of manufacturing relate to the use of energy and natural resources and thus also to the emissions that are produced by the manufacturing processes. Product development also requires the testing of products and individual components which, alongside manufacturing, loads the environment. However, the positive impacts of product improvements on the environment far outweigh the negative impacts of testing when taking the product's entire lifecycle into account. Materials Materials used by weight or volume (GRI 301-1) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys, and bronze. In 2019, the total material usage was 84 081 tons (103 332). The major material groups were various metals 80%, sand 14%, and various chemicals 2%. Materials 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total material usage (t) 84 081 103 332 73 738 84 913 100 767 Metals (t) 67 123 85 820 55 416 59 898 73 285 Sand (t) 11 957 13 055 13 493 18 399 20 915 Chemicals (t) 1 520 1 422 1 575 1 831* 5 025 Others (t) 3 482 3 035 3 255 3 601 1 542 * A substantial error in reporting classifications was corrected in 2016, meaning that the figure is not directly comparable to earlier years. Recycled input materials used (GRI 301-2) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys and bronze. Recycled material content of these metals vary depending on the material and supplier in question. Recycled material, such as end-of-life coins and bronze propellers, is used for example in the casting of new propellers. Energy Energy consumption within the organisation (GRI 302-1) The total energy consumption (in terajoules, TJ) includes the electricity, heat, and fuels used in Wärtsilä companies in recent years. The fuels are used mainly in engine testing, but also in heating, production, and transportation. In 2019, the fuels were from non-renewable sources. Wärtsilä uses electricity in its manufacturing operations for example in machining components and in service workshops and offices. Both the electrical and the heat energy generated during engine test runs can be utilised. Wärtsilä's aim is to use the electrical energy for its own purposes while also selling part of this electrical energy to local power companies. Due to the nature of engine test runs, the production of electricity and the company's electricity demand are not equivalent; this allows the surplus energy to be sold to local power companies. Heating for factories and offices accounts for most of Wärtsilä's consumption of heat energy. In several factories, the heat generated in engine test runs is used for heating. Some factories and offices are connected to a local district heating network, some have their own heating plant, and some use electricity for heating. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 69 Energy 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total energy consumption (TJ) 1 404 1 538 1 477 1 471 1 539 Electricity consumption (MWh) 124 843 132 572 131 960 139 363 142 819 Purchased electricity (MWh) 119 092 128 878 128 176 132 771 131 501 Generated electricity (MWh) 5 751 3 694 3 784 6 592 11 318 Sold electricity (MWh) 32 812 32 019 28 066 23 620 21 834 Heat consumption (MWh) 31 429 32 937 36 890 33 542 30 161 Light fuel oil (t) 6 089 6 223 4 327 3 918 4 801 Heavy fuel oils (t) 3 343 3 381 3 798 3 647 3 675 Natural gas (t) 8 064 9 783 8 393 8 614 9 750 Other fuels (t) 1 329 1 238 2 811 3 209 2 834 Energy intensity (GRI 302-3) Energy 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total energy consumption (TJ/ Net sales MEUR) 0.272 0.300 0.308 0.313 0.334 Reduction of energy consumption (GRI 302-4) From the start of 2017, Wärtsilä set an energy saving target to reduce energy consumption by at least 7% in terms of absolute consumption (GWh) by 2025, compared to the energy consumption in 2015. By the third year to the target, permanent energy savings of 3.4 GWh have been reached, mainly by reducing electricity or heat consumption. Energy savings 2019 2018 2017 Annual energy savings (GWh) 0.5 2.0 0.9 Cumulative energy savings (GWh) 3.4 2.9 0.9 Water Water withdrawal by sour source ce (GRI 303-1) Wärtsilä's water consumption can be divided into two categories: domestic use and cooling use. Domestic water is used mainly for sanitary purposes and by industrial equipment, such as machine tools and washing machines. Some factories also use domestic water to produce moulds or to fill in their closed-loop cooling system needs. Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs. Total annual water consumption split by the water withdrawal source: Out of cooling water about 99% comes from local surface watercourses where only heat is released along with clean water, and about 1% of cooling water comes from municipal water utilities. Out of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2019, about 94% was seawater for cooling purposes, about 5% was from municipal water supplies, and about 0.4% was directly withdrawn groundwater or rain water. Water 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total water consumption (1 000 m³) 11 268 12 607 12 749 8 444 6 971 Consumption of domestic water (1 000 m³) 648 652 631 613 703 Consumption of cooling water (1 000 m³) 10 621 11 954 12 118 7 831 6 268 Water sour sourcesces significantly af affected fected by withdrawal of water (GRI 303-2) No water source has been found to be significantly affected by any Wärtsilä subsidiary water withdrawal. Per Percentage centage and total volume of W Water ater rrecycled ecycled and rreused eused (GRI 303-3) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. recycled 101 698 m³ of water in 2019 by running it through a water treatment plant and reusing the cleaned water in production processes. The amount corresponds to roughly 28% of Wärtsilä Italia’s annual water consumption and 1% of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2019. No other major water recycling processes are in use in Wärtsilä production facilities globally. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 70 Emissions Gr Greenhouse eenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and intensity (GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4) In addition to direct CO2 emissions, Wärtsilä’s operations generate indirect CO2 emissions. In 2019, the calculated secondary CO2e emissions (location-based method) were 40 911 tons (47 347) (from purchased electricity and heat) and the CO2e emissions from flights totalled 34 700 tons (40 945). There were no biogenic CO2 emissions in 2019. GHG emissions (location-based) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (direct) (SCOPE 1) 56 568 59 949 57 998 57 355 63 441 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 2) 40 911 47 347 56 002 59 697 60 317 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 3) * 164 550 208 330 155 537* 168 571* 39 033 GHG emissions intensity (all) 50.8 61.5 56.1 60.8 35.3 * Includes indirect emissions from materials, energy, and flights from 2016 onward. Pre-2016 figures only include emissions from flights. GHG emissions (market-based) 2019 2018 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (direct) (SCOPE 1) 56 568 59 949 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 2) 53 453 63 768 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 3) 160 960 204 065 GHG emissions intensity (all) 52.5 63.9 Reduction of grgreenhouse eenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (GRI 305-5) Wärtsilä has taken several measures to reduce its indirect CO2 emissions. The energy efficiency commitment aims to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In addition, Wärtsilä’s focus lies on reducing travelling by implementing a strict travel policy and by using virtual meeting concepts: Skype / Teams instant messaging, which enables live chats between two people or more, Skype / Teams meetings allowing multi-person meetings from personal computers, in which presentation material can be shared, and the videoconferencing system. In Wärtsilä, Skype / Teams and videoconferences are in everyday use. Approximately 1 700 Skype / Teams conferences are arranged daily. Traditional video conference system exists in 160 rooms in 49 countries, and as a new expanding solution there are 50 Skype / Teams rooms in a few countries. We also managed to reduce emissions from business flights by 15%, or 6 245 tons CO2e in 2019 from the previous year. Nitr Nitrogen ogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions (GRI 305-7) Air emissions are mainly caused by test runs and the painting of completed engines or other Wärtsilä products. Test run emissions consist of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SOx), carbon dioxides (CO2) and particles, as well as small amounts of other emission components. The painting of engines and other Wärtsilä products generates VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds). Engine emissions are reduced through research and development, as well as product development and testing. These measures also generate emissions, but their results reduce the future emissions of manufactured engines. Emissions 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (t) 544 545 534 500 553 Emissions of sulphur oxides (t) 51 55 62 59 63 Emissions of total hydrocarbons (t) 139 164 131 116 145 Particulates (t) 7 7 8 9 9 Emissions of VOC (t) 37 45 36 30 40 The primary sources of manufacturing noise are the engine test runs and the ventilation machinery on factory roofs. This noise is mostly low frequency and is therefore not easily detected by the human ear. Wärtsilä has specifically addressed the issue of noise protection using technical means and has succeeded in lowering noise levels considerably. However, noise abatement is a continuous need and requires regular monitoring. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 71 Ef Effluents fluents and waste Water discharge by quality and destination (GRI 306-1) Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs, in which case the cooling water system is kept separate so that only heat is released into the natural water system. Wastewater is sewered and piped to the local wastewater treatment plant or treated on site before being discharged. If the effluent is not suitable for discharge, it is taken away for appropriate processing, for example to a special treatment plant for hazardous wastes. Several Wärtsilä subsidiaries have environmental permits allowing clean or properly treated water discharge into natural water bodies. Most of this discharge is clean cooling water released back into local surface watercourse, where only heat is released. In 2019, the total amount of water discharge was 11 196 069 m³. Municipal Re-used by 2019 water discharge sewer Sea River Ground other entity Amount (m³) 201 313 10 620 945 361 529 10 242 2 040 % of total water discharge 1.8 94.9 3.2 0.1 0.0 Waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) Manufacturing activities cause various wastes. These are divided into two main categories: hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Hazardous wastes include cutting fluids, various types of waste oil, paints and solvents, oily wastes, solid wastes, etc. Non-hazardous wastes include scrap metal, metal swarf, waste plastics, waste wood, domestic waste, cardboard, and paper waste. All Wärtsilä companies sort their waste according to local municipal regulations. Generally speaking, the main sorting categories are waste to be incinerated, waste for landfills, and waste for recycling. Waste management in Wärtsilä has four aims, listed in their order of priority: • to reduce the amount of waste generated in processes • to use waste as a material • to use waste as energy • to dispose of waste in an environmentally sound way Waste 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total waste (t) 30 287 36 025 32 580 50 020 52 037 Non-hazardous waste (t) 26 439 31 240 28 928 42 663 44 864 Hazardous waste (t) 3 847 4 785 3 651 7 357 7 173 Waste for landfills (t) 2 022 4 051 3 198 9 962 8 593 Waste for recycling (t) 22 133 24 791 23 647 30 695 34 074 Waste for incineration (t) 2 215 2 305 1 990 1 889 2 197 Waste for composting (t) 69 92 95 Hazardous waste for landfills (t) 318 579 548 964 2 586 Hazardous waste for recycling (t) 2 261 3 063 2 113 5 470 3 502 Hazardous waste for incineration (t) 1 268 1143 990 923 1 084 Pr Products oducts and services Extent of impact mitigation of envirenvironmental onmental impacts of prproducts oducts and services Environmental products and services are the most important means for Wärtsilä to mitigate the environmental impacts. Wärtsilä has a key role in providing environmentally sound solutions and services that enable our customers to develop their business in a sustainable way. The value of sustainable innovation is delivered across a wide range of environmentally sound products and solutions, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, effluent and ballast water treatment, as well as to products and solutions that are flexible, efficient, reliable, safe, cost-efficient to operate, and that have a minimal environmental footprint throughout their lifecycles. Expenditur Expenditures es Total envir environmental onmental pr protection otection expenditur expenditures es and investments Concerning Wärtsilä’s operations, we have defined expenditures as environmental expenditures if they are related to soil, water and air pollution control, waste management, environmental management, or noise control. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 72 A substantial proportion of the company's investments in product development are targeted at securing environmental compliancy providing shortand long-term benefits for the whole value chain and ultimately for the environment. Expenditures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 R&D costs (MEUR) 164 165 141 131 132 Environmental costs Environmental capital expenditures (MEUR) 1.0 0.6 4.0 0.7 0.5 Environmental operating expenditures (MEUR) 3.8 4.0 3.8 4.0 4.6 Anchor Social Wärtsilä's aim is to provide the best value and service to its customers by continuously developing its competences and way of working. The strategic goal of Wärtsilä's social responsibility and people strategy is to bring the business strategy alive by developing Wärtsilä's people, organisation, competences and ways of working to meet the evolving business needs. The aim is to have energetic, competent, and motivated personnel with exciting and meaningful jobs and career opportunities led by excellent leaders. Good performance is recognised and diversity respected. By applying high standards of occupational health and safety, Wärtsilä strives to offer a hazard-free workplace to its employees, contractors, and others working in different parts of the corporation. Good corporate citizenship is accomplished through active co-operation, open communication, and good relationships with stakeholders. Wärtsilä's operations and relations with its stakeholders are based on the company's Code of Conduct, with which each Wärtsilä company and individual is required to comply. Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain in 2019 (GRI 102-10) In October 2018, Wärtsilä was reorganised into two business areas, Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business, covering both new sales and services for the respective markets. The new organisational structure has been operational as of 1 January 2019. This has been one of the biggest organisational changes in Wärtsilä’s history, with altogether more than 13000 people changing places, and a major change management, restructuring and recruitment effort being implemented. Wärtsilä’s Group-wide programme to realign its operations and resources with the aim of ensuring future profitability and competitiveness, has been ongoing throughout 2019. The planned actions include an increased focus on targeted sales activities, developing the agreements-based and “as-a-service” business, reviewing the cost structure, and optimising the business portfolio. The programme is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1 200 employees globally by the end of 2020. In February, Wärtsilä strengthened its underwater-related servicing capabilities with the opening of a new underwater repair, refurbishment, and maintenance facility in Fujairah, United Arab Emirates. In May, Wärtsilä announced the acquisition of Ships Electronic Services Ltd (“SES”), a UK based company specialising in navigation and communication electronics, as well as installation, maintenance, and repair services, mainly for commercial and leisure vessels. The company employed a staff of 47. In September, Wärtsilä’s Energy Business announced a plan to re-organise and re-align its organisation, aiming for increased customer centricity and an improved ability to capture market opportunities through reduced organisational complexity, faster decision making, and greater empowerment of its people. Also in September, it was decided to dissolve WHEC, the Wärtsilä-Hyundai Engine Company joint venture in Korea, by mutual agreement with Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI). WHEC manufactured 4-stroke W50DF engines for LNG carriers and other marine applications for the Asian markets, and employed 20 people at the end of 2019. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation activities have progressed rapidly during recent years. In September, Wärtsilä integrated its teams within the central digital organisation into various business and corporate functions, based on where they could best create value to our customers and Wärtsilä as a whole. At the same time, their participation in operations and projects is continuing in a cost-efficient manner. In December, Wärtsilä announced the divestment of Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH (ELAC Nautik). ELAC Nautik became part of Wärtsilä as a result of the acquisition of L-3 Communications MSI in 2015. Its main market focus is on hydroacoustic products, including This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 73 sonars, underwater communication systems and echo systems for small and medium sized military submarines. ELAC Nautik employs approximately 120 people. Employment Information on employees and other workers in 2019 (GRI 102-8, GRI 401-1) In addition to direct employment, Wärtsilä employed also indirectly an external workforce totalling 6 370 man-years in subcontracting at its factories and units. The units located in Finland had a total personnel of 3 776 employees. All in all, 1 890 employees left and 4 067 joined Wärtsilä globally during 2019 for different reasons. Wärtsilä had 18 795 employees at the end of 2019. Personnel 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees at the end of the year 18 795 19 293 18 065 18 011 18 856 Personnel by business Services * 11 051 10 624 10 567 10 592 Marine Solutions 12 526 6 267 5 845 6 074 6 847 Energy Solutions 4 978 1 171 1 038 903 959 Other 1291 805 559 467 459 Personnel by market area Europe 11 618 11 693 10 463 10 399 10 893 Asia 4 341 4 726 4 890 4 992 5 297 Americas 2 016 2 074 1 960 1 919 1 917 Other 820 801 753 701 748 Average age of employees 41.6 41.4 41.5 41.0 41.0 Permanent employees (%) 93 93 92 89 89 Temporary employees (%) 7 7 8 11 11 Full-time employees (%) 98 98 98 98 98 Part-time employees (%) 2 2 2 2 2 Employee turnover (resigned) (%) 6.7 5.7 5.3 5.3 5.2 Net employment creation -571 923 -213 -840 -755 * Services ceased to exist as a separate business area at the end of 2018 Number of employees by employment contract and gender in 2019 Permanent Temporary Total 17 401 1 394 Male 14 533 1 111 Female 2 868 283 Number of employees by employment contract and region in 2019 Permanent Temporary Europe 11 155 462 Asia 3 631 716 America 1 983 30 Other 632 186 Permanent employees by employment contract type and gender in 2019 Full-time Part-time Total 17 035 366 Male 14 227 306 Female 2 808 60 New employee hires in 2019 Employees Rate (%) Total 4 067 21.6 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 74 Gender Male 3 159 20.2 Female 908 28.8 Age group < 30 years 1 684 65.5 30–50 2 071 17.7 > 50 years 313 7.0 Market area Europe 2 406 20.7 Asia 881 20.3 Americas 494 24.6 Other 286 35.0 Employee turnover (resigned) in 2019 Employees Rate (%) Total 1 162 6.7 Gender Male 914 6.3 Female 248 8.6 Age group < 30 years 187 9.0 30–50 774 7.1 > 50 years 201 4.6 Market area Europe 699 6.3 Asia 291 8.0 Americas 118 5.9 Other 54 8.5 Benefits pr provided ovided to full-time employees that araree not pr provided ovided to temporary or part-time employees (GRI 401-2) In general, temporary and part time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to the number of months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Labour / management rrelations elations Minimum notice periods rregaregarding ding operational changes (GRI 402-1) Wärtsilä way of working concerning minimum notice periods is described in the Policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices. Occupational health and safety Workers rrepr epresentation esentation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees (GRI 403-1) Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees consisting of representatives from both management and personnel. Altogether 85% of Wärtsilä companies have an occupational health and safety committee covering in total 89% of Wärtsilä’s employees. Type of injury and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-r work-related elated fatalities (GRI 403-2) The lost time injury frequency for 2019 was 2.25, which was 10% lower than in the previous year. Wärtsilä regrets to report a contractor fatality at a shipyard in Vietnam. Contractor was removing a temporary steel structure connected to the hull of a vessel. During this removal operation, the structure suddenly fell down and sank to the bottom of the sea. One of the contractor employees was working on the top of this structure when the accident happened, and he did not manage to get out losing his life. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 75 Injuries 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total number of injuries, employees 397 398 446 439 461 Number of lost time injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence employees, total 85 90 88 95 104 Europe 58 62 60 69 72 Asia 16 14 9 17 15 Americas 10 13 16 6 16 Africa 1 1 3 3 1 Number of lost time injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence contractors, total 20 35 Europe 11 19 Asia 4 6 Americas 5 10 Africa 0 0 Lost time injuries / million working hours Employees 2.25 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.8 Contractors 1.8 3.1 Absence rate, employees Absence due to illness (% of total working hours) 2.1 2.2 2.0 2.2 1.9 Absence due to lost time injury (% of total working hours) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Absence due to occupational diseases (% of total working hours) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fatalities Number of fatalities, total 1 1 1 1 1 Employees 0 1 0 0 1 Contractors 1 0 1 1 0 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases rrelated elated to their occupation (GRI 403-3) Wärtsilä employees constantly work close to running engines while conducting overhaul or testing activities, which exposes them to high levels of noise. Wärtsilä has occupational safety and health programmes in place to prevent hearing loss, including providing hearing protectors to those employees at risk of hearing loss or impairment. In 2019, there were in total 10 cases of occupational disease diagnosed, which is equivalent to 0.27 cases / million worked hours. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee (GRI 404-1) Wärtsilä's average number of training days in 2019 for male employees was 2.11 and for female employees 1.85. Training days/employee 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 All employees 2.1 2.2 2.2 3.0 3.0 Managers and superiors 2.1 2.9 3.5 3.7 3.5 White-collar employees 1.9 2.1 3.0 2.9 2.9 Blue-collar employees 2.3 2.1 2.0 3.0 3.1 Pr Programs ograms for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance prprograms ograms (GRI 404-2) Wärtsilä programmes for skills management is described in the People Management section. Wärtsilä offers a wide variety of internal training and learning opportunities for its employees, covering more than 20 training categories. These include topics such as engine technology, health and safety, language and culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 76 Percentage Per centage of employees rreceiving egular performance and car eceiving rregular career eer development rreviews eviews (GRI 404-3) Development discussions held annually 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Coverage % 91 96 96 96 92 Diversity and Equal opportunity Diversity of gover governance nance bodies and employees (GRI 405-1) A diverse workforce generates higher profits, better complex problem-solving skills, and access to a larger talent pool. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative began in 2012 and is aimed at driving an inclusive corporate culture at all levels to meet both global and local requirements. By investing in diversity and supporting employees of varied gender, age, personality, and educational background, Wärtsilä becomes an even more attractive employer and a more valued business partner for its customers. Gender diversity 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Male/female ratio (%) 83/17 83/17 84/16 84/16 85/15 Executive positions globally: male/female ratio (%) 83/17 87/13 89/11 89/11 89/11 Regional diversity Number of nationalities 140 137 136 134 131 Number of employees per age group in 2019 Employees Ratio (%) < 30 years 2 574 14 30–50 11 736 62 > 50 years 4 486 24 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per age group in 2019 BoM (%) BoD (%) < 30 years 0 0 30–50 29 13 > 50 years 71 88 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per gender in 2019 BoM (%) BoD (%) Female 14 25 Male 86 75 Customer satisfaction Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (GRI 102-43) Wärtsilä always puts the needs of our customers first. We show this by carefully listening and acting upon our customers’ feedback, at both operative and management levels. Wärtsilä places great emphasis on earning our customers’ long-term trust by keeping its promises. While challenges may arise at any time in this business, relationships are strengthened by focusing on our customers. We observe our customers’ perception of loyalty and satisfaction by applying a Net Promoter Score methodology, NPS. The results are monitored on a monthly basis and last three years shows considerable improvements. Our Customers’ feedback on project deliveries and the operation of their installations, are welcomed. To know what works and where to improve, as well as, understanding our customers’ operational environments, is critical in developing the company’s products and services. To ensure our customers’ needs and expectations are met, Wärtsilä collects feedback during different events, activities, and interactions with our customers and acts upon that feedback. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 77 Customer loyalty 2019 2018 2017 NET Promoter Score, NPS 59 53 45 Sample 2 787 3 356 4 875 Net promoter score scale is from -100 to 100. Anchor Compliance Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. This requires all employees to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty. Wärtsilä is committed to ensuring compliance with the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct in all of its business operations globally and has, therefore, established a Group policy for reporting misconduct incidents and suspected Code of Conduct violations. Wärtsilä employees are encouraged to voice their concerns as to potential violations of the Code and its underlying policies and instructions. The reported misconduct cases are investigated either locally or centrally, as appropriate. The primary way for reporting suspected misconduct incidents is via the line management. However, employees also have alternative reporting routes, including an externally hosted whistleblowing channel, reporting directly to the compliance function, or by informing legal affairs. Should a suspected violation involve the top management of Wärtsilä Corporation, or where the suspected case is believed to be significant, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation may be contacted directly. An employee who reports a potential Code of Conduct violation in good faith shall suffer no harassment, retaliation, or adverse employment consequences. Finally, Wärtsilä employees are instructed to seek advice on ethical and lawful behaviour and on matters of integrity from Wärtsilä legal counsels or from the compliance function. Envir Environmental onmental compliance Anchor Wärtsilä companies comply with all local environmental legislation. The operations of Wärtsilä's manufacturing companies require a valid environmental permit, the terms of which are generally met. Incidents of non-compliance are described in the following chapters. Significant spills (GRI 306-3) and complaints The number of disturbances, complaints, and incidents of non-compliance are presented in the table below. Reported disturbances typically cover incidents in which the Wärtsilä company concerned has been obliged to report the disturbance to the authorities. The main environmental disturbances that occurred in Wärtsilä's business locations in 2019 were four minor fuel or oily water spills. These disturbances were investigated and the appropriate corrective actions to minimise the impact on the environment were taken in each case. Non-compliance with envir environmental onmental laws and rregulations egulations (GRI 307-1) Wärtsilä Voyage Limited was charged total fines of EUR 6 052 by the company that provides water supply and sanitation services to St. Petersburg for recurrent surpassing of limits for chemical oxygen consumption and biological oxygen consumption in the company’s environmental permit for sewer discharge. Corrective actions will be carried out in the beginning of 2020. Disturbances, complaints, and non-compliances 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Environmental Disturbances 4 5 6 12 3 Non-compliances 1 3 1 0 3 Complaints 0 1 1 2 2 Social This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 78 Non-compliances 2 2 1 4 4 Fines of non-compliance cases (EUR) 38 327 25 962 22 575 37 860 30 111 Incidents of discrimination and corr corrective ective actions taken, and non-compliance with laws and rregulations egulations in the social and economic ar area ea (GRI 406-1, GRI 419-1) Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent approximately 140 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and works, therefore, to ensure that there is freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Wärtsilä is unaware of any cases of human rights being breached, discrimination, infringements of rights at work, or the use of forced or child labour. During the reporting period the following misconducts were realised: Wartsila-ENPA SA, Turkey, was found by a labour court to have terminated an employee’s employment on insufficient grounds, resulting in the company compensating EUR 6 675 to the ex-employee. Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was charged a penalty fee of EUR 25 600 for not fulfilling its legal obligation to hire disabled persons as a minimum 5% of the company's total employees. The company has mainly hired blue-collar employees, which limits the suitable job offerings to disabled persons. There are also the following ongoing, disputed non-compliance cases: Wartsila India Ltd. has eight ongoing judicial proceedings, out of which six pertain to ex-employees' perceived improper labour and dismissal practices; and two pertain to dispute on applicability of certain provisions of employment legislations. It typically takes several years in India for these types of disputes to be concluded, and thus some of the proceedings have been ongoing already since 2016. Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. was issued a notice of violation by the Brazilian Ministry of Labour for not fulfilling its legal obligation to hire disabled persons as a minimum 3% of the company's total workforce. The company has filed an appeal against the resulting fine, process which is ongoing. The company has specifically extended every vacancy advertisement to disabled people, whenever possible. Non-compliance cases pr presented esented in pr previous evious rreports eports Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was not able to fulfill its legal obligation to hire the legal minimum amount of disabled persons. Wärtsilä North America, Inc.'s previoulsy reported case of customer receiving noise complaints related to a power plant in Marquette, Michigan, has not led to any new grievances in 2019. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and pr procedur ocedures, es, and Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (GRI 205-2, 205-3) During the review period, no instances of corruption or bribery were identified. Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption Policy is provided to sales intermediaries such as agents. Wärtsilä has arranged specifically tailored trainings to agents and other sales intermediaries. Wärtsilä’s Anti-Corruption Policy is available for suppliers and any person or organisation upon request. Political contributions (GRI 415-1) During 2019, Wärtsilä did not make any contributions to political parties. Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior behavior,, anti-trust, and monopoly practices (GRI 206-1) Wärtsilä arranged, as it has earlier, a number of competition law training seminars in 2019 for relevant personnel in order to further promote their knowledge of competition laws, and thus ascertain full compliance with such laws. Incidents of non-compliance concer concerning ning health and safety impacts of pr products oducts and services, pr product oduct and service information, marketing communications and customer privacy and data (GRI 416-2, GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3, GRI 418-1, GRI 419-1) During the review period, no instances of non-compliance related to product health and safety or information liability, or customer privacy were identified. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 79 Anchor UN Sustainable Development Goals and W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Sustainability forms the core of Wärtsilä’s business operations, products and solutions. Several of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which entered into force in 2016, deal with issues to which Wärtsilä contributes in a positive way. We, together with our stakeholders, are committed to developing solutions to solve the societal challenges laid out in the SDGs, while also generating new business opportunities. In particular, we play a vital role in delivering innovative clean energy and smart marine technologies. We have reviewed all the SDGs and their targets, and have identified priority targets for our company. These are most notably SDG7 Affordable and clean energy, SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, and SDG9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Respecting our people and the envir environment onment Wärtsilä’s efforts to promote health, safety, and well-being covers employees, suppliers, customers and local communities. We support and respect the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are also a signatory of the UN Global Compact, and are thereby committed to its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Our high standards in environmental, health and safety (EHS) matters are aimed at zero injuries among employees and contractors, and our products and solutions are designed to be reliable and safe to use. Wärtsilä offers solutions with zero or very low levels of emissions, and which comply to even the strictest local emission regulations, thus contributing positively to air quality while minimising the impact on people's health. We are also committed to continuous improvement in our environmental and social performance to avoid causing harm to the communities close to our operations. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization, and upholds the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We promote gender equality and are committed to including women in all aspects of our business. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative has been in place since 2012, fostering an inclusive corporate culture at all levels. We contribute to sustainable economic growth by promoting global corporate citizenship, an inclusive corporate culture, and local employment. Continuous learning and self-development are encouraged by offering a wide range of competence development options at all levels of the organisation. More information in sections: Environmental management Guiding principles Occupational health and safety People management Product design principles Responsible business conduct Sustainability data This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 80 Enabling a 100% rrenewable enewable energy futur futuree Wärtsilä plays an important role in helping to meet the world’s increasing demand for sustainable energy. Our flexible energy solutions enable the transition towards a 100% renewable energy future by providing technologies, services, and solutions for sustainable, reliable, and affordable power systems. Wärtsilä’s offering comprises flexible power plants, energy storage and management systems, as well as lifecycle services. These enable increased energy efficiency, guaranteed performance, as well as fuel and operational flexibility. Our solutions provide the needed backup for existing high renewable content power systems, or for those systems to be later shifted from baseload or intermittent operations to backup mode, as the energy transition proceeds. Our offering of energy storage, together with our advanced software for energy management, enable the transition to a sustainable, reliable, and affordable low carbon power system. In markets where this power transition is still to come, Wärtsilä’s solutions provide efficient, reliable, and flexible baseload solutions, which can be shifted to back up renewable power in the future. We engage actively in an open dialogue with various stakeholders to provide expertise and support for enhancing clean energy technology and research on a global scale. In 2019, we signed new partnership agreements with Aalto University and Lappeenranta-Lahti University of Technology (LUT) in Finland, aiming at new research schemes on energy systems and strategic power system modelling for 100% renewable energy systems. Additionally, among others, we provided seed funding to Soletair Power Oy, a Finland based start-up company operating in the field of Power-to-X, and signed a cooperation agreement with Q Power Oy, a Finnish pioneer in biomethanisation, to accelerate the development and commercialisation of renewable fuels. More information in sections: Wärtsilä Energy Business Innovating for Sustainability Academia offers rich ground for joint research into sustainable solutions The power of many Manufacturing and R&D Stakeholder relations Enhancing a Smart and Low-Carbon Marine Ecosystem Wärtsilä aims to connect smart vessels with smart ports to lead the shipping industry towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem with greater efficiency, negligible climate impact, and the highest levels of safety. We are committed to supporting our customers in their decarbonisation efforts, and to collaborating with industry stakeholders, such as regulators, energy companies, and classification societies, to bring decarbonisation to reality. Our offering includes solutions for optimising and improving the efficiency of individual vessels, fleets, or entire value chains, reducing emissions to air, and for protecting the marine environment. Digitalisation sets new standards for the industry and provides opportunities for lifecycle efficiency improvements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 81 In 2019, we launched several new innovations and announced partnerships to support decarbonisation. These partnerships included the Zero Emission Energy Distribution at Sea (ZEEDS) initiative and the Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition to advance zero emissions shipping. Moreover, Wärtsilä and Singapore-based PSA Marine agreed to collaborate in the co-creation of smart technologies for the marine sector, and to integrate the deep capabilities developed in the IntelliTug project with new configurations and concepts of hybrid, electric, and other clean energy sources. More information in other sections: Wärtsilä Marine Business Innovating for Sustainability An ultra-low emission maritime future is on the horizon IntelliTug Mapping the route towards zero-emission shipping Stakeholder relations Conducting our business rresponsibly esponsibly Wärtsilä is committed to sustainability and responsible business in its purpose statement and strategy. Our values and Code of Conduct define common rules for all employees and provide guidance on our approach to responsible business practices. The implementation of our Code of Conduct and main policies on responsible business conduct include Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct discussion modules, the signing of an individual Code of Conduct Undertaking, elearning training, and the inclusion of the Code of Conduct topics into the annual development discussions covering all employees. In addition, Wärtsilä has an externally hosted whistle blower channel for all employees to report concerns related to potential misconducts that contravene the Code of Conduct or the company’s policies. In 2019, we launched a new Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct Discussion Session module for all employees. The discussions were arranged as team discussions and led by line managers, with more than 13,000 employees (approximately 70% of all employees) completing the session in 2019. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct and supporting policies expressly prohibit the company, its employees, and suppliers from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe, and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. We are aware that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where we operate. Therefore, full compliance with a stringent anti-corruption regime is required of all employees. An extensive training programme is in place for personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation, as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. We aim to contribute towards the well-being of the local communities in which we are present. The means for this include, for example, creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and supporting local development. More information in other sections: Guiding principles Internal control Responsible business conduct Risks and risk management Sustainability at Wärtsilä Sustainability data – compliance This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 82 Anchor Report pr profile ofile Data collection The data on the products' environmental performance is based on measured test results. Performance data on the environmental and social aspects of sustainability has been collected from the Wärtsilä companies using a detailed questionnaire. Economic performance data is based mainly on audited financial accounts. The sustainability data is collected and reported according to Wärtsilä's specific internal reporting guidelines that include all the definitions and instructions necessary for this purpose. Environmental expenditure and investments are reported applying the Eurostat instructions. Each company has a nominated individual responsible for collection and consolidation of the data, and for its quality and reliability. The management of each company approves the data before it is consolidated at the Group level. The companies report their sustainability data using Wärtsilä's sustainability reporting system. The reported data is checked at both local and Group levels before its consolidation. The content of this Sustainability Report was reviewed and approved by Wärtsilä's Board of Management. Report assurance DNV GL Business Assurance Finland Oy Ab (DNV GL) has independently assessed the report against GRI Standards (2016). As part of the assurance process, DNV GL assesses local level data management and processes, evaluates the relevance and reliability of the data reported to headquarters, and assesses whether the reporting guidelines of Wärtsilä are well understood and applied. This is achieved through conducting site visits and videoconferencing. Site visit was carried out in Vaasa, Finland. Wärtsilä Voyage, Wärtsilä Indonesia, Wärtsilä North America, Wärtsilä Iberica and Wärtsilä Japan were assessed through videoconferencing. Additional sour sources ces of information Wärtsilä has prpreviously eviously published the following rreports: eports: Wärtsilä Environmental Report 2000 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2002 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2004 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2005 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2006 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2007 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2008 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2009 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2010 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2011 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2012 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2013 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2014 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2015 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2016 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2017 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2018 These reports and their sustainability data are available on Wärtsilä's website: https://www.wartsila.com/ sustainability/our-approach/sustainability-reports Sustainability Report Pr Project oject TTeam eam Marko V Vainikka ainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability, marko.vainikka@wartsila.com Harri Mäkelä Manager, Sustainability Alina Pathan Manager, Corporate Relations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 83 Anchor Materiality assessment Identified material topics and boundaries Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements (GRI 102-45) The entities included in Wärtsilä’s Consolidated Financial Statements are listed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 36. Subsidiaries. All the Group companies are included in Wärtsilä’s Sustainability reporting. The report covers Wärtsilä's businesses. At the company level, the report includes the parent company and its subsidiaries as well as its manufacturing, service and sales units. The report excludes Wärtsilä's associated companies, joint ventures, and supply chain companies. Pr Process ocess for defining rreport eport content and aspect boundaries (GRI 10246, 102-54) Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting 2019 is prepared according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards (2016) and the Reporting Principles for Defining report content.This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. This means that our reporting covers all the General Disclosures of the GRI Standards framework and all the sustainability topics we have identified as material in our operations. In 2017, Wärtsilä updated the assessment of material sustainability topics. The process included an assessment of economic, environmental, and social topics from the stakeholders’ point of view and as an impact to Wärtsilä’s business. Stakeholder views were collected through a questionnaire answered by 88 key stakeholder contacts in various Wärtsilä units and functions worldwide. The aim of the stakeholder questionnaire was to evaluate how important different sustainability topics are for assessments and decision-making of Wärtsilä’s stakeholders. Sustainability topics for the stakeholder evaluation were identified based on Wärtsilä’s previous experience on material sustainability topics, industry peer review, and analysis of significant economic, environmental and social impacts in Wärtsilä’s value chain. The focus on stakeholder assessment was in investors and financiers, major customers, personnel, local societies, and media. The significance of identified topics was then analysed as a current or potential business impact on Wärtsilä. The business implications of identified sustainability topics were evaluated based on direct financial impacts as well as risks and opportunities. In addition the level of internal policies or practices were used as an indication of potential business impact. As a result of the materiality assessment, the following GRI topics were identified as material for Wärtsilä: • Emissions • Environmental Compliance • Economic Performance • Training and education • Occupational health and safety • In addition to the identified material aspects Wärtsilä discloses sustainability data on several other areas, because they are frequently asked by Wärtsilä’s stakeholders or they are considered important on the basis of continuity of sustainability reporting. Topic boundaries for the identified material topics were then evaluated in reflection to the sustainability context that is based on the significance of their economic, environmental, and social impacts in our value chain. A more detailed description of the topic boundaries and completeness of data collection for the identified material topics can be found in the GRI 103-1-b and GRI 103-1-c, Topic boundary within the organisation and Topic boundary outside the organisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 84 Material topics (GRI 102-47) From a sustainability impact point of view, product related environmental issues are the most significant for Wärtsilä. The use of Wärtsilä’s products has an environmental impact both locally and globally. Other dimensions of sustainability mainly have a local impact. Sustainability impact Local Global Economic Envir Environmental onmental • Product related • Operational Social The following GRI topics have been identified as material for Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting: Category Topics Identified material topic Other topics Excluded for W Wärtsilä, ärtsilä, rreported eported in included in fr from om W Wärtsilä ärtsilä accor accordance dance with GRI Wärtsilä Sustainability Standar Standards ds Sustainability Reporting Reporting Economic Economic performance Market presence Indirect economic impacts Procurement practices Anti-corruption Anticompetitive behaviour Envir Environmental onmental Materials Energy This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 85 Water Biodiversity Emissions Effluents and waste Environmental Compliance Supplier Environmental assessment Social Employment Labour/ management relations Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Nondiscrimination Freedom of association Child Labour Forced or compulsory labour Security practices Rights of indigenous people This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 86 Human rights assessment Local communities Supplier social assessment Public policy Customer health and safety Marketing and labelling Customer privacy Socioeconomic compliance Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting provides a full disclosure of the management approach, relevant general disclosures and material topic-specific disclosures defined by the GRI Standards. Topic boundary within the organisation (103-1-b and 103-1-c) The topic boundary for the material topics is all Wärtsilä companies. The economic performance data covers all Wärtsilä companies. The data on environmental and social performance covers all Wärtsilä companies except the following: • LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. • Ships Electronic Services Ltd. • Burriel Navarro S.L. These companies will be included in Wärtsilä's sustainable development reporting in the forthcoming years. Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting is an integrated part of its annual reporting, and therefore Wärtsilä publishes its sustainability data annually. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 87 Coverage of operational data Operational data, % of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä companies 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 96 97 86 93 83 Social 100 100 100 100 100 Operational data, % of personnel 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 99 93 96 98 91 Social 100 100 100 100 100 Operational data, % of pr product oduct manufacturing 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 100 100 100 100 95 Social 100 100 100 100 100 Topic boundary outside the organisation (GRI 103-1-c) Wärtsilä’s Sustainability Report does not cover performance data collected outside the Group companies. Explanation of the efeffect provided e-statements of information pr fect of any rre-statements ovided in earlier rreports eports (GRI 102-48) There are no major restatements of information provided in previous reports. Significant changes fr from om pr previous evious rreporting eporting periods (GRI 102-49) There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the reporting topic boundaries. Historical data covers all entities that were part of the Group at the end of each reporting period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 88 Anchor Reporting principles Economic performance data The economic performance data is based on audited financial accounting and covers all Wärtsilä subsidiaries unless otherwise stated. Donations: The data of this indicator included 15 major Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2019. Subsidies: The data of this indicator included all Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2019. The social costs for employees contribute to the funding of pensions, unemployment, and other social benefits that provide security and improve the quality of life for the company's employees and their families. Senior management includes all employees with the highest job grade levels 12-16. At the end of 2019 this covered 103 employees. Envir Environmental onmental performance data Materials include all the major material flows used in the production processes globally. The most material consuming product categories include engines, propellers, and propulsion systems. Total energy consumption includes both direct and indirect energy usage. The direct energy usage includes the fuels used by Wärtsilä subsidiaries. Lower heating values (LHV) are used to calculate the energy consumption of fuels in joules. LHVs are based on information supplied by vendors or results of fuel analysis for engine testing and R&D purposes, and for other fuel consumption the source is the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect energy usage includes the purchased electricity and heat. Since the efficiency of purchased electricity and heat generation is not known, the energy conversion is done directly from the purchased values. Fuel consumption data is based on either invoices or measured values. Heat and electricity data is based on either invoices or measured values. Energy intensity describes the ratio of total internal energy consumption divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (TJ/MEUR). GHG emissions intensity describes the ratio of total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (kgCO2e/EUR). Reduction of GHG emissions data is collected on a site level, based on permanent GHG emissions reduction measures, and either calculated or estimated (Scope 1 and 2). Reduction of energy consumption data is collected on a site level, based on permanent energy saving actions, and either calculated or estimated. Water consumption: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water usage might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. Recycled water: The reported amount is the total measured recycled water used in Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Their water treatment plant provides reusable water for manufacturing processes. Water discharge: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water discharge might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 89 Emissions: The reported figures are mainly based on measured values, based on which specific emission factors are determined. The specific emission factors are determined for various fuels and engine types. The emissions of the heating boilers are either measured or calculated. For electricity consumption the indirect CO2 emissions (Location-based scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from IEA (International Energy Agency), and the indirect CO2 emissions (Market-based scope 2) are calculated by using the residual mix emission factors where available (for Europe and USA), and for other countries the IEA emission factors. For district heating the indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of energy consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from DEFRA. The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of material consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from thinkstep’s GaBi database. The CO2 emissions of air travel (Scope 3) are based on calculations by Wärtsilä's travel agency and are based on DEFRA defined factors. The other-than-GHG emissions of vehicles are calculated by using the VTT (Technical Research Centre of Finland) Lipasto database emission factors. GWP factor used for converting methane emissions to CO2-equivalent is 25. Only CO2 and methane are considered for the CO2 emissions. Waste: Information on waste disposal methods normally comes from the waste disposal contractor. Envir Environmental onmental disturbances: As such are considered major incidents, which generally require communication to local authorities. Social performance data Total number of injuries: The reported figures include all types of reported work-related injuries, including first-aid cases, as well as commuting injuries and possible fatalities. Lost time injuries: The reported figures include all reported work-related injuries resulting in absence from work of at least one scheduled work day, lost day counting from the first day after the injury. LTI fr frequency equency is expressed as reported lost time injuries and possible fatalities per million working hours. The working hours are actual paid working hours. The lost time injury rate does not include commuting injuries. Net employment cr creation eation is calculated by deducting the number of permanent employees having left the company for any reason from the amount of newly hired permanent employees during the reporting period. Employee tur turnover nover is calculated from permanent employees. The number of resigned permanent employees is divided by the number of permanent employees at the end of the reporting period. Employees and other workfor workforce: ce: The data on Wärtsilä employees is mainly from the global SAP HR database. Less than 3% of employees, the amount varying between indicators, have not had all their employment details in the global HR processes, and thus their qualities have been assumed to be the same as on average among the rest of the global employees, i.e. their gender, employment and contract type. The new-hires and resigned employee numbers do not include any such assumptions of employees having joined but still lacking the formal record of that activity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 90 Anchor Independent Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Management of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Corporation Scope of Engagement Wärtsilä Corporation (“Wärtsilä”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Finland OY/AB (“DNV GL”) to conduct a limited assurance engagement over selected sustainability disclosures presented in the Wärtsilä Annual Report (“Report”) for the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2019. Selected Information The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the General and Topic-specific GRI-disclosures (the “Selected Information”). The location of Selected Information in the Report is specified in the “GRI and UNGC index”. In addition, we have reviewed the sustainability information presented in the “Stories” section marked with “Sustainability Assured”. To assess the Selected Information, which includes an assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report, we have used Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI standards (2016) and Wärtsilä’s reporting principles, (the “Criteria”, see Reporting Principles -section of the Report). We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusion, on any other information that may be published in the Report or on Wärtsilä’s website for the current reporting period. Our conclusions Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information is not fairly stated and has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. We believe that the Report is in line with the “Comprehensive” requirements of the GRI standards. This conclusion relates only to the Selected Information, and is to be read in the context of this Assurance Report, in particular the inherent limitations explained below. Standar Standard d and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance. DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less detailed than those undertaken during a reasonable assurance engagement, so the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered sufficient to provide a basis for our opinion, so that the risk of this conclusion being in error is reduced, but not reduced completely. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 91 Basis of our conclusion We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information; our work included, but was not restricted to: • Assessing the appropriateness of the Criteria for the Selected Information; • Conducting interviews with Wärtsilä’s management to obtain an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Selected Information; • Conducting one physical site visit and five remote site audits to review processes and systems for preparing site-level data consolidated at Head Office. The physical site visit was conducted at: ◦ Wärtsilä Finland; and remote site audits at: ◦ Wärtsilä Iberica, Spain ◦ Wärtsilä Indonesia; ◦ Wärtsilä Japan; ◦ Wärtsilä North America; and ◦ Wärtsilä Transas, Russia. DNV GL was free to choose the sites on the basis of materiality; • Reviewing data at source and following this through to consolidated Group data; • Reviewing whether the evidence, measurements, and scope of the Selected Information is prepared in accordance with the Criteria; and • Reviewing the Report and narrative accompanying the Selected Information in the Report with regard to the Criteria. • Evaluation of the disclosed information in the Report for “in accordance – Comprehensive” reporting requirements of GRI standards. Inher Inherentent limitations Our assurance relies on the premise that the data and information provided by Wärtsilä to us as part of our review procedures have been provided in good faith. Because of the selective nature (sampling) and other inherent limitations of both procedures and systems of internal control, there remains the unavoidable risk that errors or irregularities may not have been detected. Energy use data utilized in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for determining such data. Finally, the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques may result in materially different measurements. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Independent Assurance Report. Our competence, independence and quality contr controlol DNV GL established policies and procedures are designed to ensure that DNV GL, its personnel and – where applicable – others are subject to independence requirements (including personnel of other entities of DNV GL) maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals, whose members have not been involved in the development of any of the Criteria. Our multi-disciplinary team consisted of professionals with a combination of environmental and sustainability assurance experience. Responsibilities of the Management of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä and DNV GL The Management of Wärtsilä have sole responsibility for: • Preparing and presenting the Selected Information in accordance with the Criteria; • Designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls over the information and data, resulting in the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatements; • Measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on their established Criteria; and This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 92 • Contents and statements contained within the Report and the Criteria. Our responsibility is to plan and perform our work to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information has been prepared in accordance with the Criteria and to report to Wärtsilä in the form of an independent limited assurance conclusion, based on the work performed and the evidence obtained. We have not been responsible for the preparation of the Report. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance Finland OY/AB Espoo, Finland, 7th February 2020 Mikael Niskala Souvik Kumar Ghosh Lead Auditor Principal Consultant and Reviewer DNV GL – Business Assurance DNV GL – Business Assurance This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 93 Anchor GRI and UNGC index General Disclosur Disclosures es GRI 102: General DisclosurDisclosures es GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the Organisation Strategy 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Strategy Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä Marine Business 102-3 Location of headquarters Shares Helsinki, Finland 102-4 Location of operations Strategy www.wartsila.com 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shares 102-6 Markets served Strategy Strategy 102-7 Scale of the organization Shareholders 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain management 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply Social chain Product design principles 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Risks and risk management Manufacturing and R&D 102-12 External initiatives Stakeholder relations 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder relations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO review Risks and risk management Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä Marine Business Innovating for sustainability Ethics and integrity Strategy 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Guiding principles Guiding principles 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance Governance Corporate governance 102-18 Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate governance 102-19 Delegating authority Board of Directors 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Board of Management environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Annual General Meeting and social topics Internal control 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Board of Directors committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors The nomination committee proposes new board members. The committee consults Annual General Meeting major shareholders, and in their proposals 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Board of Directors they take into account the specific needs of the Board, including sustainability competencies and diversity. Board of Directors 102-25 Conflicts of interest Insider management Shareholders 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Board of Directors values, and strategy Internal control Internal control 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Board of Management The evaluation is of general nature, but also includes sustainability issues if such 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Board of Directors concerns arise. The evaluation partly affects the membership changes within the Board. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and Board of Directors social impacts Risks and risk management This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 94 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Board of Directors Board of Directors 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics The Board's committees 9 meetings in 2019 Internal control 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Report profile 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Internal control 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns This information is not publicly disclosed. 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration report 2019 The Board's committees 102-36 Process for determining remuneration People management 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Remuneration report 2019 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder relations 56% of Wärtsilä employees were covered 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements by collective bargaining agreements in 2019. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder relations Stakeholder relations 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Customer satisfaction 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder relations Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Materiality assessment 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality assessment 102-47 List of material topics Materiality assessment 102-48 Restatements of information Materiality assessment 102-49 Changes in reporting Materiality assessment 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Report profile 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Materiality assessment 102-56 External assurance Independent Assurance Report GRI 103: Management Appr Approach oach GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Materiality assessment 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability at Wärtsilä 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability at Wärtsilä Targets Sustainability data Risks and risk management Topic-specific standar standards ds GRI 200 Economic Standar Standard d Series Material topic GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC disclosures GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic performance opportunities due to climate change Risks and risk management 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Economic performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic performance GRI 202: Market Presence This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Sustainability 95 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Only reported the Management compared to local minimum wage Market presence Approach disclosure. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the Market presence local community GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Coverage of risk management Risks and risk management processes is 100% of our operations. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Responsible business . conduct 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiCompliance trust, and monopoly practices GRI 300 EnvirEnvironmental onmental Standar Standard d Series Material topic GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC disclosures GRI 303: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Materials The recycled material input of metals varies between 20% and 95%, depending on the type of furnace and foundry used by the 301-2 Recycled input materials used Materials metal recycling companies in the supply chain, of which there are too many to state an exact percentage. GRI 301: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy 302-3 Energy intensity Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Water water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions Not applicable, Wärtsilä does not 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Emissions produce, import or export ODS. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Emissions other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Effluents and waste 306-3 Significant spills Effluents and waste GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Compliance regulations GRI 400 Social Standar Standard d Series Material topic GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omission UNGC disclosures This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 96 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Employment provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Labour/Management changes Relations GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Occupational health and management–worker health and safety committees safety Injury rate (non-lost time), 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational occupational disease rate Occupational health and diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of classifications by region and safety work-related fatalities gender not reported. These will be studied and analysed in 2020. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Occupational health and related to their occupation safety In some cases local collective bargaining agreements also cover 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Responsible business OHS issues. Detailed listing of the agreements with trade unions conduct topics not applicable, as it is not considered meaningful information. GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Training and education Various types of training can be 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and offered in restructuring situations, Training and education transition assistance programs however specific actions are defined case by case. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Training and education performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities Employment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Compliance taken GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Compliance GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health Compliance and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Compliance and service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Compliance communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Compliance customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Compliance social and economic area This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 97 Governance Corporate governance 98 Annual General Meeting 99 Board of Directors 100 Operations of the Board of Directors 102 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 104 The Board's committees 104 Board of Management 107 The President & CEO 109 Operations of the Board of Management 109 Corporate management 110 Internal control 111 Management systems 112 Values and the control environment 114 Business processes 114 Guidelines and communication 114 Monitoring 115 Audit 115 Related party transactions 116 Insider management 116 Salary and remuneration report 117 Risks and risk management 125 Risk profiles and responsibilities 138 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 98 Anchor Corporate gover governance nance Wärtsilä Corporation complies with the guidelines and provisions of its Articles of Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Wärtsilä also applies the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2020 (“the Code”) issued by the Finnish Securities Market Association. However, the Remuneration report for 2019 is provided in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015. The Code is publicly available at http://cgfinland.fi/en. Wärtsilä has not deviated from any of the Code's recommendations. Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement is published as a separate statement on Wärtsilä's website, as well as in this Annual Report. The content of this Corporate Governance section fully corresponds with Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement. Wärtsilä's Audit Committee has reviewed the Corporate Governance Statement. The company's external auditor has monitored the issuing of the statement and has verified that the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management section, as related to the financial reporting process included in the statement, reconciles with the Financial Statements. Gover Governing ning bodies Wärtsilä applies a single-tier governance model. The General Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO are responsible for the management of the Wärtsilä Group. Their duties are, for the most part, defined by the Finnish Companies Act. The General Meeting of shareholders elects the Board of Directors and the auditor. The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic management of the company and is assisted in its work by the Board Committees. The Board appoints the President & CEO, who is in charge of the operative, dayto-day management of the company, with support from the Board of Management. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 99 Anchor Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä's ultimate decision-making body is the General Meeting of shareholders. It resolves issues as defined for General Meetings in the Finnish Companies Act and the company's Articles of Association. The agenda items for the General Meeting of shareholders include the following: • approving the financial statements • deciding on the distribution of dividends • discharging the company's Board of Directors and President & CEO from liability for the financial year • electing the company's Board of Directors and auditor and deciding on their remuneration A General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation is held at least once a year, at a time no later than the end of June. If needed, the company may also hold Extraordinary General Meetings. An invitation to the General Meeting is published on the company’s website or in a minimum of two daily newspapers, which are commonly distributed in Finland, as decided by the Board of Directors. The invitation shall be published no earlier than two months and no later than three weeks prior to the General Meeting. It shall, however, be published at least nine days prior to the shareholders' record date. Wärtsilä also publishes the invitation to its General Meetings as a stock exchange release. The documents and draft resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting can be found on Wärtsilä's website. Shareholders have the right to add items falling within the competence of the Annual General Meeting to the meeting's agenda. The request must be submitted to the Board of Directors in writing sufficiently in advance of the meeting, so that the item can be added to the Notice of the General Meeting. Wärtsilä publishes on its website the date by which a shareholder must notify the company’s Board of Directors of an issue that he or she demands to be addressed at the General Meeting. This information is given no later than by the end of the financial period preceding the General Meeting and includes the postal or email address to which the demand shall be sent. The demand is always deemed to have arrived in time, if the Board is notified of the demand no later than four weeks before the delivery of the Notice of the General Meeting. All shareholders registered by the record date in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Each share entitles the holder to one vote. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the members of the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO are present at the General Meeting. The auditor-in-charge also attends the Annual General Meeting. Director candidates shall also be present at the General Meeting that decides upon their election. Annual General Meeting 2019 Wärtsilä's Annual General Meeting was held on 7 March 2019. A total of 1,904 shareholders representing 355,176,251 votes participated in person or by proxy. The Annual General Meeting approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2018. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the company for the year 2019. The Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.24 per share was paid on 18 March 2019. The second dividend instalment of EUR 0.24 per share was paid on 27 September 2019. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 57,000,000 of the company’s own shares. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to issue shares in the company as follows: The Board may issue either new shares or transfer own shares held by the company. The maximum number of shares to be so issued shall not exceed 57,000,000. The shares can be issued for consideration or without consideration. They can also be issued in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights by way of a directed issue if there is a weighty financial reason for the company to do so. These authorisations were not used by the Board of Directors in 2019. All resolutions were taken without voting. The minutes of the meeting and other related documents can be found on Wärtsilä's website: www.wartsila.com/investors/governance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 100 Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors Anchor Mikael Lilius Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Chairman of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation. Born 1949, B.Sc. (Econ.). Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010, Chairman of the Board since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Oyj, President & CEO, 2000-2009; Gambro AB, President & CEO, 1998-2000; Incentive AB, President & CEO, 1991-1998; KF Industri AB (Nordico), President & CEO, 1989-1991; Huhtamäki Oy, President of the Packing Division, 1986-1989 Other positions of trust Ahlström Capital Oy and Metso Corporation, Chairman of the Board; Evli Bank Ltd., Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 65,392 shares Anchor Tom Johnstone CBE Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1955, Master of Arts, Honorary Doctorate in Business Administration and Honorary Doctorate in Science. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015, Deputy Chairman of the Board since 2017. Primary working experience SKF Group, several management posts, of which the most recent was President and CEO of AB SKF, 2003-2014 Other positions of trust British Swedish Chamber of Commerce, Combient AB, and Husqvarna AB, Chairman of the Board; Investor AB, Northvolt AB, and Volvo Cars, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 11,693 shares Anchor Maarit Aar Aarni-Sirviö ni-Sirviö Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1953, M.Sc. (Tech.), eMBA. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2007. Primary working experience Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry, Secretary General, 2012-2019; Boardview Oy, Managing Director, 2012-2019; Mint of Finland Ltd., President and CEO, 2008-2010; Borealis Group, several senior positions in 1994-2008 of which the most recent were Vice President BU Phenol, 2001-2008, and Vice President BU Olefins, 1997-2001; Neste Oyj, 1977-1994 Other positions of trust Finland National Committee for UN Women, Chairman of the Board; Korona Invest, Senior Advisor Relevant prior positions of trust Board memberships: Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry, 2011-2019; ecoDa (The European Confederation of Directors’ Associations), 2012-2019; Berendsen plc, 2014-2017; Rautaruukki Oyj, 2005-2012; Ponsse Oyj, 2007-2010; Vattenfall AB, 2004-2007 Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 34,503 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 101 Anchor Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1955, B.Sc., LL.M. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2008. Primary working experience Föreningen Konstsamfundet r.f., Managing Director, 2006-2018; Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Member of management, 2000-2001; SEB Asset Management, Director, 1998-2001; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Chief Executive Officer, 1986-1998; Oy Bensow Ab, Director, Executive Vice President, 1985-1986; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Administrative manager, 1984-1985; Ky von Konow & Co, Administrative manager, 1982-1983 Other positions of trust Julius Tallberg Oy Ab and Novia University of Applied Sciences, Chairman of the Board; Veritas Pension Insurance and JM AB, Member of the Board Relevant prior positions of trust Board chairmanships: Mercator Invest Ab, 2014-2018; KSF Media Holding Ab, 2007-2018; Sponda Oyj, 2013-2017; Stockmann plc, 2014-2016; Fiskars Corporation, 2006-2014; Ålandsbanken Abp, 2011-2013; Aktia Abp, 2005-2009 Board memberships: Fiskars Corporation, 2014-2015; Stockmann plc, 2007-2013 Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 33,769 shares Anchor Karin Falk Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1965, B.Sc. (Econ.). Senior Vice President Volvo Trucks Services & Customer Quality. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Volvo Group, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Brand Portfolio, 2012-2016; Volvo Group, President, Non-Automotive Purchasing, 2008-2012; Volvo Car Corporation, Vice President, Volvo Car Customer Service, 2006-2008; Volvo Car Corporation, President, Volvo Car Special Vehicles, 2001-2006; Volvo Cars and Volvo Group, various positions, 1988-2001 Other positions of trust Volvo Group Venture Capital, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 5,073 shares Anchor Johan Forssell Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1971, M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration). President and CEO of Investor AB. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Investor AB, Head of Core Investments and Member of the Management Group, 2006-2015; Investor AB, Project Director, 2014; Aleris AB, Head of Research, 2003-2006; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods and Healthcare sector, 2001-2003; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods sector and Analyst, 1995-1999 Other positions of trust Atlas Copco, Epiroc AB, EQT AB, and Patricia Industries, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 5,073 shares Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 102 Risto Murto Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1963, Ph.D. (Econ.). President & CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2014. Primary working experience Varma, Executive Vice President, Investments, 2010-2013; Varma, Chief Investment Officer, Investments, 2006-2010; Opstock Ltd, Managing Director, 2000-2005; Opstock Ltd, Head of Equities and Research, 1997-2000; Erik Selin Ltd., Head of Research, 1993-1997 Other positions of trust The Finnish Pension Alliance TELA, Finance Finland (FFI), and Sampo plc, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 11,013 shares Anchor Markus Rauramo Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ. and Pol. Hist.). Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Fortum Executive Management Team. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, City Solutions Division, 2016-2017; Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, Heat, Electricity Sales and Solutions Division, 2014-2016; Fortum Corporation, Chief Financial Officer, 2012-2014; Stora Enso Oyj, CFO and Member of the Group Executive Team, 2008-2012; Stora Enso International, SVP Group Treasurer, 2004-2008; Stora Enso Oyj, VP Strategy and Investments, 2001-2004; Stora Enso Financial Services, VP Head of Funding, 1999-2001; Enso Oyj, several financial tasks, 1993-1999 Other positions of trust Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Member of the Board; Uniper SE, Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 18,675 shares Anchor Operations of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors Responsibility for the management of the company and the proper organisation of its operations lies with the company's Board of Directors, which is composed of five to ten members. Board members serve for one year at a time and are elected by the General Meeting. According to the Corporate Governance Code's recommendation 10, the majority of Board members shall be independent of the company, and at least two of the members representing this majority shall be independent of significant shareholders of the company. The Board evaluates the independence of its members annually and reevaluates it as necessary. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal for the General Meeting regarding the election of directors to the Board and communicates with significant shareholders, when required, on matters pertaining to the proposal. The proposal for the composition of the Board is included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The same applies to a proposal for the composition of the Board made by shareholders with at least 10% of the votes carried by the company shares, provided that the candidates have given their consent to the election, and the company has received information on the proposal sufficiently in advance as to be included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The candidates proposed shall be disclosed separately. Wärtsilä publishes the biographical details of the candidates for the Board on its website in connection with the publication of the Notice of the General Meeting. The Board elects a chairman and a deputy chairman from among its members. The Board steers and supervises the company's operations and decides on policies, goals, and strategies of major importance. The principles applied by the Board to its regular work are set out in the Board Charter. The Board also approves the rules of This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 103 procedure applied by the Board's committees setting out their main tasks and working principles. In addition to matters requiring its decision, the Board is given updates on the Group's operations, financial position and risks at its meetings. The Board conducts an annual self-evaluation of its operations and working methods. The purpose of this evaluation is to assess how the Board has executed its tasks during the year and to act as a basis for developing Board functions. The Board of Directors convenes from eight to eleven times a year, following a pre-determined schedule. In addition to these meetings, the Board convenes as necessary. All board meetings are documented. Diversity principles For the Board of Directors to discharge its duties in the most effective manner, the Board must be highly qualified and sufficiently diverse. When preparing its proposal for the Board's composition, the Nomination Committee considers the educational and professional background of the individual candidates, as well as their international experience, so that the composition of the Board represents a wide variety of competencies and qualifications. The Nomination Committee also considers the candidates' age, as having different seniority levels on the Board is considered beneficial in terms of ensuring a mutually complementary experience. With regards to gender, Wärtsilä’s principle is to have both genders represented on the Board. In December 2019, Wärtsilä had two female board members out of eight members in total. The objective of the company is to achieve a more balanced representation of both genders on the Wärtsilä Board over time. The Nomination Committee assesses the potential candidates, not only in terms of their individual qualifications and characteristics, but also in terms of their ability to effectively work together and jointly support and challenge the company management in a proactive and constructive way. Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors in 2019 As of 7 March 2019, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Ms Karin Falk, Mr Johan Forssell, Mr Tom Johnstone (Deputy Chairman), Mr Mikael Lilius (Chairman), Mr Risto Murto, and Mr Markus Rauramo. All eight Board members were determined to be independent of the company, with the exception of Mr Markus Rauramo who was dependent of the company from March to July, due to an interlocking relationship resulting from Wärtsilä Corporation’s Board of Management member Mr Marco Ryan’s appointment to the Board of Directors of Fortum. Mr Ryan left Wärtsilä in July. Six Board members were determined to be independent of significant shareholders. Mr Tom Johnstone was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to his position on the board of Investor AB. Mr Johan Forssell was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to his position as the President and CEO of Investor AB. Until 7 March 2019, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Ms Karin Falk, Mr Johan Forssell, Mr Tom Johnstone (Deputy Chairman), Mr Mikael Lilius (Chairman), Mr Risto Murto, and Mr Markus Rauramo. During 2019, Wärtsilä's Board of Directors held nine meetings. The average attendance of all directors was 100%. The financial and strategic development of Wärtsilä and its position in the markets, its growth opportunities and profitability development, and the general further development of the company have been, among others, the major items on the Board's agenda. People matters are also an important and continuous part of the Board’s work, as they contribute to Wärtsilä’s long-term success. During 2019, areas of particular focus included the implications of geopolitical uncertainty and trade tensions, manufacturing and R&D operations, project management, Wärtsilä's digital strategy, and business development in Asia. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 104 Boar Board d member meeting participation in 2019 Number of meetings % of meetings Mikael Lilius, Chairman 9/9 100 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 9/9 100 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 9/9 100 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 9/9 100 Karin Falk 9/9 100 Johan Forssell 9/9 100 Risto Murto 9/9 100 Markus Rauramo 9/9 100 Anchor Responsibilities of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Board considers all matters stipulated to be the responsibility of a board of directors by legislation, other regulations, and the company's Articles of Association. The most important of these are: • the annual and interim financial statements • matters to be put before the General Meetings of shareholders • the appointment of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy, if any • the organisation of financial supervision within the company The Board is also responsible for considering any matters that are so far-reaching with respect to the area of the Group's operations that they cannot be considered to fall within the scope of the Group's day-to-day administration. Examples of such matters include: • approval of the long-term goals of the Group and its businesses, as well as the strategies to achieve them • monitoring the developments, opportunities and threats in the external environment, and their impact on goals and strategy • approval of the annual business plan and target setting for the Group • approval of risk management principles • monitoring and assessing the performance of the President & CEO • approval of the remuneration and pension benefits of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy, if any • approval of the corporate governance principles • overseeing that the company complies with legal and regulatory requirements and its Code of Conduct and other established values and ethical principles in its operations • discussing and monitoring the R&D and product development plans of the company • appointing the Board committees • granting charitable donations • approval of other matters that are strategically or financially important, such as significant investments, acquisitions or divestments Anchor The Boar Board's d's committees The Board of Directors appoints annually an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee and may also nominate other committees if considered necessary in its constitutive meeting following the Annual General Meeting. The Board appoints the members of these committees and their chairmen, taking into consideration the expertise and experience required for the duties of the committee. The Board also has the right to remove a member from a committee. The members of each committee are appointed for the same term of office as This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 105 the Board itself. In addition to the committee members, other Board members may participate in committee meetings, if they so wish. The purpose of the Board's committees is to prepare matters to be put before the Board for its decision. The committees have no decision-making authority of their own. The Audit Committee The Board of Directors appoints an Audit Committee to assist it in the performance of its supervisory duties. The Board appoints from among its members at least three members to the Committee. These members shall have the qualifications necessary to perform the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The majority of the members of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company and at least one member shall be independent of the company’s significant shareholders. The Board defines the duties of the Audit Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Audit Committee monitors the financial statement reporting process, as well as the efficiency of the internal control, internal audit, and risk management systems. Furthermore, the Committee reviews the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process, monitors the statutory audit of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements, evaluates the independence of the statutory audit firm, and prepares the proposal for resolution on the election of the auditor. Other duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing the accounting principles of the company and approving any amendments to them, reviewing the interim and financial statements of the company and the reports prepared by the auditor for the Audit Committee, as well as evaluating the processes aimed at ensuring compliance with laws and regulations and monitoring the company’s credit position and taxation. The Audit Committee also reviews the company’s Corporate Governance Statements and reviews and resolves any special issues raised by the Board of Directors that fall within the competence of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee convenes the Committee as required. The Chairman also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Audit Committee in 2019 Chairman Markus Rauramo, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and significant shareholders. The Audit Committee met five times in 2019. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Nomination Committee The Board of Directors appoints a Nomination Committee to assist in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to serve on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Nomination Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal to be put before the General Meeting regarding the election of the directors to the Board. The Committee communicates, when required, with major shareholders on matters pertaining to the election of the directors to the Board. The Nomination Committee prepares matters concerning the remuneration applicable to Board members. The Nomination Committee monitors and reports to the Board of Directors the achievement related to the Board’s diversity objectives on a yearly basis, and, if needed, the Committee proposes adjustments to the Diversity Policy for the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Nomination Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Nomination Committee in 2019 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell, and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and three are independent of significant shareholders. In addition to several discussions, the Nomination Committee held five formal meetings in 2019. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 106 The Remuneration Committee The Board appoints a Remuneration Committee to assist in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to sit on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Remuneration Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Remuneration Committee prepares, as necessary, matters concerning the appointment of the President & CEO, the CEO's deputy, if any, and other members of the Board of Management for the Board of Directors. The Committee prepares proposals for the Board of Directors concerning the remuneration principles, incentive schemes, and remuneration that apply to the President & CEO and the members of the Board of Management. External consultants used by the committee are independent of the company and management. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Remuneration Committee in 2019 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Tom Johnstone. All members are independent of the company and two are independent of significant shareholders. The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2019. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. Boar Board d member committee meeting participation in 2019 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Mikael Lilius 5/5 4/4 Tom Johnstone 4/4 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 5/5 4/4 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 5/5 Karin Falk Johan Forssell 5/5 Risto Murto 5/5 5/5 Markus Rauramo 5/5 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 107 Anchor Boar Board d of Management Anchor Jaakko Eskola President & CEO of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1998. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO, 2013-2015; Wärtsilä Corporation, President, Marine Solutions, 2006-2015; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Power Plants Sales & Marketing, 2005-2006; Wärtsilä Development & Financial Services Oy, President, 1998-2005; PCA Corporate Finance, Executive Director, 1997-1998; Kansallis-Osake-Pankki, various managerial positions in international project finance, 1986-1997; Industrialization Fund of Finland, Corporate Analyst, 1984-1986; VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Researcher, 1983-1984 Positions of trust Ahlstrom-Munksjö Oyj, The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and The Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion, Member of the Board Relevant prior positions of trust European Marine Equipment Council (EMEC), President, 2008-2011 Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 41,739 shares Anchor Arjen Ber Berends ends Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2018. Born 1968, MBA. Joined the company in 1988. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Finance & Business Control, Marine Solutions, 2012-2018; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Finance & Business Control, Wärtsilä Industrial Operations, 2010-2012; Wärtsilä Corporation, Finance Director, Wärtsilä Industrial Operations, 2007-2010; Finance Director, Propulsor Business & Finance Director, Wärtsilä Propulsion Netherlands B.V., 2002-2007; Controller Marine / Manufacturing & Finance Director, Wärtsilä Norway AS, 1998-2002; Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V., various controller positions, 1988-1998 Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: no shares Anchor Alid Dettke Executive Vice President, Human Resources since 24 October 2019. Born 1981, Double-degree BA (Hons) European Business. Joined the company in 2017. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Open Innovation, 2018-2019; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Digital Innovation, 2017-2018; Accenture Interactive, Senior Manager, Digital, Accenture Singapore, 2012-2017; Accenture Interactive, Manager, Digital, Accenture Singapore, 2010-2012; Accenture Interactive, Consultant, Digital, Accenture Singapore, 2007-2010; Research International Asia, Senior Research Executive, 2005-2006; BASF, Management Trainee, Regional e-Commerce Solutions, BASF South East Asia, 2004 Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: no shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 108 Anchor Kari Hietanen Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations and Legal Affairs since 2012, Company Secretary since 2002. Born 1963, LL.M. Joined the company in 1989. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Legal Affairs, 2002-2011; Wärtsilä Corporation, Power Divisions, Group General Counsel, 2000-2002; Wärtsilä Diesel Group, General Counsel, 1994-1999; Metra Corporation and Wärtsilä Diesel Group, Legal Counsel, 1989-1994 Positions of trust European Engine Power Plants Association, EUGINE, Vice President; German-Finnish Chamber of Commerce, Member of the Board; Finnish-Russian Intergovernmental Economic Commission, II Deputy Chairman; Finnish-Korean Trade Association, Member of the Board; East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, Member of the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Member of the Trade Policy Committee; International Trade Committee, Finland Chamber of Commerce / ICC Advisory Board, ICC Finland, Member Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 15,633 shares Anchor Roger Holm President, Marine Business and Executive Vice President since 2015. Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 1997. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Senior Vice President, Engines, 2013-2015; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Seals & Bearings, 2011-2013; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Solutions Management, Services, 2010-2011; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Business Development, Services, 2008-2010; Wärtsilä Corporation, Chief Information Officer, 2006-2008; Wärtsilä Corporation, Program Director, Global ERP Program, 2002-2006; Wärtsilä Corporation, Corporate Controller, 2001-2002; Wärtsilä Finland Oy and Wärtsilä NSD Finland Oy, various managerial positions, 1997-2001 Positions of trust Hanken School of Economics, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 11,796 shares Anchor Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications, Branding & Marketing since 2018. Born 1965, M.Sc. (Pol.). Joined the company in 2008. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President, Communications and Branding, 2008-2018; Nordea Bank AB (publ.), Group Chief Press Officer, 2007-2008; Nordea Bank AB (publ.), Chief Communication Officer, Finland, 2005-2006; Kauppalehti, Senior Business Correspondent, 2002-2005; MTV3, Senior Economic Correspondent, 2000-2002; MTV3, News Producer, 1995-2000; MTV3, News Anchor, 1993-1995 Positions of trust Finland Promotion Board, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 14,493 shares Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 109 Mar Marco co W Wirirénén President, Energy Business and Executive Vice President since 2018. Born 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 2013. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 2013-2018; SSAB, Executive Vice President and CFO, 2008-2013; SSAB, Vice President Business Control, 2007-2008; Eltel Networks, CFO and VP Business Development, 2002-2007; NCC, VP Business Development and Group Controller, 1995-2001 Positions of trust Neste Corporation, Member of the Board Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2019: 20,184 shares Päivi Castr Castrénén acted as Executive Vice President, Human Resources until 24 October 2019. Mar Marcoco Ryan acted as Executive Vice President and Chief Digital Officer until 17 July 2019. Anchor The Pr President esident & CEO The Board of Directors appoints a President for the Group, who is also its Chief Executive Officer. The President & CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the company and its administration in accordance with the company's Articles of Association, the Finnish Companies Act, and the instructions of the Board of Directors, and is assisted in this work by the Board of Management. The President & CEO's service terms and conditions are specified in writing in the service contract. The President & CEO of the company is Mr Jaakko Eskola. Anchor Operations of the Boar Board d of Management Wärtsilä’s Board of Management comprises seven members: the President & CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Wärtsilä Energy Business and Wärtsilä Marine Business, and the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Communications & Branding, the Corporate Relations & Legal Affairs, and the Human Resources functions. The members of the Board of Management are appointed by the company's Board of Directors, which also approves their remuneration and other terms of employment. The Board of Management is chaired by the President & CEO. It considers strategic issues related to the Group and its businesses, as well as investments, product policy, and the Group's structure and corporate steering systems. It also supervises the company's operations. The Chief Financial Officer's main areas of responsibility include group accounting and control, treasury (including project and customer financing), taxation, process development, corporate planning, and investor relations. The Executive Vice Presidents heading the businesses are each responsible for the sales volumes and profitability of their respective global businesses, deploying the capabilities of the Group's worldwide subsidiaries. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations & Legal are corporate relations and legal affairs, intellectual asset management and sustainability, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety, quality, and security, including cyber security. The Executive Vice President, Human Resources is responsible for people related processes. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding are external and internal communications, as well as branding and marketing. Information on the members of the Board of Management and their areas of responsibility and holdings can be found in the Board of Management CVs. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 110 The Boar Board d of Management in 2019 The Board of Management met 13 times during 2019. The main issues addressed by the Board of Management included market development and business strategy, growth areas, the cost structure and profitability of the company, as well as developments related to the competitiveness and quality of products and services, and Wärtsilä's organisational structure. Digitalisation and security, particularly cybersecurity, were also high on the agenda, as were occupational health and safety and operational excellence. Furthermore, the Board of Management continuously addresses the development of the regulatory operating environment, order intake and production capacity, as well as supplier and other stakeholder relationships. Anchor Corporate management The company's Corporate Management includes, in addition to the Board of Management, the following directors responsible for corporate functions: Juha Hiekkanen Vice President, Financial Controlling Born 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.) Riitta Hovi Deputy General Counsel, Corporate Legal Affairs Born 1960, LL.M., MBA Anu Hämäläinen Vice President, Group Treasury and Financial Services & Support Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Sari Kolu Director, Compliance Born 1967, Master of Laws, Executive MBA Jukka Kumpulainen Vice President, Chief Information Officer (CIO) Born 1968, M.Sc. (Eng.) Vesa Riihimäki Vice President, Quality Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.) Ritva Seppänen Vice President, Brand Born 1977, BA (Cultural studies) Tom Unnérus Vice President, Corporate Internal Audit Born 1972, M.Sc. (Eng.) Marko V Vainikka ainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability Born 1970, M.Sc. (Eng.) Natalia VValtasaari altasaari Vice President, Investor Relations Born 1984, M.Sc. (Econ.) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 111 Business Management teams Each business head is supported by a Business Management team. The Business Management teams are comprised of the heads of the business units and business lines, as well as business specific support function heads. They are responsible for executing the respective business strategies and ensuring that the Businesses’ performance is in line with agreed targets. Managing Dir Directors ectors of the subsidiaries The Managing Directors of the Group's subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring that local resources are correctly dimensioned to meet the needs of the businesses, and that the subsidiary's personnel development needs are met. The Managing Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the subsidiary's operations fulfil the requirements stipulated in the Group processes, including the quality system, that these operations comply with the respective country's legal requirements and with good business practices, and that communication within the subsidiary is conducted according to the targets of the Group. Anchor Inter Internal nal contr control ol Wärtsilä has defined its objectives for internal control according to the international COSO framework. Wärtsilä defines internal control as a process implemented by Wärtsilä's Board of Directors, the Management, the Boards of Directors of Group companies, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives. Internal control covers all the policies, processes, procedures and organisational structures within Wärtsilä that help the management, and ultimately the Board, to ensure that Wärtsilä is achieving its objectives, that the business conduct is ethical and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, that the company's assets, including its brand, are safeguarded, and that its financial reporting is correct. Internal control is not a separate process or set of activities but is embedded in Wärtsilä's operations. The system of internal control operates at all levels of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä maintains and develops its internal control system with the ultimate aim of improving its business performance and, at the same time, complying with laws and regulations in countries where it operates. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 112 Anchor Management systems The Board of Management is responsible for developing and implementing Wärtsilä's management system, continuously improving its performance and ensuring that it operates effectively. The Wärtsilä management system covers all global processes and management procedures within Wärtsilä related to fulfilling customer requirements. The proper functioning of the management systems below ensures, for their part, the attainment of Wärtsilä's internal control objectives. Performance management Planning and target setting, an integral part of performance management in Wärtsilä, is a regular management activity and not part of Wärtsilä's internal control system. The establishment of objectives, however, is an important pre-requisite for internal control. Through the performance management process, financial and non-financial targets are set for Wärtsilä annually at the Group level. These Group level targets are then translated into targets for the Businesses, Group companies, and eventually for individuals. The achievement of the annual targets is monitored through monthly management reporting. The performance of the Businesses and the achievement of the annual targets are reviewed on a monthly basis in the respective Management team meetings. The performance relating to the targets set by the Group and the different Businesses are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of Management. The respective management teams and the Board of Management also address the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's financial reporting is carried out in a harmonised way in all major Group companies, using a single instance ERP system and a common chart of accounts. The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied throughout the entire Group. Wärtsilä's finance and control process is essential for the functioning of internal control. Adequate controls in the financial management and accounting processes are needed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. The Board of Directors regularly assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. It is also responsible for ensuring that the internal control of accounting and financial administration is arranged appropriately. The Audit Committee of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process. The Group Business Control function, together with the Business Control functions in the Business areas, are responsible for notifying relevant levels of management regarding deviations from plans, analysing the underlying reasons and suggesting corrective actions. These functions support the Businesses in decision-making and analyses to ensure the attainment of financial targets. They maintain and develop the company's performance management processes, so that the management at different levels of the organisation is able to receive timely, reliable, and adequate information regarding the achievement of the organisation's objectives. In addition, they are responsible for developing the financial reporting processes and respective controls. Legal and compliance management Legal and compliance management practices and processes occupy a central role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's policy is to act in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations in all countries where it operates. Legal and compliance management acts predominantly in a proactive manner. Legal Affairs supports the President & CEO and the businesses in analysing and making decisions on matters involving contract policy, risk management, and regulatory considerations. Other key activities are to lead compliance management, and to strengthen and ensure the culture of appropriate conduct and behaviour, both internally and in external business transactions. Compliance management is based on the Code of Conduct and relevant group level policies and directives. Company-wide control mechanisms and processes are a part of the overall internal control system. HR management Human resource management practices and processes play an active role in Wärtsilä's internal control system. Wärtsilä's main human resource management processes with respect to internal control are compensation and This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 113 benefits, HR development, recruitment and resourcing management, individual performance management, as well as processes for collecting employee feedback. The HR function is responsible for maintaining and developing Wärtsilä's people related processes to enable effective internal control, also at the individual level. Quality management The quality of Wärtsilä's solutions, and thus quality management, is a top priority for Wärtsilä. Compliance with Wärtsilä's Quality Management System ISO 9001:2000 is compulsory throughout the Group, and compliance with the system is rigorously monitored. Sustainability management Wärtsilä is strongly committed to sustainability. Wärtsilä's purpose and values, together with a solid financial performance, form the basis for sustainable development within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä applies global guiding principles, such as the Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety policy (QEHS policy) and the Code of Conduct, which, together with the company's values, ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. In addition to the aforementioned, the Corporate Manual includes other policies and directives, a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities, and the management system structure. Wärtsilä's Board of Management has overall responsibility for sustainability performance. The Board of Management approves the guiding principles and reviews the content on a regular basis. The Board of Management defines sustainability targets and monitors performance against these set targets. Performance is reviewed in connection with management reviews at Wärtsilä's both Board of Management and Business Management Team levels. The Board of Directors reviews major sustainability issues on an annual basis. In addition, the Board of Management identifies major critical concerns and, when necessary, communicates such concerns to the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä's sustainability function is responsible for providing the necessary information to management, identifying development needs, as well as for coordinating sustainability programmes and preparing instructions. The function cooperates closely with the Businesses and the support functions, such as Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Compliance and Quality. It also collects and consolidates sustainability data from the subsidiaries. Wärtsilä has clearly defined responsibilities, which are supported by necessary instructions and training. This training covers, for example, the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety issues. Wärtsilä monitors its sustainability performance by utilising the information provided by various sustainability tools and activities, such as internal audits and compliance processes. Risk management Internal control within Wärtsilä is designed to support the company in achieving its targets. The risks related to the achievement of targets need to be identified and evaluated in order for them to be managed. Thus, the identification and assessment of risks is a pre-requisite for internal control within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's internal control mechanisms and procedures provide the management assurance that risk management actions are carried out as planned. Wärtsilä has defined and implemented entity level and process level control activities, as well as information system controls. Control activities at different levels are needed to directly mitigate risks at the respective levels. Wärtsilä's risk management processes consist of Group-wide risk assessment and management processes, as well as project-specific risk assessment and project risk management. The Group-wide risk assessment process results in the creation of action plans for the identified and prioritised risks. Each Business reports its main risks to Wärtsilä's Board of Management, which reviews the execution of the defined risk management action plans on a regular basis. Wärtsilä's Board of Directors is responsible for defining the Group's overall level of risk tolerance, and for ensuring that Wärtsilä has adequate tools and resources for managing risks. The Board reviews the risk profile regularly. The President & CEO, with the assistance of the Board of Management, is responsible for organising and ensuring risk management in Wärtsilä's operations. The Business management is responsible for defining action plans for managing the most important risks. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 114 Wärtsilä's most important strategic, operational, and financial risks can be found in the Risks and risk management section of this report. Information management Information management plays a key role in Wärtsilä's internal control system. Information systems are critical for effective internal control as many of the control activities are programmed controls. Anchor Values and the contr control ol envir environmentonment The foundation of Wärtsilä's internal control system lies on the company’s values: Energy, Excellence and Excitement. Wärtsilä's values are reflected in its day-to-day relations with its suppliers, customers, and investors, as well as in internal guidelines, policies, manuals, processes, and practices. The control environment sets the tone for internal control within Wärtsilä and influences the control awareness of its people. It provides discipline and structure for all the other components of internal control. The elements of Wärtsilä's control environment are included in the corporate culture; the integrity, ethical values and competence of Wärtsilä's personnel; as well as in the attention and direction provided to the personnel by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's values and control environment provide Wärtsilä's Board of Directors and Management the basis for reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the objectives of internal control. The President & CEO and the Board of Management define Wärtsilä's values and ethical principles, which are reflected in the Code of Conduct, and set an example for the corporate culture, which together create the basis for the control environment. They, together with the Business management, are responsible for communicating Wärtsilä's values to the organisation. Anchor Business pr processes ocesses The controls embedded in Wärtsilä's business processes play a key role in ensuring effective internal control within the company. Controls in the business processes help ensure the achievement of all the objectives of internal control within Wärtsilä, especially those related to the efficiency of operations and safeguarding the company's profitability and reputation. The Business management is responsible for ensuring that, within its area of responsibility, the defined Group level processes and controls are implemented and complied with. Where no Group level processes and controls exist, the Business management is responsible for ensuring that efficient Business level processes with adequate controls have been defined and implemented. Anchor Guidelines and communication Guidelines and manuals The components of Wärtsilä's internal control system, including for example corporate governance, the management system, the performance management process, as well as business and other processes, are described in various guidelines and manuals. The essential Group level policies and guidelines are compiled in Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual. Wärtsilä's Group level Accounting Manual contains instructions and guidance on accounting and financial reporting to be applied in all Wärtsilä Group companies. The manual supports the achievement of objectives related to the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's Group level policies, and any changes to them, shall be approved by a member of the Board of Management. In addition to the Group level guidelines and manuals, the Businesses have issued related guidelines and instructions for their own, specific purposes. The Business level guidelines and manuals are aligned with, and do not contradict, the Group level guidelines and manuals. Information and communication An effective internal control system needs sufficient, timely and reliable information to enable the management to assess the achievement of the company's objectives. Both financial and non-financial information is needed, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 115 relating to both internal and external events and activities. Employees can provide feedback to management and communicate suspected misconduct via a whistle blower channel that secures anonymous reporting, or directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs, or Internal Audit function. All external communications are carried out in accordance with the Group Communications Policy. Anchor Monitoring Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of Wärtsilä's system of internal control and its performance over time. Monitoring within Wärtsilä is performed both on an ongoing basis, and through separate evaluations that include internal, external, and quality audits. The Business management is responsible for ensuring that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with in their respective responsibility areas. Wärtsilä's management, in turn, performs monitoring as part of its regular supervisory activities. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors assesses and assures the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. The Internal Audit function assists the Audit Committee in assessing and assuring the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management by performing regular audits of Group legal entities, businesses, and support functions in accordance with its annual plan. Wärtsilä's external auditor and other assurance providers, such as quality auditors, conduct evaluations of Wärtsilä's internal controls. The Group Finance & Control function oversees the financial reporting processes and controls to ensure that they are being followed. It also monitors the correctness of all external and internal financial reporting. The Legal and Compliance function monitors adherence to the compliance policies of the Group. The external auditors verify the correctness of the external annual financial reports. Anchor Audit Inter Internal nal The Group's internal audit is handled by its Internal Audit unit, which reports to the Audit Committee and to the Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of the Internal Audit unit is to analyse the company's operations and processes, as well as the effectiveness and quality of its supervision mechanisms. The internal auditor also participates, if necessary, in audits undertaken in conjunction with acquisitions and carries out special tasks when needed. The Internal Audit function covers all the company's organisational levels and subsidiaries. An internal audit is undertaken in the subsidiaries and network companies at regular intervals, ranging from one to four years, based on a systematic evaluation. The Internal Audit function prepares an annual plan, under which it independently audits different parts of the company. The annual plan is approved by the Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function is also empowered to carry out special audits. If required, the auditors also have the possibility to take direct contact with the Audit Committee or members of the Board of Directors. Exter Externalnal The company has one auditor, which shall be an audit firm. The auditor is elected by the Annual General Meeting to audit the accounts for the ongoing financial year, and its duties cease at the close of the subsequent Annual General Meeting. The auditor is responsible for auditing the consolidated and parent company financial statements and accounting records, as well as the administration of the parent company. Following the closing of the annual accounts, the external auditor submits a statutory auditor's report to the company's shareholders, and also regularly reports its findings to the Board of Directors' Audit Committee. The auditor, in addition to fulfilling general competency requirements, must comply with certain legal independence requirements guaranteeing the execution of an independent and reliable audit. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 116 Auditor in 2019 The Annual General Meeting appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (PwC) as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor for the year 2019. The auditor-in-charge was Ms Merja Lindh. Auditing fees paid to PwC amounted to EUR 4.3 million in 2019. Consultancy fees unrelated to auditing duties totalled EUR 0.5 million. The latter fees concerned tax advisory and other services. Anchor Related party transactions Wärtsilä’s related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the Board of Management, as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. The Group Finance and Control function evaluates and monitors transactions concluded between the company and its related parties to ensure that any conflicts of interest are considered appropriately in Wärtsilä’s decision-making process. Anchor Insider management Wärtsilä manages inside information and insiders in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding insiders and insider trading. The most important statutory provisions are contained in the Market Abuse Regulation (EU) 596/2014 (“MAR”). Wärtsilä also follows the Insider Guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. and Wärtsilä’s Insider Policy. The company draws up insider lists for projects containing inside information. Insiders are given written notification of their status as insiders and instructions on the obligations that apply to insiders. The members of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors and Board of Management and certain other Wärtsilä personnel are prohibited from trading Wärtsilä’s financial instruments during the 30 days prior to the publication of a financial statements bulletin or an interim report. Wärtsilä publishes notifications on transactions conducted by persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and persons closely associated with them in accordance with the provisions of the MAR. The term “persons discharging managerial responsibilities refers exclusively to the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Management of Wärtsilä. These notifications are available on Wärtsilä’s webpages. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 117 Anchor Salary and rremuneration emuneration rreport eport Dear Shar Shareholders, eholders, This report sets out the Wärtsilä remuneration principles for the Board of Directors and Board of Management for 2019 and enumerates the same for three previous years. With this, we aim to increase transparency regarding Wärtsilä’s remuneration practices and how they contribute to the business strategy and long-term interests. Wärtsilä strives for high performance, and strong achievements are recognised and rewarded. Remuneration at Wärtsilä is guided by our ‘Pay for Performance’ principles. These principles are used to structure the reward approach throughout the organisation and designed to align employee rewards with the interests of the company and its shareholders. The remuneration policy for the President & CEO, prepared and issued in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2020 and EU’s Second Shareholder Rights Directive ‘SHRD II’, has been developed taking these principles into account. We believe in a consistent approach to performance rewarding at Wärtsilä. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management, which also cascade down to other members of the senior management team, have operated broadly unchanged for some years. The short-term incentive awards for the Board of Management have been consistently based on profitability (EBIT%) and cash flow targets over the past years. The expected performance criteria for profitability were set at highly ambitious levels also for 2019. Wärtsilä’s financial performance in 2019 resulted in neither the profitability nor the cash flow target thresholds being met. Therefore, no short-term incentives were awarded for the year. Wärtsilä’s long-term incentive scheme is based on share price development. The 2017-2019 scheme performance period ended at the end of 2019. Due to share price performance during the performance period, there will be no pay-out for the scheme. Going forward, performance-based rewarding principles remain the foundation of Wärtsilä remuneration practices. Both long-term and short-term incentive arrangements will continue in 2020 with ambitious targets. Mikael Lilius Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 118 Remuneration principles for the Boar Board d of Management Wärtsilä's rewarding principles are designed to attract, retain, and motivate executives by providing compensation solutions that reward them for their performance in delivering business results. The remuneration mix for the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable, performance related, pay. The objective is to have a good balance of rewarding elements. These comprise a fixed pay level guaranteed to be market competitive, supported by shortand long-term incentive schemes to drive company performance and to reward accordingly. Fixed pay The fixed remuneration paid to the President & CEO and to the other members of the Board of Management consists of a monthly base salary and fringe benefits. Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account the company’s and the individual’s performance and the market conditions. The members of the Board of Management are provided private medical insurance and life insurance. They are also offered a company car benefit. Taking into consideration Wärtsilä's emphasis on environmental responsibility, hybrid or low emission cars are recommended. The President & CEO and members of the Board of Management participate in company specific pension schemes, in addition to any statutory requirements. The nature of the supplementary pension schemes and retirement ages vary. They are generally based on the retirement scheme of the national social security system to which the person in question belongs and are either defined benefit or defined contribution based. Variable pay Short-term incentive schemes The Group operates a bonus scheme, which is implemented globally and is designed to provide incentives for achievement of and reward for delivery of the short-term business plan. The bonus is based on the Group's financial targets, business specific targets, as well as agreed team and personal targets. Around 3,000 directors and managers are covered by this scheme. For the President & CEO and the Board of Management, the payment is based on the achievement of the company's profitability and other financial targets for the financial year, as set by the Board of Directors. The shortterm incentive opportunity is capped at 100% of the annual base salary for the President & CEO, and 65% of the annual base salary for the other members of the Board of Management. Bonuses are paid in cash shortly after yearend. Wärtsilä's employees also participate in bonus or profit-based incentive schemes. These are applied in the majority This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 119 of countries where Wärtsilä operates, in accordance with each country's legislation. Alternatively, they take the form of local bonus or profit-sharing schemes. All in all, 80% of the company's employees are covered by the Group's bonus schemes and various other performance-related incentive schemes. Long-term incentive scheme Around 100 senior managers, including the President & CEO and the Board of Management, participate in Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The objective of the long-term incentive scheme is to align the interests of senior management with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders by creating a long-term equity-related interest for the participants. This promotes shareholder value creation and drives a long-term performance culture within Wärtsilä. The long-term incentive scheme has a three-year performance period. Under the scheme, participants are awarded incentive rights. The value of an incentive right at the end of the performance period is based on share price development between the three-month period immediately preceding the performance period and the last three months of the performance period. The share price at the end of the period may include a value for some or all of the normal and any extraordinary dividends paid by Wärtsilä Corporation during the performance period. Valuation of the incentive rights: To ensure an appropriate level of reward, an upper limit is set for each award cycle, capping the maximum value for each incentive right. The incentive rights are paid out in cash or in shares. The schemes launched as of 2019 will be paid out in shares to promote shareholder value creation by strengthening the alignment of senior management interests with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders. Shar Sharee ownership policy Each member of the Board of Management is expected to accumulate and, once achieved, maintain a share ownership in Wärtsilä that, at minimum, corresponds to the individual’s annual gross base salary. Gover Governance nance The Board of Directors determines the levels and underlying principles of the fixed pay as well as the incentive schemes for the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management. The Board of Directors also decides on other possible long-term incentive schemes for senior management, unless they are by law determined by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Management decides on bonus schemes for other directors and managers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 120 Anchor Remuneration of the Boar Board d of Management Contractual terms for the Pr President esident & CEO The base salary of the President & CEO is EUR 893,582 p.a. He is entitled to participate in the shortand long-term incentive schemes according to the terms and conditions described above. The President & CEO is eligible to take retirement upon reaching the age of sixty-three (63). His pension scheme is determined according to a defined contribution based system. The retirement pension contribution is equivalent to 20% of the annual salary. Remuneration paid to the President & CEO if dismissed by the company corresponds to 18 months’ salary plus a six months’ period of notice salary. Boar Board d of Management's total rremuneration emuneration in 2019 TEUR Salary and Supplementary short-term pension Short-term Long-term Board of Management benefits contributions incentives1 incentives2 Total Jaakko Eskola, President & CEO 894 (862) 179 (170) 0 (239) 0 (1 696) 1 072 (2 967) Pierpaolo Barbone, Deputy to the CEO (until 31.12.2018) (384) (107) (56) (848) (1 396) Other members of the Board of Management3 2 423 (2 263) 370 (368) 0 (480) 0 (4 452) 2 792 (7 563) 1The figures of the comparison period relate to the annual bonus for 2017 performance, which was paid in 2018. 2The figures of the comparison period relate to the 2015-2017 long-term incentive cycle, which was paid in 2018. 3Remuneration for a period other than the financial year: Marco Ryan 1.1.-17.7.2019, Päivi Castrén 1.1.-24.10.2019, Alid Dettke 1.11.-31.12.2020 Short-term incentive schemes The Board of Management's performance target structure for short-term incentives is described in the table below. A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 121 Short-term incentives for 2019 performance The above performance measures and weightings apply to the annual bonus for 2019 performance. Performance against the group targets was as follows: As the performance outcomes were below the target thresholds, no bonuses were paid out. Short-term incentives for 2020 performance There are no changes proposed to the short-term incentive plan for 2020. The performance measures, weightings, and maximum limits will be the same as those applied for 2019. Historical development of performance outcome The performance measures and weightings have remained consistent during the past years. Actual performance against the group targets during 2016-2018 is presented below. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 122 Long-term incentive scheme The table below sets out details of the realised and outstanding awards under Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The scheme applies to Wärtsilä’s senior management, consisting of approximately 100 directors, including the Board of Management. The value delivered is based on share price development during the three-year performance period. The values reflect the share split effective as of March 2018. Performance period 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020 2019-2021 Number of incentive rights granted 4 857 000 4 332 000 3 609 000 5 108 000 (on 31.12.2019) Starting share price, EUR 15.82 16.19 22.58 16.76 Measurement period for comparison Q4 2018 + 100% of Q4 2019 + 100% of Q4 2020 + 100% of Q4 2021 + 100% of share price dividends paid dividends paid dividends paid dividends paid Maximum value per incentive right, 4.61 6.07 8.47 6.56 EUR Final comparison share price, EUR 15.79 9.57 Final value per incentive right, EUR 0.00 0.00 Scheme payment date February 2019 February 2020 February 2021 February 2022 The share issue without payment (share split) approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591 723 390. The figures in the above table have been restated accordingly. In January 2020, the Board of Directors decided on the long-term incentive scheme for 2020-2022. The scheme comprises 8,788,000 incentive rights. The reward is paid in shares. It is based on the share price development during a three-year period, with a starting share price of EUR 11.01. The reward cannot exceed EUR 4.31 per incentive right, and it takes into account 100% of dividends paid out during the performance period and reinvested in the company’s shares. The scheme will be due for payment in February 2023. Shar Sharee ownership Boar Board d of Management's shar sharee ownership in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä on 31 December 2019 Board of Management No. of shares Jaakko Eskola 41 739 Change in 2019 0 Arjen Berends 0 Change in 2019 0 Alid Dettke 0 Change in 2019 0 Kari Hietanen 15 633 Change in 2019 0 Roger Holm 11 796 Change in 2019 0 Atte Palomäki 14 493 Change in 2019 0 Marco Wirén 20 184 Change in 2019 0 Evaluation The Board of Directors monitors the Group’s shortand long-term incentive schemes and evaluates the achievement of the targets on which they are based. The incentive schemes for 2019 were found to be well balanced and in accordance with market practices. The Board of Directors was satisfied that the pay-out outcome was appropriate given the company's performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 123 Anchor Remuneration of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Annual General Meeting annually decides on the fees to be paid to the members of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. The Annual General Meeting approved the following fees to the members of the Board of Directors for 2019: • to the ordinary members EUR 70,000/year • to the deputy chairman EUR 105,000/year • to the chairman EUR 140,000/year Approximately 40% of the annual fee is paid in Wärtsilä shares. In addition, each member will be paid EUR 750 per board meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double this amount. Furthermore, the chairman of the Audit Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 20,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 10,000 for the term; the chairman of the Remuneration Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 10,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 5,000 for the term; and the chairman of the Nomination Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 8,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 4,000 for the term. The members of Wärtsilä's Board of Directors were paid altogether EUR 718 thousand for the financial period that ended on 31 December 2019. The Board's members were not covered by the company's incentive schemes. Fees paid to the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors TEUR Attendance fees Yearly fees Total Board of Directors 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 32 35 140 140 172 175 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 12 14 105 105 117 119 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 22 26 70 70 92 96 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 11 12 70 70 81 82 Karin Falk 7 8 70 70 77 78 Johan Forssell 11 12 70 70 81 82 Risto Murto 21 24 70 70 91 94 Markus Rauramo 27 33 70 70 97 103 Fees paid in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä shar shares es in 2019 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 4 132 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 3 099 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 2 066 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 2 066 Karin Falk 2 066 Johan Forssell 2 066 Risto Murto 2 066 Markus Rauramo 2 066 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 124 Board Boar d of Dir ectors' shar Directors' sharee ownership in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä on 31 December 2019 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 65 392 Change in 2019 4 132 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 11 693 Change in 2019 3 099 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 34 503 Change in 2019 2 066 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 33 769 Change in 2019 3 666 Karin Falk 5 073 Change in 2019 2 066 Johan Forssell 5 073 Change in 2019 2 066 Risto Murto 11 013 Change in 2019 2 066 Markus Rauramo 18 675 Change in 2019 2 066 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 125 Anchor Risks and risk management The aim and principles of risk management Wärtsilä, like any other company, is exposed to various risks through the normal course of its activities. No business can be conducted without accepting a certain level of risk, and any expected gains from business activities are to be assessed against the involved risks. The purpose of risk management is to ensure that Wärtsilä is able to effectively execute its strategies and reach its targets, in the short-term as well as over the long run. The key is to identify those risks that have the potential to restrain the company from reaching its goals and to determine whether such risks are at an acceptable level. By definition, risk is the effect of uncertainty on objectives. An effect is a deviation from the expected, positive or negative; in other words, either a threat or an opportunity. Actions need to be taken to avoid, mitigate, transfer, or monitor identified risks, or to capture and utilise the opportunities. Wärtsilä's structured risk management process offers a set of reactive, proactive, protective, and preventive tools that are used not only to protect it against threats, but also to turn some of the risks into opportunities. Risks can only be managed if they are identified and understood in advance, if risk treatment plans for managing them are made, and if a process of continuous follow-up is in place for the related controls. Therefore, risk management is a central part of Wärtsilä's strategic and operational management. Risk management at Wärtsilä is a continuous process of analysing and managing all the opportunities and threats faced by the company in its efforts to achieve its goals and to ensure the continuity of the business. The basis for risk management is the lifecycle quality of Wärtsilä’s operations and products and the continuous, systematic loss prevention efforts at all levels of the Group, not only as an integrated part of management systems, but as part of every employee’s daily work. In the long-term, this is the only means for reducing overall risk related costs. The Businesses are responsible for the risks and rewards, and thus managing risks is the responsibility of Business Management teams and individual managers. The risk management process at Wärtsilä is embedded in Wärtsilä’s culture and practices and has been tailored to fit the business functions and processes of the organisation. The process can be seen as a continuous loop consisting of the repetitive steps of context establishment, risk assessment, risk treatment, communication and consultation, and finally monitoring and review. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 126 Implementation The Board of Directors and the Board of Management decide and set the guidelines on strategic matters. The Businesses are responsible for achieving their set strategic goals and for mitigating and managing their risks. The Corporate Risk Management function is part of Group Treasury, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The function is responsible for the risk reporting process and for conducting risk assessments with the Businesses and their underlying organisations. Risk mitigation actions are decided in the normal course of business. At its meetings, the Board of Management conducts annual management reviews for each Business and certain main support functions, addressing also their risks and risk mitigation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 127 Risk categories The relevant risks for Wärtsilä have been classified under four categories: strategic, operational, hazard, and financial risks. The potential loss expectancy is the highest with strategic and operational risks and the lowest with hazard and financial risks. The risks in most of the categories can have both upside and downside impacts. In this regard, hazard risks are an exception, since for them only a negative effect is possible. Risk radars are used to map the main risks within the risk categories. The Business-specific radars are consolidated into a single Group Risk Radar, which is presented to the Board of Directors and to the Audit Committee once a year. The purpose is to facilitate the discussion on risks and to give a quick overview of where priorities should lie in terms of risk management. Anchor Strategic risks Strategic risk assessment is part of the strategic planning process within the Group. At Wärtsilä, a risk is defined as strategic if it has the potential for imposing a long-term impact on the business. Business envir environment onment risks Business cycles in the global economy, and in customer industries, influence the demand for Wärtsilä's products, as well as its financial condition and operating result. The flexible manufacturing model based on capacity outsourcing, together with exposure to two separate end markets with different demand drivers and a large share of sales deriving from service activities, provides Wärtsilä with a certain level of stability in a cyclical market. Important economic matters that indirectly affect Wärtsilä, its clients, and suppliers include inter alia, the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions, and thus not only their capability but also their willingness to extend credit, the counter cyclical stimulus programmes adopted by governments – especially in the power and infrastructure sectors – the activities of multilateral institutions, such as the International Finance Corporation, the availability of export credit schemes and guarantees, and other such factors. Wärtsilä’s order book gives the company time to adapt to changes in market conditions. The implementation of more stringent environmental regulations is important for Wärtsilä’s future growth potential, since the company’s comprehensive portfolio of products and services allows customers to meet such stricter requirements. A delay in legislation implementation may present a risk to Wärtsilä. Possible changes in the legislation timeline and scope are, therefore, actively monitored. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 128 Market and customer risks In the energy markets, there is a global shift towards more sustainable energy sources. The penetration of renewables is increasing, and energy storage is emerging as a technology that changes the paradigm of power systems. Wärtsilä is strongly participating in these new market developments. Rapid deployment of new technologies can create new risks related to managing complex hybrid installations in an optimal way. Wärtsilä’s Greensmith Energy Management System (GEMS) is a proven, efficient, and stable software for controlling and operating complex systems, which gives Wärtsilä a competitive advantage in managing the related risks. The rapidly changing market environment has impacted the speed of customer decision-making, as the changes require updating their future portfolio strategies. Electricity demand is increasing, but fragile economic growth represents a risk for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and the implications of trade barriers create notable challenges to the demand environment. Significant currency fluctuations can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Low oil prices have a similar impact in the oil and gas producing countries. Orders are received from all geographic regions, thus limiting the risk of dependence on one particular market. Wärtsilä’s three customer segments, namely industrial customers, IPPs (independent power producers), and utilities, are also all represented in the order intake. In the shipbuilding industry, Wärtsilä is well represented in all the major markets and is active in all the main vessel segments. This, along with the company’s large product portfolio and global service network providing lifecycle support to the growing installed base of over 50,000 vessels and 10,000 customers, mitigates both geographical and single customer risks. Trade tensions, geopolitical uncertainty, and a possible slowdown in the global economy are affecting investment decisions in the shipping industry. While slow economic growth is also a risk to demand development in the service markets, the capital-intensive newbuilding market is more sensitive to changes in the economic outlook. Changes in the financial landscape have resulted in challenges to securing financing for newbuilds. Consolidation among the major shipyards is a potential risk that might result in lower capture rates in equipment sales due to changed relationships with the shipyards. The importance of fuel efficiency and environmental regulations are clearly visible, driving interest in environmental solutions, gas as a marine fuel, as well as electric and hybrid solutions. While concerns related to climate change require increasing efforts to reduce emissions within the shipping industry, uncertainties concerning developments in the regulatory environment may slow newbuild activity. Uncertainty concerning bunker fuel pricing and availability has delayed decision-making among customers for scrubber technology investments, despite supportive initial price indications. The deliveries of exhaust gas cleaning solutions, on the other hand, increased significantly, creating a recognised risk, namely to manage and deliver the demanded orders on time and with the required quality. The shortage of available shipyard capacity to install and commission scrubber retrofits is a risk in the form of delays in project deliveries. Digitalisation has become increasingly important for both the shipping and energy industries’ business and operating models. In accordance with its Smart Marine strategy, Wärtsilä continued to work towards the digital transformation of future shipping markets with the development of a digital strategy and by introducing new market offerings. These include initiatives such as Operim, which enables improvements in operational performance by means of continuous monitoring and the reporting of key performance indicators through enhanced use of data. In the power generation markets, energy management systems gain importance as renewable penetration grows. Wärtsilä’s advanced energy management software platform GEMS enables customers to remotely monitor individual systems or entire fleets, identifying and diagnosing equipment issues in real time, and extending system lifetime. Competitive situation and price risks In 2019, competition on those markets where Wärtsilä operates has increased. In large gas-fired projects, Wärtsilä faces competition from gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE and Siemens. In smaller gas power plant projects, and in the liquid fuel power plant market, the competitors are mainly other combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Energy Solutions, INNIO (previously GE Jenbacher), Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce. In Wärtsilä’s addressable market, i.e. the market for installations of up to 500 MW, orders for natural gas and liquid fuel power This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 129 plants totalled 11.6 GW during the twelve-month period ending in September. Wärtsilä’s market share was 17%. Wärtsilä’s success in the market can be attributed to its flexible power generation solution, which can be used in a broad range of different applications and power plant sizes. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. When it comes to servicing the energy markets, in line with the value-based offering concept, Wärtsilä continues to develop and offer a range of lifecycle services and asset management solutions aimed at optimising its customers’ power plants over their lifecycle. Such long-term service agreements not only ensure the power plant’s performance and protect the customer’s investment but bring stability to Wärtsilä as a service provider. Competition for energy services is fragmented, consisting mainly of individual local players. In the marine equipment markets, the competitive landscape became more consolidated in 2019 as a result of Kongsberg’s acquisition of Rolls-Royce’s Commercial Marine unit. The most significant competitors in the main engine markets are MAN Energy Solutions and Caterpillar (MAK). Wärtsilä has a strong position in medium-speed main engines with a 45% market share in 2019. In auxiliary engines, Wärtsilä’s market share was 15%. In propulsion equipment, the competition is more fragmented and varies by product category. One of the main competitors for these products is Kongsberg. In environmental solutions, as well as in gas products, the markets are very fragmented. Alfa Laval and Evac are two of the main competitors in environmental solutions, while in the electrical and automation segment Wärtsilä faces competition from companies such as Kongsberg, GE, and Siemens. In marine services, Wärtsilä has no direct competitors capable of offering a similar portfolio of services from a single source. Price competition has intensified in the marine newbuild markets, partly due to lower vessel contracting volumes. The strategic move of becoming a systems integrator with automation and ship design capability has proven to be an important differentiator in the competition for new projects with larger and more value-adding scopes. The concept of selling packaged solutions reduces price volatility. Political and legislative risks Wärtsilä is present in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries and has delivered power plants to 180 countries. Political developments and changes in legislation can have a significant impact on Wärtsilä’s business. Wärtsilä actively monitors political and legal developments in its markets and engages in a dialogue with various official bodies on projects of importance to its operations and intellectual property rights. Much of this engagement takes place through interest groups and trade organisations. The company monitors political and legislative changes at both the corporate and subsidiary levels. Trade related tensions have increased globally in 2019, and the uncertainty related to trade relations is now a more noteworthy risk on the marketplace than before. The impact on Wärtsilä has materialized mainly in the form of delayed contract decisions and reduced demand for new vessels caused by the expected reduction in trade volumes between the USA and China. In recent years, there has been increased regulatory activity by different governments worldwide, which has led to the need for emphasising due internal processes to ensure compliance. As an example, the ongoing and changing trade sanctions were complied with and closely monitored during 2019. This continues to require internal efforts to ensure that adequate procedures are in place. Climate change and sustainability risks Wärtsilä has assessed its sustainability risks, including climate change risks, in both its strategic and operative risk assessments. The potential business risks related to sustainability, climate change, and Wärtsilä's products are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. The risks in environmental legislation changes are related to the complexity of the overall field of different emissions, the balance between commercially available fuels and their resulting emissions, available abatement technologies, the impact on overall energy efficiency, and the resulting financial feasibility of the various alternative ways to meet regulatory demands. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 130 Being at the forefront of technological developments mitigates sustainability risks and gives Wärtsilä many opportunities arising from tightening environmental regulations. Over the years, Wärtsilä has worked continuously to improve the efficiency of its products, while at the same time seeking ways to reduce emissions. The fuel flexibility of Wärtsilä's products enables the utilisation of various fuels, including gas and those from renewable sources, while their operational flexibility enables the installation of large capacity-based wind and solar energy systems without hampering the reliability of the electricity grid. Wärtsilä has entered both the hybrid energy and energy storage businesses, representing a further step in providing customers with sustainable innovations that reduce carbon emissions. Wärtsilä's technology also enables energy to be generated with a minimum use of water. The lack of fresh water is expected to be one of the major challenges facing the world in the future. In shipping, Wärtsilä can reduce the carbon footprint of vessels through optimised ship design, optimal propulsion solutions, and voyage management. Environmental solutions offer, among others, alternative technologies to reduce sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions and to treat waste and ballast water. Wärtsilä offers several retrofit solutions for the after-sales market to reduce emissions and to increase fuel efficiency. For more information, please see the Sustainability section in this annual report. Technology risks Wärtsilä aims to increase the competitiveness of its solutions and to manage technology risks and opportunities through solid R&D efforts and innovation. The development of new products is based on the strategic view of optimising lifecycle value for customers and on reducing the lifecycle impact on the environment of developed technologies and products. This is achieved with modern and sustainable power solutions through, for example, gas solutions, environmental technologies, ship design, as well as electrical and automation solutions. As a technology leader, Wärtsilä places strong emphasis on emissions control, enhancing efficiency and maintaining the cost competitiveness of its products. Connectivity and the utilisation of data to further optimise efficiency and unlock new customer value is becoming an increasingly important element of Wärtsilä’s development roadmap. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 131 Anchor Operational risks Operational risk management is part of the daily work of the Businesses. Opportunities and risks are identified, assessed, and managed on a daily basis and reported to, and managed by, the appropriate management level. The status of these opportunities and threats is reviewed on a periodic basis, and appropriate further actions are then taken. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 132 Manufacturing risk Wärtsilä constantly analyses its manufacturing footprint and capacity costs, including costs related to the supply chain. Risk assessments have been made for all the main delivery centres, and significant safety, environmental impact, and risk mitigation investments have been completed. Risk identification, assessment, and mitigation actions are executed on a regular basis as part of operational management. Management systems for quality, environmental, occupational health and safety, and other systems are utilised to improve productivity, while safety and business continuity plans have been implemented for the key delivery centres. Supplier and sub-contractor risk Wärtsilä’s supply management is integrated within the business lines. The aim is to work in partnership with the supplier base to create value for Wärtsilä’s customers by ensuring quality, on-time delivery, and the lowest total cost. In order to ensure coordinated interfaces and synergies for the cross-divisional supplier base, a category management structure has been in place since 2007. Indirect Purchasing remains a centralised function responsible for managing strategic sourcing activities for indirect materials and services in all businesses and support functions. The supply management units have a unified process for managing and controlling Wärtsilä’s supplier network and for verifying that the suppliers’ performance meets Wärtsilä’s expectations. Supplier performance is, therefore, continuously measured. A key activity in managing business continuity planning is the regular assessment of business interruption risks, which is carried out in cooperation with the company’s suppliers. Several supplier risk audits have been completed jointly with the insurer as one means of mitigating risk. These audits are now one of the regular tasks for the supply category managers and the Risk Management function. Wärtsilä has developed its supply related activities by creating close collaboration and long-term relationships with its main suppliers. This cooperation creates a common view towards values and goals, which in turn supports the management of Wärtsilä’s strategic risks. To further mitigate supplier and sub-contractor risks, a comprehensive follow-up of suppliers’ credit worthiness has been established. Supplier related risks for key components are mitigated through dualor multi-sourcing. Wärtsilä uses an online solution for supply chain risk identification, assessment, and monitoring. More than 2,000 suppliers have been, and continue to be, followed through the system. The solution includes a selection of key criteria defined by Wärtsilä, against which the situation of each supplier is continuously measured. Any This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 133 discrepancies are automatically reported to the responsible category manager, who is responsible for ensuring that the necessary steps, if any, are taken to mitigate the risk. A supply chain cyber security assessment process was introduced in 2019, with the focus of covering a variety of suppliers, from large key suppliers to smaller low-spend suppliers. Until now, only a limited number of suppliers has undergone this assessment, with further assessments to be conducted during the coming year. Lifecycle quality of pr products oducts and pr product oduct liability risk Wärtsilä’s quality strategy focuses on preventive and proactive actions to deliver increased customer satisfaction, shorter lead times, and a reduced number of claims. To realise Wärtsilä’s quality vision, the strategy has been focused towards effective project risk management, strengthened awareness, and ownership supported by a streamlined product improvement process. The launching of new products always involves risks. In the R&D process, several risk management techniques are applied, including the risk elimination tool FMEA (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis) and in-house validation testing. Wärtsilä seeks to control quality risks by monitoring the incoming quality of the supply chain and by designing and manufacturing its products with all due care. A non-destructive robotic ultrasonic data analysis procedure, which replaces manual scanning of critical components, enhances the probability of detecting imperfections in components with a complex geometry. Wärtsilä applies a GATE model in order to control the product development process. Initially, only a limited release of new products is allowed, and via the gate approach, full release authority is given to the sales organisations only after testing and further validation has been completed. Wärtsilä seeks to control its manufacturing quality risks by applying several assurance and quality control principles. The level of quality assurance and control requirements are determined based on component criticality, and they are applied throughout the delivery chain. Requirement management is used to assess components systematically, enabling the allocation of resources and efforts according to the component criticality. The ranking criteria indicates the consequence if a component fails. The objective is to improve quality proactively within product development, supply management, and the entire delivery process from order intake to commissioning. Nonconformity management at Wärtsilä focuses on developing and improving operations by registering and handling detected nonconformities. This ensures that customers receive products and services according to the agreed scope and specifications. Efficient handling, monitoring, and reviewing of nonconformities is crucial for proper risk management and mitigation. Product improvement management (issue resolution) projects are prioritised based on risk and importance. This happens when Wärtsilä identifies a technical issue according to claim statistics, customer feedback, or internal analysis, and the case fulfils the risk categorisation for a non-isolated case. The business lines are responsible for supporting customers in all warranty issues. This offers a feedback loop from the field to production and R&D, while taking care of the customers’ installations throughout their lifecycle. The company makes warranty provisions to cover any costs that may arise after product delivery. The company’s product liability insurance covers unexpected damages. Wärtsilä seeks to continuously improve the quality of its products and services through the adoption of best industry practices and good governance. Management at all levels is responsible for the quality of output from their organisations and is accountable for ensuring that appropriate review and feedback mechanisms are in place. The centralised Wärtsilä Quality function is responsible for coordinating quality activities across the businesses and for ensuring that senior governance mechanisms are in place and effective. Wärtsilä's business level management systems are certified in accordance with the 2015 standard revisions (ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015), with an emphasis on a risk-based approach and proactive risk and opportunity management. Migration to the new 45001:2018 standard version will be completed during 2020. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 134 Contractual risks Wärtsilä’s equipment business includes projects and deliveries of various sizes. The most substantial orders concern power plants delivered on a complete EPC (engineering, procurement, and construction) basis and major marine and energy delivery contracts requiring extensive coordination, efficient risk management, and the integration of contracted systems and solutions. In 2019, Wärtsilä’s operating result was weakened by unforeseen cost overruns in a handful of complex marine and energy projects. A review of the projects in question revealed incorrect underlying assumptions in cost estimates, insufficient risk identification, and supplier related challenges. Corrective actions have been taken to prevent similar issues from occurring in the future. These include changes to the organisational structure, processes, and technical assessment controls. Furthermore, supplier approval has been tightened, new tools introduced, and training enhanced. With these measures, Wärtsilä aims to improve the quality of its project execution activities and to ensure better upfront identification of risks and opportunities. The risk of product liability claims is reduced through the lifecycle quality of the products and work, starting from the initial design, through all stages of the production process, to the eventual field service activities, and the use of standard sales contracts, including the establishment of a contract review process. In activities related to lifecycle support, contractual risk is mainly related to long-term agreements and service projects, such as engine upgrades, retrofits, or modifications. In large scale performance-based agreements, the recognised contractual risk is related to the ability to manage and maintain assets as planned. Risk of non-compliance, corruption and fraud Wärtsilä complies with the law and its own internal policies and procedures everywhere the company does business. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is the key guideline for all employees globally. Wärtsilä is committed to high ethical standards and integrity, and to preventing corruption and violations of the principles set forth in the Code of Conduct, as well as in Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption and Compliance Reporting policies. Compliance processes are embedded in all of the Businesses, and the responsibility for compliance and awareness of ethics and integrity is that of all Wärtsilä employees. Wärtsilä is fully committed to compliance with anti-corruption laws and statutes. Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption Policy absolutely forbids any kind of corruption and bribery, and the top management of the company has a zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption and fraud. The Compliance function promotes Group-wide compliance and continuously strives to raise awareness of the risk of corruption and bribery and other misconduct. It is primarily responsible for creating and enforcing Group level policies and procedures, training programmes, misconduct incident reporting, internal compliance investigations, as well as for managing the consequences of misconduct, and reporting. The continuous development of Wärtsilä's compliance programme and nurturing the company’s commendable ethical culture are pivotal tasks for the Compliance function. Moreover, Compliance supports and cooperates with the Businesses and other corporate functions in their risk management efforts. Wärtsilä has a Group-wide programme for strengthening its Code of Conduct, which aims to increase the employees’ understanding as to how the Code of Conduct impacts everyday activities at all Wärtsilä locations, wherever Wärtsilä operates. While Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates, Wärtsilä maintains its highly ethical practices at all times. Full compliance with its stringent anti-corruption regime, including policies to prevent the corruption and bribery risk of third parties, is demanded by Wärtsilä. Cyber and information security rrelated elated risks Wärtsilä has an experienced and professional internal organisation dedicated to the effective management of cyber security risks across Wärtsilä’s portfolio. This organisation, in cooperation with Wärtsilä’s Business Management teams, delivers cyber security operational support. It also provides the associated governance, risk management, and assurance required to support and enable safe and secure internal operations, while ensuring that the Businesses’ customer offerings are compliant with the relevant current and future regulations and applicable standards. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 135 The Wärtsilä cyber security governance model aligns closely with overall business risk management and supports the Businesses in identifying and prioritising their respective cyber security risks. The cyber security team works seamlessly with physical security colleagues across Wärtsilä to ensure the effective and coordinated delivery of holistic security solutions for both the cyber and physical domains. Information security risks related to Wärtsilä’s internal operations are continually identified, analysed, and evaluated. The attendant mitigation activities are executed across Wärtsilä’s networks, endpoints, systems, and services. The 24/7 Wärtsilä Security Operations Centre continually monitors the perimeter to internal systems and closely observes the external threat exposure level, whilst providing a coordinated response to identified information security incidents, as and when they may occur. The effective mitigation of risks associated with cyber security hygiene throughout Wärtsilä are continually and progressively reinforced through coordinated and complementary cyber security training, awareness initiatives, and extensive communications. This involves all Wärtsilä corporate functions and the Businesses. Wärtsilä has identified the need to mitigate the cyber security risks associated with its supply chain. The company is addressing this need through a comprehensive and risk-based approach, involving both increased opportunities for remote and objective assessment of some suppliers, as well as increased levels of communication with others. Recognising the ever-present and increasing cyber security risks to customers in the maritime industry, Wärtsilä has developed, in close partnership with a leading cyber security provider, a world-leading maritime cyber emergency response capability based in Singapore. This service puts thought leadership into tangible action and places Wärtsilä at the forefront in mitigating the cyber security risks to its customers. In 2019, Wärtsilä became one of the founding members of the Operational Technology Cyber Security Alliance (OTCSA) intended to provide a technical and organisational framework for safe and secure operational technology. This new alliance aims to bridge dangerous gaps in security for operational technology and industrial control systems. As cyber criminals are seen to increasingly target operational technology used to control physical equipment like those found in factories, power plants, ships, or ports, finding ways to collaborate with the ecosystem of suppliers, customers, and other partners, even competitors, is the best way to manage the continuously evolving threat landscape. Privacy and data pr protection otection risks EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets out the general framework for Wärtsilä’s efforts in data protection. Wärtsilä has global privacy notices to inform its personnel, customers, vendors, other stakeholders, and interest groups about the processing of personal data. Data protection implementation is supported by and aligned with group-wide privacy policies and processes. Mandatory GDPR training is in place for employees processing personal data. Tailored data protection training is provided also for specific employee groups, such as management teams. Wärtsilä’s applies a risk-based approach to privacy and data protection and continues to take further actions to strengthen privacy and data protection implementation in order to mitigate risks. Commodity price risk Oil The direct effect of oil price changes on Wärtsilä's production is limited, with their impact being mainly demand related. Higher oil prices represent a risk for global economic growth and increase operating costs, especially in the shipping markets. However, they also stimulate investments in exploration and production for oil and gas, both on land and offshore. Furthermore, high oil prices increase investments in gas carriers, gas-based power plants and, increasingly, also in gas-fuelled vessels. Low oil prices can delay investment decisions in oil producing countries and regions, as well as in the offshore industry. Wärtsilä is a global company involved in different shipping and power plant segments where oil price changes can have an opposing impact on demand drivers. This position is further diversified by the increasing importance of natural gas in Wärtsilä's business. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 136 Metals Metal prices have an indirect effect on the component cost of Wärtsilä’s products. Some key components are sourced with long-term contracts, and raw material price volatility is, therefore, limited. Electricity Electricity prices have no substantial impact on Wärtsilä’s production costs. In the energy markets, high electricity prices support investments in new capacity by utility customers. Lower grid electricity prices do not favour investments in their own generating capacity by industrial customers. Anchor Hazar Hazard d risks Occupational health and safety systems, travel safety instructions, and crisis management guidelines are aimed at protecting Wärtsilä employees. Appropriate insurances are in place for the personnel, and to emphasise the importance of employee safety, the Board of Management has decided on a corporate level target of zero lost-time injuries. A specific Zero Injury project exists for this purpose, and the target is included in the company’s sustainability programme. During 2019, the near-miss reporting system, WeCare, was actively used worldwide in order to manage information related to incidents that can threaten the safety, health, and security of the company’s employees and operations, as well as the environment. This IT solution provides a guide for identifying the causes of incidents and for taking all appropriate actions in a systematic way. Environmental management systems are in place to mitigate environmental hazard risks. Wärtsilä maintains a register of all properties used and gives guidelines for the purchase, sale, rental, and security of premises, and uses external advisors for environmental audits. None of Wärtsilä’s major facilities are located in natural disaster areas. Catastrophic peril related scenarios are identified and, where necessary, exposures are mitigated by, for example, elevating sites above the flood risk level or by constructing flood dikes. For Wärtsilä’s main sites, business impact analyses have been conducted and continuity plans created to cover both property and business interruption risks. The risks that Wärtsilä is unable to influence through its own efforts are transferred, whenever possible, to insurance companies. Wärtsilä uses appropriate insurance policies to cover indemnity risks related to its personnel, assets, and business interruptions, including supplier triggered interruptions, as well as third-party and product liability. Wärtsilä has established its own captive insurance company, Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd. This risk management tool only insures Wärtsilä’s own risks. For insurance technical reasons, the company is located on the island of Guernsey. Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd’s results are consolidated into the corporation’s books and are subject to normal taxation in Finland. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 137 Anchor Financial risks Wärtsilä's financial risks are presented in the notes to the financial statements, Note 33. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Governance 138 Anchor Risk pr profiles ofiles and rresponsibilities esponsibilities Low High Risks Risk profile Policy or other guideline Responsible body Strategic Wärtsilä's strategy and business Wärtsilä's Board of Directors risks plans (BoD), Board of Management (BoM) and Businesses Business Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses environment plans risk Market and Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses customer risk plans Competitive Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses situation and plans price risk Political and Various guidelines and risk Businesses, R&D, Risk legislative risk management policy management (RM) and Legal functions Climate QHSE policy, Code of Conduct, Businesses, R&D and change and management systems (ISO 14001 Sustainability function sustainability & OHSAS 18001) risk Technology Patents and industrial rights, Businesses and R&D risk product guarantees Operational Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses risks plans Manufacturing Production systems, Business Manufacturing and risk Continuity Plan Businesses Supplier and Supplier requirement and supplier Businesses and Supply subcontractor management system, Business Management risk Continuity Plan Lifecycle Management systems (ISO 9001), Manufacturing, R&D, quality of safety instruction and manuals, risk Businesses, RM, Quality and products and management policy, R&D risk Legal functions product elimination instructions liability risk Contractual Standard contracts, Corporate Legal function and risks Sales Contracting Policy Businesses This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 139 Commodity Production cost control Businesses and Treasury price risk function Data security Data security principles and Cyber Businesses and IM function risk Security Strategy NonCode of Conduct, Anti-corruption Businesses and Compliance compliance policy, Compliance policy, Whistlefunction risk blowing channel Hazard risks Risk management policy and Businesses and RM function guidelines Personnel risk Management system (OHSAS Businesses, Human 18001), travel safety instructions, Resources, RM, EHS and crisis management guidelines, security functions near misses reporting and premises safety plans Natural Crisis management guidelines, Businesses and RM function catastrophes Business Continuity Plan Fire, cargo Management systems (ISO 14001 Businesses, RM and Real and other & OHSAS 18001), premises safety Estate functions accidents plan Financial Wärtsilä's strategy and business Businesses and Treasury risks plans function Foreign Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury exchange risk function Interest rate Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury risk function Liquidity and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury refinancing function risk Credit risk Credit and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury function Low High This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 140 Investors Shares 141 Shareholders 143 Wärtsilä on the capital markets 147 Analysts 149 Information for shareholders 150 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 141 Anchor Shar Shares es Wärtsilä Corporation's shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Large Cap list under the trading code WRT1V. At the end of the financial period 2019, the number of Wärtsilä shares totalled 591,723,390, and the share capital entered in the trade register was EUR 336,002,138.50. Wärtsilä has one share series, with each share entitling its holder to one vote at the General Meeting and to an equal dividend. Key figur figures es for the W Wärtsilä ärtsilä shar sharee 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings per share (EPS)* EUR 0.37 0.65 0.63 0.60 0.75 Book-value of equity per share* EUR 4.05 4.09 3.97 3.87 3.72 Dividend per share* EUR 0.481 0.48 0.46 0.43 0.40 Dividend per earnings % 130.81 73.7 70.8 72.8 53.3 Dividend yield % 4.91 3.5 2.6 3.0 2.8 Price per earnings (P/E) 26.6 21.4 27.0 23.8 18.8 Price to book-value (P/BV) 2.4 3.4 4.4 3.7 3.8 Adjusted number of shares* x 1 000 End of financial year 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 On average 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors * The figures in the comparison periods 2015-2017 have been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Wärtsilä's shar shares es on Nasdaq Helsinki Wärtsilä's share price decreased by 29.1% during 2019, while the OMX Helsinki Industrials and the OMX Helsinki Cap index increased by 25.9% and 14.8%, respectively. The highest quoted price for Wärtsilä's share during the financial period was EUR 15.56 and the lowest EUR 8.78. The closing price on 31 December 2019 was EUR 9.85. The volume weighted average price for the year was EUR 11.82. At year-end, Wärtsilä's market capitalisation was EUR 5,828 million. The volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 333,483,579 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 3,947 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, including Turquoise, BATS CXE and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges amounted to 229,045,024 shares. Further information on the company’s share price development can be found on Wärtsilä’s IR pages at www.wartsila.com/ investors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 142 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 143 Wärtsilä shar shareses on Nasdaq Helsinki 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Trading volume MEUR 3 947 4 754 4 800 3 826 4 529 Number of traded shares* x 1 000 333 484 278 938 268 222 296 611 341 211 Stock turnover % 55.0 47.1 45.3 50.1 80.0 Share price, high* EUR 15.56 19.88 20.77 14.48 14.99 Share price, low* EUR 8.78 12.75 13.97 11.30 11.07 Average share price* EUR 11.82 17.04 17.90 12.89 13.28 Share price at year-end* EUR 9.85 13.90 17.53 14.23 14.05 Year-end market capitalisation MEUR 5 828 8 222 10 375 8 418 8 314 * The figures in the comparison periods 2015-2017 have been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Anchor Shar Shareholders eholders Wärtsilä had 76,889 shareholders at the end of the financial period 2019. Foreign shareholding, including nominee registered shares, represented 52.8% (54.5) of the total shareholder base at the end of the period, while Finnish retail investors represented 20.4% (17.9). Investors in Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States held the largest percentage of foreign shares. Further information concerning the company’s shareholder base development can be found on Wärtsilä’s IR pages at www.wartsila.com/investors. Ownership structur structuree on 31 December 2019 Group Number of shareholders % Number of shares % Private corporations 2 840 3.7 26 018 199 4.4 Banks and insurance companies 125 0.2 23 504 765 4.0 Public sector entities 47 0.1 69 807 761 11.8 Non-profit organisations 1 020 1.3 39 377 904 6.7 Households 72 383 94.1 120 630 442 20.4 Outside Finland 474 0.6 111 508 050 18.8 Nominee registered 200 876 269 33.9 Total 76 889 100.0 591 723 390 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 144 Division of shar shares es on 31 December 2019 Number of shares Number of shareholders % Number of shares % 1-100 24 012 31.2 1 087 193 0.2 101-1 000 33 520 43.6 13 496 821 2.3 1 001-10 000 16 841 21.9 50 729 613 8.6 10 001-100 000 2 300 3.0 55 657 442 9.4 100 001-1 000 000 183 0.2 45 140 133 7.6 1 000 001-10 000 000 30 0.0 72 715 976 12.3 10 000 0013 0.0 152 096 118 25.7 Nominee registered 200 800 094 33.9 Total 76 889 100.0 591 723 390 100.0 Wärtsilä's 50 major shar shareholders eholders on 31 December 2019, excluding nominee rregister egistered ed Owner Shares % 1 Invaw Invest AB 104 711 363 17.7 2 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 31 768 252 5.4 3 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 15 616 503 2.6 4 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 6 400 000 1.1 5 Virala Oy Ab 5 900 000 1.0 6 The Social Insurance Institution of Finland 5 807 730 1.0 7 Svenska litteratursällskapet i Finland r.f. 5 180 677 0.9 8 Holdix Oy Ab 4 558 714 0.8 9 Turret Oy Ab 4 102 162 0.7 10 State Pension Fund of Finland 4 020 000 0.7 11 Keva 3 736 467 0.6 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 145 12 Jenny and Antti Wihuri Foundation 2 700 000 0.5 13 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 2 374 505 0.4 14 The Finnish Cultural Foundation 2 207 497 0.4 15 Schweizerische Nationalbank 2 028 124 0.3 16 Op-Suomi -sijoitusrahasto 1 801 541 0.3 17 Oy Ingman Finance Ab 1 709 000 0.3 18 Nordea Allemansfond Alfa 1 614 914 0.3 19 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Pro Suomi 1 598 317 0.3 20 Holding Manutas Oy 1 540 000 0.3 21 Rantanen Tuula Anneli 1 523 798 0.3 22 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf 1 434 600 0.2 23 The Signe and Ane Gyllenberg foundation 1 400 000 0.2 24 Blåberg Olli Edvard 1 220 000 0.2 25 Sr Danske Invest Suomi Osake 1 198 298 0.2 26 Sijoitusrahasto Evli Eurooppa 1 194 681 0.2 27 Louise och Göran Ehrnrooth Stiftelse 1 143 642 0.2 28 Bergsrådinnan Sophie von Julins Stiftelse sr 1 129 518 0.2 29 Veritas Pension Insurance Company Ltd 1 089 966 0.2 30 Nordea Swedish Stars 1 038 709 0.2 31 Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf Inez och Julius Polins Fond 1 023 600 0.2 32 Oy Julius Tallberg Ab 1 021 740 0.2 33 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Suomi Passiivinen 1 017 776 0.2 34 Seb Finlandia Optimized Low Carbon 956 883 0.2 35 Åbo Akademi Foundation 894 947 0.2 36 Fromond Elsa Margaretha Louise 860 800 0.1 37 William Thurings Stiftelse 840 380 0.1 38 Stockmann Marita 813 678 0.1 39 Gripenberg Gerda Margareta Lindsay Db 808 000 0.1 40 Livränteanstalten Hereditas 755 470 0.1 41 Von Fieandt Berndt Johan 706 146 0.1 42 Brita Maria Renlund Foundation 700 000 0.1 43 Sijoitusrahasto Seligson & Co 658 350 0.1 44 Von Julin Sofia Margareta Db 646 000 0.1 45 Folkhälsans Forskningsstiftelse Kansanterveyden tutkimussäätiö 639 404 0.1 46 Sijoitusrahasto Aktia Capital 600 000 0.1 47 Ella and Georg Ehrnrooth Foundation 553 161 0.1 48 Markkola Leena 541 661 0.1 49 Barry Staines Linoleum Oy 510 000 0.1 50 Op-Henkivakuutus Oy 507 995 0.1 Total 236 804 969 40.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 146 Changes in ownership – flagging notifications Under the provisions of the Finnish Securities Markets Act, shareholders of listed companies have an obligation to notify both the Finnish Financial Supervision Authority and the listed company of changes in their holdings when crossing predefined thresholds. The table below summarises the flagging notifications received by Wärtsilä during 2019. Further information can be found on Wärtsilä’s website at www.wartsila.com/investors/shareholders/ flaggings. Transaction date Shareholder Threshold Direct holding, % Total holding, % 22.2.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.94 5.35 26.2.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.07 5.42 22.3.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.82 5.38 26.4.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.02 5.18 3.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.95 5.18 7.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.00 5.23 10.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.98 5.23 21.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.02 5.16 24.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.97 5.16 31.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% Below 5% Below 5% 11.6.2019 Fiskars Corporation Below 5% Below 5% Below 5% Management holdings The members of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, and the corporations under their control, owned altogether 226,930 shares in Wärtsilä Corporation at the end of 2019, which represents 0.04% of the stock and voting rights. Further details on the Board of Directors' and Board of Management’s ownership of Wärtsilä's shares can be found in the Corporate Governance section. Authorisations granted to the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Annual General Meeting, held on 7 March 2019, authorised the Board of Directors to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 57,000,000 of the company's own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to issue either new shares or transfer own shares held by the company. The maximum number of shares to be so issued shall not exceed 57,000,000. The Board of Directors was authorised to issue the shares for consideration or without consideration. The Board of Directors was also authorised to issue the shares in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights by way of a directed issue, if there is a weighty financial reason for the company to do so. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to issue shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 8 March 2018 to distribute the company’s own shares. The BoarBoard ectors' dividend pr Directors' d of Dir proposal oposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0,48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2019. The dividend will be paid in two equal instalments. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 147 Anchor Wärtsilä on the capital markets Wärtsilä’s Investor Relations (IR) team, consisting of the CEO, CFO, Vice President for Investor Relations, and IR Manager, participated in over 310 investor meetings during 2019. The team also maintained regular contact with equity research analysts throughout the year. Meetings with institutional investors were conducted in North America, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, and in the Nordic countries. During the year, Wärtsilä’s IR team held roadshows on 20 days and attended eight investor conferences. Wärtsilä also organised a site visit to CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd (CWEC), the joint venture company formed between Wärtsilä and China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC). CWEC opened its production facility at Lingang, Shanghai, China, in early 2017. The facility produces state-of-the-art Wärtsilä diesel and dual-fuel engines and employs an advanced real-time data collection and visualisation system to reduce risks and increase efficiency. Wärtsilä's Capital Markets Day was held in November in Helsinki. The presentation topics covered the operating environment, progression towards financial targets, strategic focus areas for the Energy and Marine businesses, and growth opportunities for the coming years. Furthermore, there was an external speaker from Bloomberg New Energy Finance sharing their view on the energy market outlook. The event was well-appreciated by 60 institutional investors, equity analysts, and bankers in attendance. In addition, 160 persons participated via webcast. Wärtsilä's Investor Relations policy The ultimate objective of Wärtsilä's Investor Relations is to produce accurate, sufficient, and up-to-date information regarding the development of Wärtsilä's business operations, strategy, markets, and financial position. This is to ensure that the capital markets have the relevant information concerning Wärtsilä in order to determine the fair value of the company's shares. To achieve this objective, Wärtsilä publishes annually two interim reports, a half-year financial report, a financial statements bulletin, an annual report, and stock exchange releases. Furthermore, Wärtsilä's management conducts regular discussions with analysts and investors, both in Finland and abroad. Wärtsilä's web pages serve as an archive for all current and historical data on factors affecting the value of its shares. Pr Prospects ospects Guidance on Wärtsilä's prospects is published in the financial statements bulletin, in the half-year financial report, and in the interim reports. The most recently published prospect statement is repeated in the annual report. The published prospect statement consists of expectations regarding demand development in Wärtsilä's markets, and it is approved by the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä does not publish quarterly result forecasts. Should there be a change in business circumstances that could affect the prospects, Wärtsilä will publish changes to the prospects in accordance with prevailing regulations. Analyst rreports eports Wärtsilä will review, upon request by an analyst, his or her earnings model or report only for factual accuracy, or for information that is in the public domain. Wärtsilä does not comment on, or take any responsibility for, estimates or forecasts published by capital market representatives. Silent period Wärtsilä observes a three-week silent period preceding the publication of its results to prevent the revealing of unpublished financial information. During this period, the company's representatives do not meet with investors or analysts or comment on its financial position. Disclosur Disclosuree policy and financial communications Wärtsilä discloses information on its targets, financial position, and business operations in an open, timely, truthful, and systematic manner so as to enable stakeholders to form a true and fair view of the company. Wärtsilä publishes This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 148 stock exchange releases, press releases, and trade press releases. Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries publish press releases with local relevance. Matters that contain inside information and may have a material impact on the value of the company’s financial instruments are published as stock exchange releases. Press releases contain information on events relating to Wärtsilä’s normal business operations, which are assessed to be of general interest for investors and media. Releases to the trade press provide more detailed information on Wärtsilä’s products and technologies. All stock exchange releases are published in Finnish, Swedish, and English. Press releases are published in English and can also be published in Finnish and Swedish. Trade press releases are published in English, and local releases in the local language. All releases are available on Wärtsilä's website immediately following publication. Contacts Relations with the company's investors and analysts are handled by Natalia Valtasaari, Vice President, Investor Relations, together with the IR team. General enquiries can be sent to investor.relations@wartsila.com. Natalia VValtasaari altasaari Vice President, Investor Relations Tel. +358 10 709 5637 natalia.valtasaari@wartsila.com Emilia Rantala Manager, Investor Relations Tel. +358 10 709 1114 emilia.rantala@wartsila.com Alexandra Carlzén Investor Relations Coordinator Tel. +358 10 709 5445 alexandra.carlzen@wartsila.com Wärtsilä's corporate communications are the responsibility of Atte Palomäki, Executive Vice President, Communications, Branding & Marketing. Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications, Branding & Marketing Tel. +358 10 709 5599 atte.palomaki@wartsila.com This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 149 Anchor Analysts To the best of Wärtsilä’s knowledge, the below listed brokers and financial analysts follow the company’s development on their own initiative. They have analysed Wärtsilä’s performance and drawn up reports and comments. As a result, they are able to evaluate the company as an investment target. Wärtsilä takes no responsibility for the opinions expressed. Company Analyst Contact ABG Sundal Collier AB Anders Idborg anders.idborg@abgsc.se +46 8 566 286 74 AlphaValue Mohit Rathi m.rathi@alphavalue.eu +91 12 0450 8011 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Alexander Virgo alexander.virgo@baml.com +44 20 7996 1221 Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Finland Tom Skogman tom.skogman@carnegie.fi Branch +358 9 6187 1234 Citi Edward edward.maravanyika@citi.com Maravanyika +44 20 7986 4071 Credit Suisse Max Yates max.yates@credit-suisse.com +44 20 7883 8501 Danske Bank A/S, Helsinki Branch Antti Suttelin antti.suttelin@danskebank.com +358 10 236 4708 DNB Bank ASA Tomi Railo tomi.railo@dnb.no +44 20 7621 6085 Goldman Sachs International Jack O'Brien jack.obrien@gs.com +44 20 7552 2998 Handelsbanken Capital Markets Timo Heinonen tihe03@handelsbanken.fi +358 10 444 2483 HSBC Bank plc Sean McLoughlin sean.mcloughlin@hsbcib.com +44 20 7991 3464 Inderes Erkki Vesola erkki.vesola@inderes.com +358 50 5495 512 JPMorgan Cazenove Andreas Willi andreas.p.willi@jpmorgan.com +44 20 7134 4569 Kepler Cheuvreux Johan Eliason jeliason@keplercheuvreux.com +46 8 723 5100 Morgan Stanley Robert J. Davies robert.j.davies@morganstanley.com +44 20 7425 2057 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Investors 150 Nordea Markets Manu Rimpelä manu.rimpela@nordea.com +358 9 530 05172 OP Financial Group Kim Gorschelnik kim.gorschelnik@op.fi +358 10 252 4351 Pareto Öhman Anders Roslund anders.roslund@paretosec.com +46 8 402 5288 RBC Capital Markets Sebastian Kuenne sebastian.kuenne@rbccm.com +44 20 7429 8932 SEB, Helsinki Branch Antti Kansanen antti.kansanen@seb.fi +358 9 6162 8724 UBS Deutschland AG Sven Weier sven.weier@ubs.com +49 69 1369 8278 Anchor Information for shar shareholders eholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation will take place on Thursday, 5 March 2020, beginning at 3 p.m., at Messukeskus, address: Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland (Messukeskus Siipi entrance). Right to attend Shareholders registered no later than 24 February 2020 in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Notification of attendees Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting are required to inform the company thereof no later than 4 p.m. on 2 March 2020 either by e-mail, on the company’s website www.wartsila.com/agm_register, by telephone, or by regular mail. Letters and e-mails informing of participation must reach the company before the notification period expires at 4 p.m. on 2 March 2020. Letters authorising a proxy to exercise a shareholder's voting right at the Annual General Meeting should also reach the company before the notification period expires. Registration: Wärtsilä Corporation Share Register P.O. Box 1834 FI-00080 WÄRTSILÄ Finland Telephone: +358 10 709 5282, between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. (noon) on weekdays E-mail: yk@wartsila.com Internet: www.wartsila.com/agm_register Payment of dividend The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0.48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2019. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 151 The first instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date 9 March 2020. The payment date proposed by the Board for this instalment is 16 March 2020. The second instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date, which, together with the payment date, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 8 September 2020. The dividend record date for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 10 September 2020 and the dividend payment date 17 September 2020. Stock exchange rreleases eleases Wärtsilä's stock exchange releases are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website at www.wartsila.com/media/news-releases. Anchor Financial calendar 2020 Annual Report 2019 on Tuesday, 11 February 2020 Interim Report January-March 2020 on Tuesday, 21 April 2020 Half-year Financial Report January-June 2020 on Friday, 17 July 2020 Interim Report January-September 2020 on Friday, 23 October 2020 Financial Statements Bulletin January-December 2020 on Thursday, 28 January 2021 Annual reports, interim reports, half-year reports, and financial statements bulletins are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. Wärtsilä’s financial calendar can be found on the company’s investor pages on www.wartsila.com/investors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 152 Financial review Board of Directors' report 155 Business model 155 Strategy 155 The year 2019 157 Wärtsilä's prospects 169 Dividend proposal 170 Five years in figures 171 Quarterly figures 172 Calculations of financial ratios 173 Financial statements 176 Consolidated financial statements 176 Consolidated statement of income 176 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 177 Consolidated statement of financial position 178 Consolidated statement of cash flows 180 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 182 Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 200 1. Segment information 200 2. Acquisitions 203 3. Disposals 206 4. Assets held for sale 206 5. Disaggregation of revenue 207 6. Other operating income 208 7. Material and services 208 8. Employee benefit expenses 208 9. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 209 10. Other operating expenses 209 11. Financial income and expenses 210 12. Income taxes 210 13. Earnings per share 211 14. Intangible assets 212 15. Property, plant and equipment 215 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 153 16. Leases 216 17. Investments in associates and joint ventures 217 18. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 218 19. Inventories 220 20. Contract balances 221 21. Other receivables 221 22. Cash and cash equivalents 222 23. Net debt reconciliation 222 24. Deferred taxes 223 25. Pension obligations 224 26. Equity 227 27. Provisions 228 28. Financial liabilities 229 29. Other liabilities 230 30. Derivative financial instruments 230 31. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 231 32. Related party disclosures 232 33. Financial risks 233 34. Auditors' fees and services 240 35. Exchange rates 240 36. Subsidiaries 240 Parent company financial statements 244 Parent company income statement 244 Parent company balance sheet 245 Parent company cash flow statement 247 Accounting principles for the parent company 249 Notes to the parent company financial statements 251 1. Other operating income 251 2. Personnel expenses 251 3. Depreciation and amortisation 252 4. Financial income and expenses 253 5. Income taxes 253 6. Fixed assets 254 7. Non-current receivables 255 8. Current receivables from Group companies 255 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 255 10. Shareholders' equity 256 11. Liabilities 256 12. Accrued expenses and deferred income 257 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 154 13. Liabilities to Group companies 257 14. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 258 15. Derivative financial instruments 260 16. Financial risks 260 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 261 18. Related party loans and other commitments 261 19. Auditors' fees and services 261 Proposal of the Board 262 Auditor's report 263 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 155 Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors' ectors' rreport eport Anchor Business model Wärtsilä provides the marine and energy markets with smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. In the energy industry, Wärtsilä offers flexible power plants as well as energy management and storage systems on an equipment only or turnkey delivery basis. The marine offering consists of power, voyage, and processing solutions. Wärtsilä has the capabilities needed to combine its marine products into larger integrated systems and solutions. Wärtsilä’s portfolio of services ranges from spare parts and technical expertise, to lifecycle solutions ensuring a maximised installation lifetime, increased efficiency, and guaranteed performance. The company aims at maximising environmental and economic performance by emphasising sustainable, data-driven innovation and total efficiency. To support its geographically dispersed customer base, Wärtsilä’s sales and service network covers in excess of 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä operates primarily through its subsidiaries and strategic joint ventures. The company’s manufacturing model is assembly based, thus emphasising the importance of developing long-term relationships with its global network of suppliers, which consists of approximately 1,250 direct global suppliers. Wärtsilä’s personnel is made up of approximately 19,000 employees comprising roughly 140 nationalities. By recruiting and retaining the best talent, Wärtsilä is able to be the most valued business partner to its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. Wärtsilä is committed to conducting its business in a responsible manner, and promotes responsible practices throughout its value chain. Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions. Wärtsilä's profitable growth ambitions are supported by its strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network. An integrated portfolio of services, systems, and products that covers customer needs throughout the full lifecycle positions Wärtsilä well to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. Emphasis is given to optimising performance through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions, and safety solutions, and by using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customer business decisions. The utilisation of connectivity and smart technologies plays a key role in the optimisation of assets and in providing strategic input to customers in order to enhance their business growth. Asset management will drive future growth in lifecycle solutions and enable new as-a-service business models. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation provides enhanced customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. With its flexible production and supply chain management, Wärtsilä constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency – often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. Investments in research and development, and specifically in digitalisation, create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening the company’s position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The focus on operational excellence ensures that Wärtsilä is a company easy to do business with and drives increased productivity and efficiencies for its customers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 156 Strategy implementation in 2019 2019 saw the introduction of several new concepts and solutions to support the realisation of Wärtsilä’s strategy. These included navigation solutions for the marine markets, a new hybrid solution for the energy markets that pairs engines with storage technology, as well as service solutions leveraging advanced diagnostics to optimise performance. Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine and Smart Energy initiatives resulted in a number of important orders that validated the commercial feasibility of this approach. Among the most notable of these orders was one to equip Anglo-Eastern’s fleet of over 600 vessels with a fleet optimisation solution. Wärtsilä also secured its first order for the SmartDock system, making it the world’s first commercially available auto-docking solution. The need for flexible power solutions to support the expansion of renewable energy and secure grid reliability was illustrated by the strong growth in energy storage and optimisation orders. Won contracts included the 100 MW/100 MWh total capacity energy storage project awarded to Wärtsilä in South East Asia. The energy storage system, which includes the advanced energy management software platform GEMS, will support the region in reducing its reliance on fossil fuels. Another order reflecting the benefits of flexibility was the contract awarded to Wärtsilä to supply a 200 MW engine power plant to Cambodia. In addition to adding much needed capacity to the grid, the plant will provide faststarting, balancing flexibility to enable the future integration of increased levels of renewable energy into the power system. Collaboration with industry stakeholders is an essential element in the development of technologies needed to meet the changing market requirements, and Wärtsilä signed several new partnership agreements during the year. Among these were agreements aimed at accelerating the development and commercialisation of renewable fuels in the energy markets, and joint initiatives to promote the decarbonisation of shipping. Several major milestones were reached during 2019 with regards to the construction of the Smart Technology Hub, a new centre of research, product development and production. The project progressed from planning to implementation, with excavation work and construction started in August, and the first partners selected for the Smart Partner Campus. Wärtsilä has continued its leadership development programmes in many areas. Increased emphasis is being placed on establishing virtual learning solutions, since these can ease and offer greater flexibility in accessing learning opportunities, while also saving time and cost. A new leadership development programme for senior managers was launched mid-2019, with the focus on creating a Wärtsilä culture that builds and sustains high performance. The programme contains elements related to leading high performing teams, leadership and performance excellence, and customer centricity. The health and safety of personnel is a priority for Wärtsilä, and zero lost-time injuries continues to be the company’s global target. Lost-time injury frequency was 2.25 in 2019, which represents a decrease of 10% compared to the previous year. Proactive measures to further strengthen the safety culture within Wärtsilä continued throughout the year. As a highlight, management safety walks increased by 56%, and near miss reporting by 14% compared to the previous year. Furthermore, altogether 3,900 persons completed ‘Champions in Safety’, a new training programme for front line employees. Wärtsilä’s fifth global safety day was arranged in March, the objective being to raise awareness of Wärtsilä’s lifesaving rules. Financial targets and outcome in 2019 Wärtsilä’s long-term financial target is to grow faster than global GDP, and to maintain its operating profit margin between 14% at the peak of the cycle and 10% at the trough. Furthermore, the target is to maintain gearing below 0.50, and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle. Wärtsilä’s net sales for 2019 was in line with that of the previous year, bringing Wärtsilä’s five-year compound annual growth rate to 2%. The global real GDP is estimated to have increased by 3% in 2019, giving a five-year compound annual growth rate of 1.9%. The comparable operating result amounted to EUR 457 million, which represents 8.8% of net sales. Profitability was below the long-term target, as cost overruns in a handful of complex marine and energy projects and lower than anticipated energy equipment deliveries weakened the operating result. Gearing increased to 0.30, largely due to the implementation of the new IFRS 16 Leases standard. Excluding the impact of This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 157 lease liabilities, gearing amounted to 0.22. The Board of Directors' proposed dividend of EUR 0.48 per share represents 130.8% of operational earnings. Target Development in 2019 Development in 2018 Net sales growth faster than global GDP 0% 5% increase Comparable operating result margin between 10% and 14% 8.8% 11.2% Gearing below 0.50 0.30 0.14 Dividend payment at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle 130.8%1 73.7% 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors Anchor The year 2019 Anchor Operating envir environment, onment, or order der intake, and or order der book Demand for Wärtsilä’s services and solutions during the period January-December 2019 was below that of the previous year. In the marine markets, equipment order intake was affected by fewer orders received for scrubber solutions and by the weak contracting environment in certain vessel segments. Delayed investment decisions burdened activity in the energy market throughout the year. The demand for services was, however, sound in both end-markets. Wärtsilä’s order intake for 2019 decreased by 16% to EUR 5,327 million (6,307) from the previous year, due to fewer equipment orders in both businesses. The book-to-bill ratio was 1.03 (1.22). Wärtsilä Marine accounted for 66% of the order intake and Wärtsilä Energy for 34%. Services related order intake increased by 3% to EUR 2,676 million (2,598). The total order book at the end of December decreased by 5% to EUR 5,878 million (6,166). Wärtsilä Marine accounted for 65% of the order book and Wärtsilä Energy for 35%. Anchor Net sales and operating rresult esult Wärtsilä’s net sales for 2019 were stable compared to the previous year, amounting to EUR 5,170 million (5,174). Increased marine equipment deliveries and growth in service volumes served to offset the decline in energy equipment deliveries. Wärtsilä Marine accounted for 64% of net sales and Wärtsilä Energy for 36%. Services related net sales increased by 3% to EUR 2,502 million (2,419). Adjusting for the effects of currency translation, services related net sales increased by 2%. Of Wärtsilä’s net sales, approximately 67% was EUR denominated, 20% USD denominated, with the remainder being split between several currencies. The operating result amounted to EUR 362 million (543) in the financial period, which represents 7.0% of net sales (10.5). The comparable operating result was EUR 457 million (577), or 8.8% of net sales (11.2). Items affecting comparability included costs of EUR 95 million (35). These consisted primarily of restructuring costs and additional costs related to the closure of the Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Company (WHEC) joint venture in South Korea. The comparable operating result for Wärtsilä Marine amounted to EUR 305 million (380), or 9.1% of net sales (13.5), while the comparable operating result for Wärtsilä Energy amounted to EUR 152 million (197), or 8.3% of net sales (8.4). The comparable adjusted EBITA was EUR 498 million (621), or 9.6% of net sales (12.0). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 41 million (43). The result figures include charges of EUR 152 million related to cost overruns in certain large and complex project deliveries in the Marine and Energy businesses. Of the total amount, EUR 51 million was recognised in Wärtsilä Marine and EUR 101 million in Wärtsilä Energy. Corrective actions taken to prevent similar issues from occurring in the future include introducing tighter controls on technical assessments and the supplier approval process, as well as strengthening the project management organisation. Financial items amounted to EUR -47 million (-40) during the period January-December. Net interest totalled EUR -12 million (-7). Profit before taxes amounted to EUR 315 million (502). The effective tax rate was burdened by tax charges related to previous financial periods. Taxes amounted to EUR 97 million (116), implying an effective tax This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 158 rate of 30.7% (23.1). Profit for the financial period amounted to EUR 218 million (386). Earnings per share were 0.37 euro (0.65), while the equity per share was 4.05 euro (4.09). Return on investment (ROI) was 11.5% (18.1), while return on equity (ROE) was 9.0% (16.1). Megawatts deliver delivered ed 2019 2018 Change Marine 1 505 1 087 38% Energy 2 072 3 706 -44% Wärtsilä total 3 577 4 793 -25% By joint ventures 432 756 -43% Deliveries total 4 009 5 549 -28% Anchor Financing and cash flow Wärtsilä’s cash flow from operating activities totalled EUR 232 million (470) in 2019. Cash flow weakened due to the decrease in operating result and the increase in working capital. The latter was largely related to the build-up of inventories for upcoming scrubber deliveries. Working capital totalled EUR 732 million (581) at the end of the financial period, a decrease of EUR 138 million from the end of September. Advances received at the end of the period totalled EUR 452 million (584). At the end of September, advances totalled EUR 609 million. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period amounted to EUR 369 million (487) and unutilised Committed Credit Facilities totalled EUR 640 million (640). Wärtsilä had interest-bearing debt totalling EUR 1,096 million (823) at the end of December. The increase in interestbearing debt is largely related to the inclusion of lease liabilities amounting to EUR 188 million on the balance sheet, as a result of the new IFRS 16 standard. The total amount of short-term debt maturing within the next 12 months was EUR 99 million. Long-term loans amounted to EUR 997 million. Net interest-bearing debt increased to EUR 726 million (333), due to weak cash flow and the implementation of IFRS 16. Gearing was 0.30 (0.14) and the solvency ratio was 40.8% (44.4). Excluding the impact of lease liabilities, gearing amounted to 0.22. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 159 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 160 Anchor Capital expenditur expendituree Capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment amounted to EUR 116 million (110) during 2019. Capital expenditure related to acquisitions totalled EUR 6 million (196). The comparison figure includes the acquisition of Transas, which was completed in May 2018. Depreciation, amortisation, and impairment for the period amounted to EUR 180 million (130). The increase is related to the implementation of the new IFRS 16 Leases standard. In 2020, capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment is expected to be below depreciation, amortisation, and impairment. Anchor Acquisitions and divestments In May, Wärtsilä announced the acquisition of Ships Electronic Services Ltd (SES), a UK based company specialising in navigation and communication electronics, as well as installation, maintenance, and repair services, mainly for commercial and leisure vessels. SES, established in 1974, has its headquarters in Rochester and operates also out of nine other offices in the UK. In December, Wärtsilä announced the divestment of Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH (ELAC Nautik) to Cohort plc, a UK listed company specialising in defence, security, and related market sectors. ELAC Nautik became part of Wärtsilä as a result of the acquisition of L-3 Communications MSI in 2015. Its main market focus is on hydroacoustic products, including sonars, underwater communication systems, and echo systems for small and medium sized military submarines. ELAC Nautik employs approximately 120 people and generates annual revenues of approximately EUR 21 million. Subject to approvals, completion of the transaction is expected in the early part of 2020. Anchor Strategic pr projects ojects and partnerships In April, Wärtsilä agreed to provide seed funding to Soletair Power Oy, a Finland-based start-up company operating in the field of Power-to-X. Soletair Power Oy has developed a concept to improve air quality in buildings by capturing carbon dioxide and converting it to synthetic renewable fuel. This was followed in May by the announcement of a research collaboration with Lappeenranta-Lahti University of Technology on strategic power system modelling, with the aim of understanding and developing paths towards energy systems operating 100% on renewable energy sources. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 161 In June, Wärtsilä entered into a cooperation agreement with Aggreko, a global power equipment supplier, to introduce a new concept for power markets built around the Wärtsilä Modular Block solution. The cooperation will also enable new business and financing models, such as power as a service or rentals. In September, Wärtsilä and Q Power Oy, a Finnish bio-methanisation company, signed a cooperation agreement to accelerate the development and commercialisation of renewable fuels. The companies will work together to develop the market and find new business opportunities for bio-methanisation and synthetic fuels globally. In October, Wärtsilä co-founded a new global cyber security alliance for operational technology, which aims to bridge dangerous gaps in security for operational technology and industrial control systems. Operational technology encompasses the hardware and software used to control physical systems, such as machinery in factories, power stations, ships, or ports. The Internet of Things and inter-connectedness of production systems in smart factories means that there is a significantly and rapidly growing risk of serious security breaches in these environments. In November, Wärtsilä and Singapore-based PSA Marine announced their collaboration in the co-creation of smart technologies for the marine sector. Specific collaboration areas include the use of electric or hybrid technologies that enhance the utilisation of low-emission energy and propulsion systems, the incorporation of next-generation smart vessel technologies, the adoption of secured connectivity to facilitate ship-to-shore data exchange, as well as marketing and branding activities that generate awareness. In December, Wärtsilä signed a strategic development agreement with the Chinese state-owned shipbuilder CSSC Huangpu Wenchong Shipbuilding Company Limited. The purpose of the five-year agreement is to build a cooperation framework and working mechanism for the research and development of hybrid power systems. Wärtsilä will support Huangpu Wenchong during the design and construction phases with technology innovations, system selection, performance calculations, and long-term services. Anchor Innovations, rresearesearch ch and development Research and development expenditure totalled EUR 164 million (165) in 2019, which represents 3.2% of net sales (3.2). The key focus areas included digitalisation, efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impact. The Wärtsilä 31 engine application range was expanded during the year, with the Wärtsilä 31SG pure gas engine being made available to the marine sector, and applications for the Wärtsilä 31DF multi-fuel engine being extended to include power generation markets. The Wärtsilä 31SG engine further reduces the total cost of ownership and the environmental footprint for vessels operating in regions where there is a developed gas supply infrastructure. The gas-only focus and lean-burn spark ignition technology allows for further optimisation of the engine’s thermal efficiency, while also lowering greenhouse gas emissions and facilitating adaptations for alternative heavier gas fuels, such as LPG. The Wärtsilä 31SG engine is ideally suited for hybrid applications, since it provides outstanding thermal efficiency. It also enables investment cost reductions that help offset the additional cost of energy storage. The Wärtsilä 31DF engine, in turn, offers unequalled open-cycle efficiency, fuel flexibility, and unparalleled dynamic operational features for markets where a gas supply is anticipated but not yet available, or where there are concerns about the availability or price of gaseous fuels. For the energy markets, Wärtsilä launched Engine+ Hybrid Energy, a solution that pairs engines with energy storage to form a fully integrated, automated system providing reliable and environmentally sound power generation with improved efficiency for the operators and power producers of islanded grids. The solution serves load requirements instantly, addresses step changes and intermittencies, and provides spinning reserves. GEMS, the control platform, automatically dispatches available assets and takes into account any operational constraints to ensure optimal operation. Wärtsilä also introduced its Modular Block power plant solution. This pre-fabricated, modularly configured, and expandable enclosure for Wärtsilä medium-speed 34SG gas engine generators enables the reduction of on-site installation time from several months to a few weeks. The solution makes Wärtsilä’s advanced medium-speed engine technology available for applications where it would not be viable with a conventional custom-designed permanent building. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 162 Digital developments included the launch of Wärtsilä Online, a new web-based customer platform aimed at providing a state-of-the-art support service that allows customers to better manage their installed assets. Wärtsilä Online enables mobile usage, new features for smart maintenance management, and real-time collaboration. Wärtsilä also introduced a digital version of Operim – Operational Performance Improvement & Monitoring, the new Navi-Planner voyage planning and optimisation solution, as well as the Expert Insight predictive maintenance product. By digitally augmenting physical products through the addition of data collection capabilities and cloud-based analytics, Operim enables improvements in operational performance through the continuous monitoring of and reporting on the key performance indicators, along with virtual instrumentation. The collected data are delivered to the system’s user in real-time, thereby allowing appropriate and timely manual or autonomous decision-making in a predictive or adaptive manner. Developed by Transas, a Wärtsilä company, Navi-Planner makes use of the connected Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS) to significantly shorten voyage planning and to provide a minimum navigational safety standard for a less experienced crew. Expert Insight enables customer support to be delivered proactively by Wärtsilä Expertise Centres to ensure long-term accurate insight for their predictive maintenance strategies. The solution leverages artificial intelligence and advanced diagnostics to monitor equipment and systems in real-time, enabling enhanced safety, reliability, and efficiency. Anchor Restructuring pr programmes ogrammes In January 2019, Wärtsilä announced a group-wide programme to realign its operations and resources in order to secure future profitability and competitiveness. When finalised, the program is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1,200 employees globally and to generate savings of EUR 100 million. The related costs are estimated be EUR 75 million. The majority of the planned actions were taken during the year. Approximately EUR 50 million of savings materialised by the end of 2019, of which a significant portion was volume related. Costs related to the restructuring measures amounted to approximately EUR 70 million. The remaining savings and costs will be recognised during 2020. Anchor Personnel Wärtsilä had 18,795 (19,294) employees at the end of December. On average, the number of personnel totalled 19,110 (18,899) during the period January-December. Wärtsilä Marine employed 13,460 (13,582) people at the end of the period and Wärtsilä Energy 5,335 (5,712). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 163 Of Wärtsilä’s total number of employees, 20% (20) were located in Finland and 42% (40) elsewhere in Europe. Personnel employed in Asia represented 23% (24) of the total, personnel in the Americas 11% (11), and personnel in other countries 4% (4). Anchor Changes in management Ms Alid Dettke (38), double-degree BA (Hons) European Business, was appointed Executive Vice President Human Resources and member of the Board of Management, as of 24 October 2019. Ms Dettke joined Wärtsilä in November 2017 and had most recently held the position of Vice President for Open Innovation. Ms Päivi Castrén acted as Executive Vice President, Human Resources until 24 October 2019. Mr Marco Ryan acted as Executive Vice President and Chief Digital Officer until 17 July 2019. Following his departure, Wärtsilä’s digital activities were embedded into the Marine and Energy businesses. Anchor Non-financial rreporteport Increasing environmental awareness is resulting in fundamental changes in both the marine and energy industries. Thanks to its various technologies and specialised services, Wärtsilä is well positioned to reduce exhaust emissions and the use of natural resources, and to support its customers in preparing for new regulatory requirements. R&D efforts continue to focus on the development of advanced environmental technologies and solutions. Wärtsilä emphasises responsible business conduct, and is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Responsible business conduct The Wärtsilä Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The Code of Conduct is complemented by group-wide policies, including the quality, environmental, health and safety policy, the corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices, as well as policies related to anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and sourcing and purchasing. Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to its employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of the Code internally to ensure understanding and commitment throughout the organisation. At the end of 2019, 17,727 employees, covering 94% of the total number of employees, had participated in the Code of Conduct training programme. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 164 Suppliers and business partners are an integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Information on Wärtsilä’s requirements is included in supplier agreement templates. Envir Environmental onmental performance Wärtsilä’s main contribution to improved environmental performance lies in providing its customers with reliable and safe technologies and services, which, in addition to enabling environmental compliance, support the sustainable development of the marine and energy industries. Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are designed to operate for up to 30 years. Therefore, focusing R&D efforts on improving the product or system level performance is crucial, as is adopting a lifecycle approach to performance optimisation. In addition to improving the environmental performance of its product and solutions, Wärtsilä also continuously monitors the impact caused by its own activities and targets reduced energy consumption in its facilities. Wärtsilä's quality, environmental, health and safety policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services. The potential risks related to environmental matters and climate change are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. Risks are managed by focusing on product efficiency improvement and emission reduction in R&D activities, as well as by developing a wide product offering, including technologies related to waste reduction, noise abatement, and effluent and ballast water treatment. During 2019, R&D investments totalled EUR 164 million, which represents 3.2% of net sales. The majority of these investments targeted improved environmental performance. Significant achievements related to sustainable innovation included the extension of the Wärtsilä 31 engine application range, with the Wärtsilä 31SG pure gas engine being made available to the marine sector, and applications for the Wärtsilä 31DF multi-fuel engine being extended to include power generation markets. The development of these engines is a direct result of Wärtsilä's on-going commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its gas engines by 15% by 2020 from 2015 levels. For the marine markets, Wärtsilä launched several solutions in support of its Smart Marine Ecosystem vision, including new navigation solutions, hybrid solutions, and offerings aimed at smarter performance and greater profitability. In the energy markets, Wärtsilä introduced a hybrid energy solution for isolated and remote grids, as well as a Modular Block power plant solution enabling the reduction of on-site installation time from several months to a few weeks. Social and employee matters Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, offering employees a workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. Wärtsilä is a signatory of the UN Global Compact initiative and supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all Wärtsilä companies. People management processes, tools, and ways of working are developed to ensure consistency across national and organisational boundaries. Wärtsilä has a global job grading system and rewarding principles to ensure transparency and fairness for all employees, which are followed by all the entities in Wärtsilä globally. The objective of Wärtsilä’s people management strategy is to ensure that the businesses have the required resources, and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. In order to develop their competences, employees are offered a wide variety of internal training courses, including topics like technology, health and safety, language and culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. The average number of learning days was 2.07 per employee in 2019. Wärtsilä aims at offering employees and contractors a hazard-free working environment, and at minimising the health and safety risks associated with the use of its products and services. The company’s occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the quality, environmental, health and safety (QEHS) policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's units are required to have a management system in place that conforms to the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. Wärtsilä’s aim is to reach a long-term goal of zero injuries. In 2019, the corporate lost-time injury frequency rate was 2.25 (2.50). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 165 Respect for human rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's universal declaration of human rights. Wärtsilä is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is thereby committed to its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Code of Conduct training material, and are included in Wärtsilä’s policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices as well as in the company’s supplier handbook. Anti-corruption and bribery matters Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy, and broker directive expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates. Therefore, full compliance with a stringent anti-corruption regime is required of all employees. An extensive training programme is in place for personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. By the end of 2019, 86% of Wärtsilä’s employees had participated in anti-corruption trainings. Employees are encouraged to provide feedback and communicate suspected misconduct to line management or directly to the compliance, legal affairs or internal audit function. Wärtsilä also has a dedicated tool through which employees can report infringements. Anchor Reporting segments Wärtsilä Marine Operating envir environment onment During 2019, 1,153 contracts for new vessels were registered (1,237 in 2018, excluding late contracting). Economic uncertainty, trade tensions, and regulatory considerations resulted in subdued contracting activity particularly in the merchant marine market. A wave of shipyard consolidations was announced during the year, as yards moved towards improving their competitiveness and better managing the prevailing overcapacity. Activity remained solid in the gas carrier segment, driven by the growth in demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG), the increasing role of gas in the global energy mix, and firm spot rates. In the cruise segment, contracting activity favoured small and medium-sized vessels, due to the growing interest in luxury and expedition cruises, as well as capacity constraints in building larger ships. Investments in the ferry segment continued to be driven mainly by the replacement of older vessels, while the ferry market remained balanced in terms of supply and demand. In the offshore sector, contracting was burdened by reactivation and upgrades of stacked vessels, as well as by the slow rate of growth in vessel utilisation and day rates. The focus on environmental issues and related regulations are driving increased efforts to minimise the environmental footprint of the shipping industry. This is resulting in a growing interest in LNG as a fuel and hybrid battery packs across vessel segments. While fuel price spreads are supportive of investments in scrubber technology, uncertainty around future developments and fuel availability has delayed decision-making among customers. The demand for marine services was solid, with the most positive development seen in the merchant and cruise and ferry segments. In the cruise segment, activity favoured the servicing of automation and navigation solutions. For merchant vessels, demand increased particularly in the gas carrier segment, driven by continued growth in LNG trade and LNG carriers reaching their maintenance window for larger overhauls. Economic and trade related uncertainties resulted in slower service activity in the container vessel segment. Activity improved from a low level in the offshore support vessel segment, thanks to fleet reactivation and improving vessel utilisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 166 Financial development Order intake in 2019 amounted to EUR 3,517 million (3,945), a decrease of 11% compared to the previous year. Book-to-bill was 1.06 (1.40). Services orders decreased by 2% to EUR 1,715 million (1,747), while equipment orders decreased by 18% to EUR 1,802 million (2,198). The order book at the end of December amounted to EUR 3,799 million (3,651), which is 4% higher than last year. Demand was highest in the merchant segment, which, including both traditional merchant vessels and gas carriers, represented 40% and 35% of the order intake of equipment and services, respectively. Orders received from this segment included the strategically important contract to supply fleet operations solution to Anglo-Eastern’s global fleet of more than 600 vessels, as well as multiple orders for gas solutions, power supply solutions, and service agreements for gas carriers. Activity was strong also in the cruise and ferry segment, where, in addition to several equipment orders for cruise ships, Wärtsilä was awarded a contract to supply an integrated package of products, systems, and solutions to Wasaline’s new, efficient, and environmentally sustainable RoPax ferry. Net sales increased by 18% to EUR 3,330 million (2,815) compared to the previous year. Services net sales increased by 4% to EUR 1,639 million (1,577), while equipment net sales increased by 37% to EUR 1,691 million (1,238) largely due to a significant increase in scrubber deliveries. The comparable operating result amounted to EUR 305 million (380), which represents 9.1% of net sales (13.5). The decline is largely due to charges of EUR 51 million related to cost overruns in certain gas solution project deliveries and a lower share of result from joint ventures. The comparison figure was elevated by a capital gain amounting to EUR 27 million from the divestment of the pumps business. Profitability was also affected by the higher proportional share of equipment deliveries in the net sales mix of 2019. Wärtsilä Energy Operating envir environment onment Activity in the liquid and gas fuelled power plant markets was well below that of the previous year. Energy policies are being developed to drive ambitious decarbonisation targets, and utilities continue to update their investment strategies accordingly. This, combined with macroeconomic uncertainty, has slowed decision-making globally. The low number of new power plant projects resulted in a tough competitive environment. In contrast to the challenges in the equipment business, the demand for services was solid, as customers continued to see the benefit of enhancing installation reliability with long-term service agreements. Wärtsilä’s market share in the up to 500 MW market segment increased to 17% (14), while global orders for natural gas and liquid power plants decreased by 44% to 11.6 GW during the twelve-month period ending in September 2019 (15.1 GW at the end of June). Global orders include gas turbines and Wärtsilä orders with prime movers over 5 MW in size. The data is gathered from the McCoy Power Report. Financial development Order intake in 2019 totalled EUR 1,810 million (2,362), a decrease of 23% compared to the previous year. Bookto-bill was 0.98 (1.00). Services order intake increased by 13% to EUR 961 million (851), largely thanks to the alltime high order intake in long-term service agreements, which grew by 50% compared to the previous year. Equipment order intake decreased by 44% to EUR 849 million (1,511). The order book at the end of December declined by 17% to EUR 2,079 million (2,515). Demand for new equipment and services was highest in Asia and the Americas. New equipment orders received during the year included a 132 MW dual-fuel power plant to improve system reliability in the Bahamas, a 200 MW dual-fuel power plant to be delivered to Cambodia to provide grid stability and to enable increasing levels of renewable energy integration into the system, as well as the first Modular Block Solution of 40 MW in Mali. Wärtsilä also received several orders for energy storage and optimisation solutions during the year, including a 100 MW/100 MWh total capacity energy storage project in South East Asia. Signed service agreements included Wärtsilä’s largest ever long-term operation and maintenance agreement awarded by Energia del Pacifico for a power plant under construction in El Salvador, for which order intake will be recognised once the plant is in operation. Other important service orders consisted of an agreement to maintain Summit’s 464 MW power plants in Bangladesh and a 5-year operation and maintenance agreement for a newly installed 145 MW power plant in Myanmar. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 167 Net sales decreased by 22% to EUR 1,840 million (2,359) compared to the previous year. Services net sales increased by 2% to EUR 863 million (842), while equipment net sales decreased by 36% to EUR 977 million (1,517). The comparable operating result was EUR 152 million (197), which represents 8.3% of net sales (8.4). The comparable operating result for 2019 includes charges of EUR 101 million related to cost overruns in certain projects in the equipment business, while the comparison figure includes a charge of approximately EUR 70 million covering cost overruns and project delays in two nuclear power plant back-up genset projects. Anchor Risks and business uncertainties Trade tensions, geopolitical uncertainty, and a possible slowdown in the global economy are affecting investment decisions in the shipping industry, especially in the bulk carrier and container sectors. While slow economic growth is also a risk to demand development in the service markets, the capital-intensive newbuilding market is more sensitive to changes in the economic outlook. Changes in the financial landscape have resulted in challenges to the securing of financing for newbuilds. The continued oversupply in the market, together with low contracting volumes, has led to further price pressure. Shipyard consolidation among the major yards is a potential risk that might result in lower capture rates in equipment sales due to changed relationships with the shipyards. The shortage of available shipyard capacity to install and commission scrubber retrofits has resulted in delays in project deliveries. While concerns related to climate change require increasing efforts to reduce emissions within the shipping industry, uncertainties concerning developments in the regulatory environment may slow newbuild activity. In the power generation markets, fragile economic growth, and slow decision-making related to the ongoing energy transition continue to be the primary risks for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and the implications of trade barriers are also notable challenges to the demand environment. Significant currency fluctuations can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. Effective cyber risk management is increasingly important as cyber security has become vital to the operation and management of many safety, security, and protection systems in the shipping environment. This is also the case with the increasing importance of energy management systems as renewable energy penetration grows. Wärtsilä emphasises a holistic approach to the management of cyber and physical security risks in its internal operations and customer offerings. In its operational and governance activities, the company’s cyber security team has continued to move towards compliance with the IEC62443 and ISO 27000 protocols. Such activities include cyber assurance, risk management and detection, a secure software development lifecycle, training, endpoint protection, network security, and cyber advisory services. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases that have arisen out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits mainly concern issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage, and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim. It is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims, as well as for litigation and arbitration matters, when an unfavourable outcome is probable, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Risks and risk management section of this annual report contains a more detailed description of Wärtsilä’s risks and business uncertainties. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 168 Anchor Shar Shares es and shar shareholders eholders During January-December, the volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 333,483,579 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 3,947 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, such as Turquoise, BATS CXE, and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 229,045,024 shares. Wärtsilä shar shares es on Nasdaq Helsinki Number of shares Number of shares 31.12.2019 and votes traded 1-12/2019 WRT1V 591 723 390 333 483 579 1.1. 31.12.2019 High Low Average1 Close Share price 15.56 8.78 11.82 9.85 1 Trade-weighted average price Market capitalisation 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 MEUR 5 828 8 222 Foreign shareholders 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 % 53 55 Flagging notifications Wärtsilä was informed of the following changes in ownership during 2019: Transaction date Shareholder Threshold Direct holding, % Total holding, % 22.2.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.94 5.35 26.2.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.07 5.42 22.3.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.82 5.38 26.4.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.02 5.18 3.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.95 5.18 7.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.00 5.23 10.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.98 5.23 21.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Above 5% 5.02 5.16 24.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% 4.97 5.16 31.5.2019 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% Below 5% Below 5% 11.6.2019 Fiskars Corporation Below 5% Below 5% Below 5% Anchor Decisions taken by the Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä’s Annual General Meeting, held on 7 March 2019, approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2018. The Annual General Meeting decided that the Board of Directors shall have eight members. The following were elected to the Board: Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Karin Falk, Johan Forssell, Tom Johnstone, Mikael Lilius, Risto Murto and Markus Rauramo. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the company’s auditor for the year 2019. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 169 Dividend distribution The Annual General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to distribute a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.24 per share was distributed on 18 March 2019. The second instalment of EUR 0.24 per share was distributed on 27 September 2019. Authorisation to rrepur epurchase chase the Company’ Company’ss own shar shareses The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 57,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than for 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. Authorisation to issue shar shares es The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to issue new shares or transfer shares held by the Company. The maximum number of shares to be so issued shall not exceed 57,000,000. The shares can be issued for consideration or without consideration. They can also be issued in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights by way of a directed issue if there is a weighty financial reason for the Company to do so. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to issue shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 8 March 2018 to distribute the Company’s own shares. Organisation of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors Convening after the Annual General Meeting the Board of Directors elected Mikael Lilius as its chairman and Tom Johnstone as the deputy chairman. The Board decided to establish an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Board appointed from among its members the following members to the Committees: Audit Committee: Chairman Markus Rauramo, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Risto Murto Nomination Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell, Risto Murto Remuneration Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Tom Johnstone Anchor Wärtsilä's pr prospects ospects The demand for Wärtsilä’s services and solutions in the coming 12 months is expected to be somewhat below that of the previous 12 months. Demand by business area is anticipated to be as follows: • Soft in Wärtsilä Marine Business, as low vessel contracting is expected to affect equipment ordering activity. • Soft in Wärtsilä Energy Business. While some recovery in equipment order intake is anticipated, market conditions remain challenging. Wärtsilä’s current order book for 2020 deliveries is EUR 3,571 million (3,696), comprised mainly of equipment deliveries. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 170 Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors’ ectors’ dividend pr proposal oposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0,48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2019. The parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 993,534,893.15, which includes EUR 239,590,080.77 in net profit for the year. There are 591,723,390 shares with dividend rights. The dividend shall be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0,24 per share shall be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date of 9 March 2020. The payment day proposed by the Board for this instalment is 16 March 2020. The second instalment of EUR 0,24 per share shall be paid in September 2020. The second instalment of the dividend shall be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record day, which, together with the payment day, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 8 September 2020. The dividend record day for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 10 September 2020 and the dividend payment day 17 September 2020. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 171 Anchor Five years in figures Wärtsilä provides certain financial performance measures, which are accounting measures that are not defined by IFRS. These alternative performance measures, such as comparable operating result, comparable adjusted EBITA, cash flow from operating activities, and gearing, are followed and used by management to measure the Group's performance and financial position. In addition, Wärtsilä's targets of financial performance are linked to for example comparable operating result and gearing. Thus, these alternative performance measures provide useful information to the capital markets. The alternative performance measures should not be evaluated in isolation from the IFRS measures. The alternative performance measure calculation definitions are disclosed in section Calculations of financial ratios. Restated MEUR 2019 2018 2017* 2016 2015 Net sales 5 170 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 of which outside Finland % 98.5 98.9 97.7 97.5 97.8 Exports from Finland 1 933 2 145 1 953 1 804 1 936 Personnel on average 19 110 18 899 17 866 18 332 18 565 of which in Finland 3 868 3 766 3 521 3 482 3 580 Order book 5 878 6 166 5 100 4 696 4 882 Fr From om the consolidated statement of income Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 180 130 134 138 124 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -9 13 13 14 17 Comparable operating result 457 577 576 583 612 as a percentage of net sales % 8.8 11.2 11.7 12.1 12.2 Operating result 362 543 538 532 587 as a percentage of net sales % 7.0 10.5 11.0 11.1 11.7 Comparable adjusted EBITA 498 621 612 618 643 as a percentage of net sales % 9.6 12.0 12.5 12.9 12.8 Financial income and expenses -47 -40 -47 -53 -34 Profit before taxes 315 502 491 479 553 as a percentage of net sales % 6.1 9.7 10.0 10.0 11.0 Profit for the financial period from the continuing operations 218 386 375 357 429 Profit for the financial period from the discontinued operations 22 Net profit for the financial period 218 386 375 357 451 as a percentage of net sales % 4.2 7.5 7.6 7.4 9.0 Fr From om the consolidated statement of financial position Non-current assets 2 518 2 369 2 285 2 116 2 215 Current assets 3 797 3 690 3 363 3 275 3 374 Assets held for sale 82 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 2 396 2 418 2 352 2 288 2 201 Non-controlling interests 14 14 24 34 41 Interest-bearing debt 1 096 823 619 629 724 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 824 2 804 2 653 2 441 2 623 Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 68 Total equity and liabilities 6 398 6 059 5 648 5 391 5 589 Fr From om the consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flow from operating activities 232 470 430 613 255 Cash flow from investing activities -95 -240 -235 -126 -288 Cash flow from financing activities -256 -118 -278 -339 -210 Gross capital expenditure 122 306 255 146 346 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 172 as a percentage of net sales % 2.4 5.9 5.2 3.0 6.9 Research and development expenditure 164 165 141 131 132 as a percentage of net sales % 3.2 3.2 2.9 2.7 2.6 Dividends paid 284** 284 272 256 237 Financial ratios Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted*** EUR 0.37 0.65 0.63 0.60 0.75 Dividend per share*** EUR 0.48** 0.48 0.46 0.43 0.40 Dividend per earnings % 130.8** 73.7 70.8 72.8 53.3 Interest coverage 7.7 10.8 11.8 18.6 15.9 Return on investment (ROI) % 11.5 18.1 18.5 17.1 21.0 Return on equity (ROE) % 9.0 16.1 16.0 15.6 20.2 Solvency ratio % 40.8 44.4 46.3 47.6 44.6 Gearing**** 0.30 0.14 0.10 0.07 0.17 Equity per share*** EUR 4.05 4.09 3.97 3.87 3.72 Working capital (WCAP) EUR 732 581 563 490 543 * Figures in the comparison period 2017 have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15. ** Proposal of the Board of Directors. *** Share issue without payment (share split) approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591,723,390. Figures in the comparison periods have been restated accordingly. **** Includes the cash and cash equivalents pertaining to assets held for sale. Anchor Quarterly figures Restated 10–12/ 7–9/ 4–6/ 1–3/ 10–12/ 7–9/ 4–6/ 1–3/ 10–12/ MEUR 2019 2019 2019 2019 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017** Or Order der intake Wärtsilä Marine Business* 951 705 936 922 1 031 1 009 1 027 877 Wärtsilä Energy Business* 604 274 441 494 843 363 526 630 Total 1 555 979 1 377 1 416 1 874 1 372 1 553 1 507 1 514 Or Order der book at the end of the financial period Wärtsilä Marine Business* 3 799 3 895 3 974 3 861 3 651 3 536 3 244 2 818 Wärtsilä Energy Business* 2 079 2 399 2 496 2 469 2 515 2 382 2 660 2 672 Total 5 878 6 294 6 470 6 330 6 166 5 918 5 904 5 490 5 100 Net sales Wärtsilä Marine Business* 1 020 776 801 733 831 680 685 619 Wärtsilä Energy Business* 664 342 416 418 701 650 561 447 Total 1 684 1 118 1 217 1 151 1 532 1 330 1 246 1 066 1 441 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -2 -6 -1 3 3 4 3 6 Comparable adjusted EBITA 213 49 123 113 237 152 134 98 250 as a percentage of net sales 12.6 4.4 10.1 9.8 15.4 11.5 10.7 9.2 17.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -39 -58 -42 -41 -37 -31 -31 -30 -42 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 173 Purchase price allocation amortisation -10 -10 -10 -11 -11 -11 -11 -10 -10 Comparable operating result 202 39 113 102 226 141 123 88 241 as a percentage of net sales 12.0 3.5 9.3 8.9 14.7 10.6 9.8 8.3 16.7 Items affecting comparability, total -39 -28 -17 -11 -20 -12 -3 -19 Operating result 164 11 96 91 206 141 111 85 222 as a percentage of net sales 9.7 1.0 7.9 7.9 13.4 10.6 8.9 8.0 15.4 Financial income and expenses -11 -11 -13 -13 -12 -11 -8 -9 -10 Profit before taxes 153 83 78 194 130 102 76 211 Income taxes -51 -5 -21 -19 -41 -29 -28 -19 -47 Profit for the financial period 102 -5 62 59 153 101 75 57 165 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.17 -0.01 0.11 0.10 0.25 0.17 0.13 0.10 0.28 Gross capital expenditure 44 24 32 23 48 26 194 37 79 Investments in securities and acquisitions 2 4 -1 177 20 45 Cash flow from operating activities 295 -61 -37 35 349 122 41 -42 276 Working capital (WCAP) at the end of the financial period 732 870 784 656 581 782 790 726 563 Personnel at the end of the financial period Wärtsilä Marine Business* 13 460 13 530 13 598 13 467 13 582 13 727 13 609 12 618 Wärtsilä Energy Business* 5 335 5 488 5 641 5 758 5 712 5 692 5 622 5 564 Total 18 795 19 018 19 239 19 225 19 294 19 420 19 231 18 182 18 065 * Segment figures in the comparison period 2018 have been restated to reflect the new organisational structure. ** Figures in the comparison period 2017 have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15. Anchor Calculations of financial ratios Retur Return n on investment (ROI) Profit before taxes + interest and other financial expenses x 100 Total equity and liabilities – non-interest-bearing liabilities – provisions, average over the financial period Retur Return n on equity (ROE) Profit for the financial period x 100 Equity, average over the financial period Gr Gross oss capital expenditur expendituree Investments in securities and acquisitions + investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 174 Net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt Total of non-current and current interest-bearing debt + total of non-current and current lease liabilities – interest-bearing receivables – cash and cash equivalents Inter Interest est coverage Profit before taxes + depreciation, amortisation and impairment + interest and other financial expenses Interest and other financial expenses Solvency ratio Equity x 100 Total equity and liabilities – advances received Gearing Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Equity Ear Earnings nings per shar sharee (EPS), basic and diluted Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares, average over the financial period Equity per shar sharee Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per shar sharee Dividends paid for the financial period Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per earearnings nings Dividend per share x 100 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Ef Effective fective dividend yield Dividend per share x 100 Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Price/ear Price/earnings nings (P/E) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Price/carrying amount per shar sharee (P/BV) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Equity per share Working capital (WCAP) (Inventories + trade receivables + current tax receivables + other non-interest-bearing receivables) – (trade payables + advances received + pension obligations + provisions + current tax liabilities + other non-interest-bearing liabilities – dividend payable) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 175 Or Order der book The presentation in value of orders that are placed by customers but not yet delivered. For service agreements, only the expected net sales for the next 24 months are included in the order book. Or Order der intake Total amount of orders received during the financial period to be delivered either during the current financial period or thereafter. Operating rresult esult Net sales + other operating income – expenses – depreciation, amortisation and impairment +/– share of result of associates and joint ventures Comparable adjusted EBIT EBITAA Operating result – items affecting comparability – purchase price allocation amortisation Comparable operating rresult esult Operating result – items affecting comparability Items af affecting fecting comparability Certain income and expenses are presented as items affecting comparability when they have significant impact on the consolidated statement of income. Items affecting comparability consist of income and expenses, which result from restructuring activities aiming to adjust the capacity of Wärtsilä’s operations. They may also include other income and expenses incurred outside Wärtsilä’s normal course of business, such as impairment charges, acquisition related costs, settlements recorded as a result of legal proceedings with third parties or unforeseen obligations from earlier discontinued businesses. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 176 Anchor Financial statements Anchor Consolidated financial statements Anchor Consolidated statement of income MEUR 2019 2018 Note Net sales 5 170 5 174 1 5 Change in inventories of finished goods & work in progress 137 64 Work performed by the Group and capitalised 18 14 Other operating income 67 80 6 Material and services -3 003 -2 852 7 Employee benefit expenses -1 260 -1 175 8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -180 -130 9 Other operating expenses -578 -648 10 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -9 13 17 Operating rresult esult 362 543 as a percentage of net sales 7.0 10.5 Financial income 27 24 11 Financial expenses -74 -65 11 Pr Profit ofit befor beforee taxes 315 502 Income taxes -97 -116 12 Pr Profit ofit for the financial period 218 386 Attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 217 386 13 non-controlling interests 1 1 218 386 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.37 0.65 13 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 177 Anchor Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MEUR 2019 2018 Note Pr Profit ofit for the financial period 218 386 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income, net of taxes: Items that will not be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities -20 -3 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income 5 Total items that will not be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income -16 -4 Items that may be rreclassified eclassified subsequently to the statement of income Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations for equity holders of the parent company 42 -23 for non-controlling interests -1 Associates and joint ventures, share of other comprehensive income -1 -1 Cash flow hedges measured at fair value 4 -17 26 transferred to the statement of income 19 -8 Tax on items that may be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges measured at fair value 3 transferred to the statement of income -4 2 Total items that may be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income 60 -45 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period, net of taxes 45 -48 Total compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period 263 338 Total comprehensive income attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 262 338 non-controlling interests 1 263 338 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 178 Anchor Consolidated statement of financial position MEUR 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Note Assets Non-curr Non-currentent assets Goodwill 1 380 1 355 14 Intangible assets 397 392 14 Property, plant and equipment 307 324 15 Right-of-use assets 185 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures 42 66 17 Other investments 18 16 18 Interest-bearing investments 1 3 18 Deferred tax assets 155 129 24 Trade receivables 19 49 18 Other receivables 15 34 21 Total non-curr non-current ent assets 2 518 2 369 Curr Current ent assets Inventories 1 365 1 165 19 Trade receivables 1 237 1 222 18 20 Current tax receivables 42 31 Contract assets 515 557 20 Other receivables 281 228 21 Cash and cash equivalents 358 487 22 23 Total curr current ent assets 3 797 3 690 Assets held for sale 82 4 Total assets 6 398 6 059 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 336 336 26 Share premium 61 61 26 Translation differences -114 -155 26 Fair value reserve -11 -31 26 Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities -55 -39 25 Retained earnings 2 178 2 245 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the par parent ent company 2 396 2 418 Non-controlling interests 14 14 Total equity 2 410 2 432 Liabilities This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 179 Non-curr Non-currentent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 997 748 18 23 28 Deferred tax liabilities 83 99 24 Pension obligations 155 149 25 Provisions 45 54 27 Contract liabilities 38 41 20 Other liabilities 1 1 29 Total non-curr non-currentent liabilities 1 317 1 092 Curr Current ent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 99 74 18 23 28 Provisions 278 251 27 Trade payables 624 596 18 28 Current tax liabilities 100 81 Contract liabilities 880 888 20 Other liabilities 622 645 29 Total curr current ent liabilities 2 603 2 535 Total liabilities 3 920 3 627 Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 68 4 Total equity and liabilities 6 398 6 059 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 180 Anchor Consolidated statement of cash flows MEUR 2019 2018 Note Cash flow fr from om operating activities: Profit for the financial period 218 386 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 180 130 9 Financial income and expenses 47 39 11 Gains and losses on sale of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and other changes -15 -26 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 9 -13 17 Income taxes 97 116 12 Other non-cash flow adjustments 3 -7 Cash flow before changes in working capital 540 625 Changes in working capital: Receivables, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) 9 -22 Inventories, increase (-) / decrease (+) -213 -130 19 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 74 117 Changes in working capital -130 -35 Cash flow fr from om operating activities befor beforee financial items and taxes 410 589 Financial items and taxes: Interest income 4 6 Interest expenses -13 -14 Other financial income and expenses -27 -7 Income taxes paid -141 -104 Financial items and paid taxes -178 -119 Cash flow fr from om operating activities 232 470 Cash flow fr from om investing activities: Acquisitions -4 -191 2 Investments in associates and joint ventures -1 17 Other investments -2 -3 18 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -116 -110 14 15 Reduction of share capital in associates and joint ventures 13 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 25 11 14 15 Proceeds from sale of shares in subsidiaries 1 41 3 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+), and other changes 1 Cash flow fr from om investing activities -95 -240 Cash flow after investing activities 137 230 Cash flow fr from om financing activities: Proceeds from non-current debt 150 279 Repayments and other changes in non-current debt -105 -84 28 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 181 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) 2 -4 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -18 -35 Dividends paid -284 -274 Cash flow fr from om financing activities -256 -118 Change in cash and cash equivalents, incr increase ease (-) decrease ease (+) / decr -119 112 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial period 487 379 Exchange rate changes -5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial period* 369 487 * Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial period include the cash and cash equivalents pertaining to assets held for sale. The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 182 Anchor Consolidated statement of changes in equity Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity RemeasTransurements lation Fair of defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 1 January 2018 336 61 -132 -10 -38 2 135 2 352 24 2 376 Translation differences -24 -24 -1 -25 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes -14 -14 -14 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -6 -6 -6 Defined benefit plans -3 -3 -3 Other changes 3 -3 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income -24 -20 -1 -3 -47 -1 -48 Profit for the financial period 386 386 1 386 Total compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period -24 -20 -1 383 338 338 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -272 -272 -3 -275 non-controlling interests in disposed subsidiaries -7 -7 Equity on 31 December 2018 336 61 -155 -31 -39 2 245 2 418 14 2 432 Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity RemeasTransurements lation Fair of defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 1 January 2019 336 61 -155 -31 -39 2 245 2 418 14 2 432 Translation differences 41 41 41 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes 4 4 4 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 16 16 16 Defined benefit plans -16 -16 -16 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income 41 20 -16 45 45 Profit for the financial period 217 217 1 218 Total compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period 41 20 -16 217 262 1 263 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -284 -284 -1 -285 Equity on 31 December 2019 336 61 -114 -11 -55 2 178 2 396 14 2 410 Additional information on share capital, share premium, translation difference and fair value reserve is presented in Note 26. Equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 183 Anchor Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements Basic information Wärtsilä Corporation is a Finnish listed company organised under the laws of Finland and domiciled in Helsinki. The address of its registered office is Hiililaiturinkuja 2, 00180 Helsinki. Wärtsilä Corporation is the ultimate parent company in the Wärtsilä Group. Wärtsilä is a global leader in smart technologies and complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising sustainable innovation, total efficiency and data analytics, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2019, Wärtsilä’s net sales totalled EUR 5.2 billion with approximately 19,110 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. These consolidated financial statements were authorised for release by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation on 29 January 2020, after which, in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Act, the shareholders have a right to approve or reject the financial statements in the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting also has a possibility to decide upon changes in the financial statements. Basis of pr preparation eparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by applying IAS and IFRS standards and their SIC and IFRIC interpretations, which were in force on 31 December 2019. International Financial Reporting Standards refer to the standards, and their interpretations, approved for application in the EU in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the EU’s regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 and embodied in Finnish accounting legislation and the statutes enacted under it. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with the Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. Reporting is based on the historical cost convention. Exceptions are the financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income, the assets and liabilities arising from pension plans, hedged items under fair value hedging, and the cashand share-settled share-based payment transactions which are measured at fair value. The figures are in millions of euros except notes 32. Related party disclosures and 34. Auditors' fees and services, which are presented in thousands of euros. IFRS amendments In 2019, the Group has adopted the following new and amended standards and interpretation issued by the IASB. IFRS 16 Leases (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) addresses the definition, recognition and measurement of lease agreements and notes related to leases. The standard replaced IAS 17 Leases. The financial leases identified and capitalised according to IAS 17 before the financial period 2019 are classified as right-of-use (ROU) assets and the corresponding lease liability has been recognised. The lessor accounting remains similar to IAS 17, lessors contiue to classify leases as finance leases or operating leases. IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. Under IFRS 16, the companies are required to recognise right-of-use assets (ROU) and lease liabilities in the statement of financial position. These are initially measured at the present value of unavoidable future lease payments. The right-of-use assets are This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 184 depreciated and interest on lease liabilities recognised in the statement of income over the lease term. Whether a contract contains a lease is determined based on whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. Exemptions regarding recognition of leases apply to short-term leases with lease period less than 12 months and to assets of low value. Wärtsilä Group's capitalised lease agreements consist mainly of office premise and machinery and equipment lease agreements. Based on the applied accounting policy, the Group recognises the lease agreements as lease liabilities and as ROU assets in its statement of financial position. Lease payments are presented as repayments of liabilities and related interest expenses. The lease payments are presented in the cash flow from financing activities and the interest related to leases are presented in the cash flow from operating activities. Lease payments related to shortterm leases, low-value assets and variable payments are presented in the cash flow from operating activities. The Group applied the modified approach in the transition. The Group applies the two available exemptions, which relate to either short-term contracts, in which the lease term is less than 12 months, or low-value assets, which are expensed to other operating expenses. Based on the Group's calculation, the net present value of the capitalised lease liability amounts to EUR 212 million according to the following bridge calculation: MEUR Nominal amount of rents according to leasing contracts on 31 December 2018 284 Variable lease payments -23 Residual value -3 Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets -15 Leases not yet commenced to which Wärtsilä is committed -3 Nominal amount of lease liability on 1 January 2019 240 Present value 212 The nominal lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments. The lease payments exclude variable elements. Variable lease payments not included in the initial measurement of the lease liability are recognised directly in the statement of income. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease plus period covered by an option to extend or option to terminate if the lessee is reasonably certain to excercise the extension option. Management judgement based on realistic estimates is used when determining the lease term for artificially short-term and leasing agreements with non-fixed terms. At transition, the lease payments were discounted by using the Group's incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rates used are the sum of relevant interbank rates and average margin of group loan portfolio and are currency specific. The Group recognised at transition ROU assets amounting to EUR 213 million, non-current lease liabilities amounting to EUR 169 million, and current lease liabilities amounting to EUR 43 million. The lease expense reduction during 2019 arising from the lease agreements amounted to EUR 54 million and the increase of interest expense to EUR 5 million. The total depreciation expense for the financial period 2019 in the statement of income increased by EUR 49 million due to the ROU asset depreciations. The comparison figures have not been restated. Condensed statement of financial position IFRS 16 MEUR 31.12.2018 adjustment 1.1.2019 Non-curr Non-current ent assets Intangible assets 1 747 1 747 Property, plant and equipment 324 -2 321 Right-of-use assets 215 215 Investments in associates and joint ventures 66 66 Other investments 16 16 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 185 Deferred tax assets 129 129 Other receivables 86 86 Total non-curr non-current ent assets 2 369 213 2 581 Curr Current ent assets Inventories 1 165 1 165 Other receivables 2 038 2 038 Cash and cash equivalents 487 487 Total curr current ent assets 3 690 -1 3 690 Total assets 6 059 212 6 271 Equity Share capital 336 336 Other equity 2 082 2 082 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the par parent ent company 2 418 2 418 Non-controlling interests 14 14 Total equity 2 432 2 432 Non-curr Non-currentent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 748 169 917 Deferred tax liabilities 99 99 Other liabilities 245 245 Total non-curr non-current ent liabilities 1 092 169 1 261 Curr Current ent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 74 43 117 Other liabilities 2 461 2 461 Total curr current ent liabilities 2 535 43 2 578 Total liabilities 3 627 212 3 839 Total equity and liabilities 6 059 212 6 271 Amendments to IAS 28 by Long-term Inter Interests ests in Associates and Joint V Ventur entureses (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). The amendments clarify that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is applied to the accounting for long-term interest in an associate or joint venture to which the equity method is not applied. The amendments have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendment to IAS 19 by Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). This amendment clarifies the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during a reporting period. The amendment specifies that when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during the annual reporting period, an entity is required to use updated assumptions to determine the current service cost and net interest. The amendment does not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 9 by Pr Prepayment epayment Featur Featureses with Negative Compensation (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation amends the existing requirements in IFRS 9 regarding termination rights in order to allow measurement at amortised cost (or, depending This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 186 on the business model, at fair value through other comprehensive income) even in the case of negative compensation payments. Without the amendment these financial assets would have had to be measured at FVPL. The amendments have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income T Tax ax T Trreatments (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). This interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12. The key matter is whether the tax authority will accept the chosen tax treatment. When considering this, the assumption is that tax authorities will have full knowledge of all relevant information in assessing the proposed tax treatment. The interpretation does not have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. Annual impr improvements ovements to IFRS Standar Standardsds 2015-2017 Cycle: The improvements that include smaller amendments to four standards do not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. Management judgement and use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the valuation of the reported assets and liabilities and other information, such as contingent assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses in the statement of income. Although these estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ from the estimates. For Wärtsilä, the most significant judgements, estimates, and assumptions made by the management relate to revenue recognition, especially to project estimates for long-term projects and agreements, assumptions used in impairment testing, the valuation of trade receivables and inventories, determining the length of lease terms, estimates and assumptions used in defined pension benefit obligations, recognition of warranty provisions and provisions for legal cases, and uncertain tax positions. In addition, accounting for business combinations may require significant management judgement. Assessing whether or not it is probable that the consideration from contracts with customers will be collected requires judgement, and might impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Revenue from certain projects and long-term agreements is recognised over time according to the input method when the profit on the project or agreement can be reliably determined. The progress and the profitability are based on the management’s estimates, which require significant judgement concerning the stage of completion, cost to complete, and time of completion. These estimates are reviewed regularly. Recognised revenue and costs recorded are adjusted during the project when assumptions concerning the outcome of the entire project are updated. Changes in assumptions relate to changes in the project’s or agreement’s schedule, scope of supply, technology, costs, and any other relevant factors. Establishing whether distinct goods or services are considered as being separate performance obligations requires judgement, and might impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Project business contracts usually involve elements of variable consideration. At each reporting date, management reassesses the transaction price, which requires significant judgement as it affects the timing of the revenue recognition. The valuation of accounts receivables also includes estimates mainly concerning the recoverability of receivables. Determining whether different contracts with the same customer are accounted for as one contract involves the use of judgement, as it requires assessment of whether the contracts are negotiated together or linked in any other way. The timing and amount of revenue recognition can vary depending on whether two contracts are accounted for separately, or as one single arrangement. Warranty provisions are recorded on the recognition of revenue. The provision is based on the accumulated experience of the level of warranty needed to manage future and current cost claims. Products can contain new This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 187 and complex technology that can affect warranty estimates with the result that earlier recognised provisions are not always sufficient. Accounting for the business combinations may require estimates of the fair value of acquired assets and the expected amount of realised contingent consideration. In addition, the recoverable amounts of goodwill are determined for all cash generating units annually, or more often if there is an indication of an impairment, where its value in use is determined. The value in use is determined using estimates of future market development, such as growth and profitability, as well as other significant factors. The most important factors underlying such estimates are the net sales growth in the market area, the operating margin, the useful life of the assets, future investment needs, and the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the expected future cash flows. The Group is a defendant in several legal cases arising from its business operations. A provision for a court case is recorded when an unfavourable result is probable, and the loss can be determined with reasonable certainty. The final result can differ from these estimates. Estimates of tax liabilities and receivables relate mainly to the expected result of ongoing tax audits, and recognition of deferred tax receivables from tax losses. Deferred tax assets on unused tax losses and other temporary differences are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profit is available. Estimates of pension obligations regarding defined benefit plans are based on actuarial estimates of factors including future salary increases, discount rates, and return on plan assets. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the Group’s pension obligations and pension costs. Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Wärtsilä Corporation and all subsidiaries over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity. When the Group has less than a majority of voting or similar rights in an entity, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an entity, including the contractual arrangements, voting rights, and potential voting rights. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to the elements of control. Business combinations Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the acquisition method. Accordingly, the purchase price and the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. In the acquisition of additional interest, where the Group already has control, the noncontrolling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the identifiable net assets. The difference between the purchase price, possible equity belonging to the non-controlling interests and the acquired company’s net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities measured at fair value is goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The purchase price includes the consideration paid, measured at fair value. The consideration does not include transaction costs, which are recognised in the statement of income. The transaction costs are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, except the costs resulting from issued debt or equity instruments. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control and disposed subsidiaries until the control ends. All intragroup transactions, dividend distributions, receivables and liabilities, as well as unrealised margins, are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, non-controlling interests have been separated from the profit and the total comprehensive income for the financial period. In the consolidated statement of financial position, noncontrolling interests are shown as a separate item under equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 188 Any contingent consideration (additional purchase price) related to the combination of businesses is measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. It is classified either as a liability or equity. Contingent consideration classified as a liability is measured at fair value on the last day of each financial period, and the resulting loss or gain is recognised through the statement of income. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured. The financial information from subsidiaries in countries with hyperinflation are adjusted according to IAS 29, when the impact of the hyperinflation is considered material for the consolidated financial statements. Associated companies and joint ventur ventures es Associated companies are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the case where the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is established by contractual agreement. Associated companies and joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method from the date the Group’s significant influence or joint control commences until the date it ceases. Investments in associates are initially recorded at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased according to the Group´s share of changes in the net assets of the associate after the date of the acquisition. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s profit for the financial period are shown as a separate item before the Group’s operating result, on the line Share of result of associates and joint ventures. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s changes recorded in other comprehensive income is recorded in the Group’s other comprehensive income. Wärtsilä’s proportion of the associated company’s or joint venture’s post-acquisition accumulated equity is included in the Group’s equity. If the Group’s share of the associated company's or joint venture's losses exceeds its interest in the company, the carrying amount is written down to zero. After this, losses are only recognised if the Group has incurred obligations from the associated company or joint venture. The accumulated exchange rate differences arising from the consolidation of associated companies and joint ventures, which are recorded in equity, are recognised in the statement of income as part of the gain or loss when change in ownership occurs. Non-curr Non-current ent assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and assets and liabilities related to discontinued operations are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use. Classification as held for sale requires that the following criteria are met; the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject to usual and customary terms, the management is committed to the sale, and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Prior to classification as held for sale, the assets or assets and liabilities related to a disposal group in question are measured according to the respective IFRS standards. From the date of classification, non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell, and the recognition of depreciation and amortisation is discontinued. A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The result from the discontinued operations is shown separately in the consolidated statement of income and the comparison figures are restated accordingly. Non-current assets held for sale are presented in the statement of financial position separately from other items. The comparison figures for the statement of financial position are not restated. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 189 Translating the transactions in for foreign eign curr currencies encies The items included in the financial statements are initially recognised in the functional currency, which is defined for each Group company based on its primary economic environment. The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the euro, which is also the functional and presentation currency of Wärtsilä Corporation. For Foreign eign subsidiaries The income and expenses for statements of income and statements of comprehensive income of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euros at the quarterly average exchange rates. Statements of financial position are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. The translation of the profit for the financial period and other comprehensive income using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income as change. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post-acquisition profits and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and are presented as a separate item in equity. The goodwill generated in the acquisition of foreign entities and their fair value adjustments of assets and liabilities are considered as assets and liabilities of foreign entities, which are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. When a foreign subsidiary is sold, the accumulated exchange rate differences recorded in the equity related to the subsidiary are recognised in the statement of income as a part of the gain or loss on sale. Transactions and balances in for foreign eign curr currencies encies Transactions denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the financial period. Exchange rate gains and losses related to trade receivables and liabilities are reported on the applicable line in the statement of income and are included in the operating result. Exchange rate differences related to financial assets and financial liabilities are reported as financial items in the statement of income, except exchange rate differences related to non-current debt that is part of the Group's net investment in a subsidiary. Those are recognised in other comprehensive income and reported as translation differences in equity. Net sales and rrevenue evenue rrecognition ecognition Revenue is presented net of indirect sales taxes, penalties and discounts. Revenue is recognised when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The transaction price may include variable considerations, such as penalties, performance bonuses and discounts. Revenue recognised by the reporting date corresponds to the benefit of the service provided by Wärtsilä to the customer. Revenue from contracts with customers is derived from four main revenue types. All revenue types are represented within both reportable segments, Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business. Product sales consist of sales of spare parts and standard equipment, for which the revenue is recognised at a point in time when the control of the product has transferred to the customer, in general upon delivery of the goods. Product sale contracts generally include one performance obligation. Goods and services -type of revenue involves short-term field service jobs, which include the delivery of a combination of service and equipment. The revenue is recognised at a point in time when the service is rendered. Goods and service -type contracts generally include one performance obligation. Projects contain shortand long-term projects. Depending on the contract terms and the duration of the project, the revenue is recognised at a point in time or over time. Revenue related to Marine long-term projects, such as gas solutions construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and Energy solutions turnkey contracts, is recognised over time. Revenue for tailor-made equipment delivery projects is recognised at a point in time both in Marine and Energy Business. Project contracts generally represent one performance obligation but can under This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 190 certain circumstances contain multiple performance obligations in the Marine business, when a contract contains multiple units of delivery. Long-term agreements contain long-term operating and maintenance agreements for which the revenue is recognised over time. The contracts included in this revenue type generally contain one performance obligation per installation. Contracts with customers often include warranties in line with Wärtsilä’s General terms and conditions, which are regarded as part of the promise to the customer. Extended warranties or warranties purchased as an option are identified as separate performance obligations. Revenue recognised over time is measured in accordance with the input method (progress measured based on costs incurred) when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. When the outcome cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, but the revenue is recorded only to the extent that the company will receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. Any losses are expensed immediately. If revenue for goods and services is recognised at a point in time, it is when control is transferred to the customer. The transfer of control is based mainly on transferring risks and rewards according to the delivery terms. In case there are multiple contracts entered into with the same client at near the same time, the combination of the contracts is evaluated. The Group applies the practical expedient according to IFRS 15.63 concerning significant financing components arising from contracts with customers. In case the lead time between the payments specified in the contract and the corresponding transferral of the promised good or service to the customer is one year or less, no adjustment is made for the effect of a possible significant financing component. The Group also applies the practical expedient stated in IFRS 15.94 according to which an entity can recognise the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortisation period of the asset that the entity would have recognised is one year or less. Wärtsilä has not incurred any costs of obtaining a contract to be recognised as an asset. Employee benefits Pension and other long-term employee benefits Pension plans Group companies in different countries have various pension plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. These pension plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans. The fixed contributions to the defined contribution plans are expensed in the year to which they relate. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay employee benefits. All other plans are defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans are funded through contributions to pension funds or pension insurance companies. Defined benefit plans may be unfunded or wholly or partly funded. The present value of the obligation arising from the defined benefit plans is determined per each plan using actuarial techniques, the projected unit credit method. The Group recognises the defined benefit obligation net of fair value of the plan assets at the end of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses and other remeasurements of the net defined benefit obligation are recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Current service cost is the present value of the postemployment benefit, which is earned by the employees during the year. The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit plan by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Service cost is recognised in employee benefit expenses and the net interest in financial expenses. The defined benefit plans are calculated by qualified actuaries. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 191 Other long-term employee benefits In addition to defined benefit plans, Wärtsilä has other long-term employee benefits. They are presented separately from the defined benefit plans. Similarly, to the accounting for a defined benefit plan, for any other long-term benefit the Group recognises a liability for the obligation net of the fair value of plan assets, if any. Changes in other longterm employee benefits are recognised in the consolidated statement of income. Shar Share-based e-based payments The company’s bonus scheme, which is tied to the price development of the company’s share during a predetermined timeframe, is measured at the fair value of the share on the reporting date and reported in the statement of income for the term-to-maturity of the bonus scheme. An upper limit is set for the bonus. When a bonus scheme ends, and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the bonus is settled in cash and/or shares. Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, and the acquirer’s share of the company’s net identifiable assets and liabilities measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at fair value, including also the acquirer’s previously held equity interest. Resear Research ch and development costs Research costs are expensed in the financial period during which they occur. Development costs are capitalised when it is probable that the development project will generate future economic benefits for the Group and when the related criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility, have been met. These projects involve the development of new or significantly improved products or production processes. Earlier expensed development costs are not capitalised. Capitalised development costs are measured at cost less accumulated amortisations and impairment. Capitalised development costs are amortised and the cost of buildings, machinery, and facilities for development depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, 5-10 years. Amortisations are started when the asset is finished and can be taken into use. Before that, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Grants received for research and development are reported as other operating income. Grants related to capitalised development costs are netted with the costs occurred before the capitalisation. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are recorded at cost if the cost is reliably measurable and the future economic benefits for the Group are probable. Wärtsilä’s other intangible assets include patents, licenses, software, customer relations and other intellectual property rights that can be transferred to a third party. These are measured at cost, except for intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions, which are measured at the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of intangible assets comprises the purchase price and all costs that can be directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets, for which the time limit for the right of use is agreed, are amortised over the life of the contract. Intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions are amortised over their delivery times or estimated useful lives. The general guidelines for scheduled amortisation are: • Software 3-7 years • Development expenses 5-10 years • Other intangible assets 5-20 years This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 192 The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, amortisation periods are adjusted accordingly. Amortisation of intangible assets is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of intangible assets is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Pr Property, operty, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group are measured in the statement of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of an asset includes costs directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Grants received are reported as a reduction in costs. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiaries are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. The borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the asset acquisition, construction or production, and to completion of the asset for its intended use or sale requiring necessarily a considerable length of time, will be capitalised in the statement of financial position as part of the cost of the asset. Other than directly attributable borrowing, costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Subsequent expenditure is included in the cost of an asset only if the future economic benefits for the Group are probable and the costs are reliably measurable. Expenditure related to regular, extensive inspections and maintenance is treated as an investment, capitalised and depreciated during the useful life. All other expenditure, such as ordinary maintenance and repairs, is recognised in the statement of income as an expense as incurred. Depreciation is based on the following estimated useful lives: • Buildings 10-40 years • Machinery and equipment 5-20 years • Other tangible assets 3-10 years Depreciation is expensed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Land is not depreciated, as its useful life is considered as infinite. The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciation periods are adjusted accordingly. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Leases The Group's capitalised lease agreements consist mainly of office premises, vehicles and production machinery and equipment lease agreements. The average lease period for buildings is approximately eight years, and for machinery and equipment approximately four years. The Group recognises a right-of-use (ROU) asset and a lease liability at the commencement of the lease. Whether a contract contains a lease is determined based on whether Wärtsilä has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. At the commencement date, a right-of-use asset as defined by IFRS 16 is measured at cost. The cost of the rightof-use asset shall comprise the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or before the commencement date (less any lease incentives received), any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 193 The nominal lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments, amounts to be expected to be paid under residual value guarantees, the exercise price of reasonably certain extension options, and payments of penalties for terminating a lease in case this reflects the lease term. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this rate can be readily determined. Otherwise the lessee´s incremental borrowing rate is used. The incremental borrowing rates used are the sum of relevant interbank rates and average margin of group loan portfolio and are currency specific. The initial measurement of the lease payments does not include possible variable elements. Variable lease payments not included in the initial measurement of the lease liability are recognised directly in the statement of income. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease plus period covered by an option to extend or option to terminate if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the extension option. Management judgment based on realistic estimates is used when determining the lease term, especially concerning lease agreements containing termination and purchase options and lease agreements with indefinite lease terms. Subsequently, the right-of-use assets are measured at initial measurement less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The right-of-use assets are depreciated and interest on lease liabilities recognised in the statement of income over the lease term. The lease liabilities are subsequently measured at initial recognition less occurring lease payments that are allocated to the principal. Lease payments are presented as repayments of liabilities and related interest expenses. The lease payments are presented in the cash flow from financing activities and the interest related to leases are presented in the cash flow from operating activities. Lease payments related to short-term leases, low-value assets and variable payments are presented in the cash flow from operating activities. Contracts may combine different kinds of obligations to the supplier, which might be a combination of lease components or a combination of lease and non-lease components. These lease and non-lease components are accounted for separately and the consideration is allocated between the components based on relative stand-alone selling prices. The lease and non-lease components are separated. In the case that separating the components is not possible judgement is used to allocate the non-lease component in the accounting. The selection of separating or not the non-lease component from lease is applied to the whole asset class. Modifications to lease agreements may result in adjustments to existing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. A gain or loss arising from a modification and a termination of a lease agreement is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. The Group applies the two available exemptions, which relate to either short-term contracts, in which the lease term is less than 12 months, or low-value assets, which are expensed to other operating expenses. Impairment of assets Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash generating units is reviewed annually for signs of possible impairment or more frequently should any indication of impairment arise. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the goodwill is estimated. In order to define a possible impairment, the Group’s assets are divided up into the smallest possible cash generating units, which are mainly independent of other units and the cash flows of which are separately identifiable and to a large extent independent of the cash flows of other similar units. An impairment loss is recorded when the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is for goodwill is based on the expected discounted future net cash flows resulting from the asset or cash generating unit. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 194 A pre-tax rate which reflects the markets’ position on the time value of money and asset-specific risks is used as the discount rate. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in other operating expenses in the statement of income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed under any circumstances. Other intangible assets and pr property, operty, plant and equipment The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed annually for signs of possible impairment or more frequently should any indication of impairment arise. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and compared to the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss is recorded when the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in other operating expenses in the statement of income. In connection with the recognition of the impairment loss, the useful life of the amortisable/depreciable asset is reassessed. An earlier impairment loss recognised for an asset is reversed if the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount change. However, reversal of impairment shall not exceed the asset’s carrying amount less impairment loss. Determination of the fair value of assets acquir acquired ed thr through ough business combinations In significant business combinations, the Group has used external advisors when estimating the fair values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. For property, plant and equipment, comparisons have been made of the market prices of similar assets, and the depreciation of the acquired assets due to ageing, wear, and other similar factors has been estimated. The fair value measurement of intangible assets is based on estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets. The acquired identifiable intangible assets include typically technology, customer relationships, and trademarks. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Materials and consumables are valued weighted average cost. Finished products are valued at direct purchasing and manufacturing costs and allocated purchasing and manufacturing overhead costs. Work in progress includes costs for direct labour and material costs and allocated overhead costs related to manufacturing and purchasing when control has not yet transferred to the customer. The devaluation of inventory due to obsolete and excess stock, is performed based on the management’s best estimate on the balance sheet date. Analysis of inventory aging, turn over and composition compared to anticipated future use is the basis for the estimates. Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured according to the following categories: financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through the statement of income and financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets are classified according to their cash flow characteristics and the business model they are managed in and accounted for at settlement date. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 195 Financial assets at amortised cost The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes interest-bearing investments, other receivables and trade receivables that are recognised at their anticipated realisable value, which is the original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance for impairment. The Group assesses the possible increase in the credit risk for financial assets measured at amortised cost at the end of each reporting period individually. The methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. The loss allowance is estimated at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current reporting date, if there has not been a significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables and receivables from over time revenue recognition in accordance with the input method, a simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from over time revenue recognition in accordance with the input method should be covered with advance payments collected from customers, so recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. Examples of events giving rise to impairment include a debtor’s serious financial problems, and a debtor’s probable bankruptcy or other financial arrangement. The Group may sell undivided interests in trade receivables on an ongoing and one-time basis to lending institutions. Financial assets sold under these arrangements are excluded from trade receivables in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position at the time of payment from the acquirer, considering that substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred. If the acquirer has not settled the payment to the extent that the ownership, risk and control over the receivable have been substantially transferred, then such financial assets sold are re-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period. Interest-bearing investments are measured at amortised cost and they include loans and receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments and that are not quoted on active markets. They arise when the Group provides a loan or delivers products and services directly to a debtor. They are included in non-current receivables, unless they have a maturity of less than 12 months from the reporting date. Such items are classified as current receivables. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term cash investments. Other short-term cash investments are highly liquid investments that are subject to only minor fluctuations in value and have a maturity of up to three months on the date of acquisition. Cash in hand and deposits held at call are presented at amortised cost. Other cash investments are mainly measured at fair value, except for commercial paper investments that are presented at amortised cost. Credit accounts related to Group cash pool accounts are included in current financial liabilities. Financial assets at fair value thr through ough the statement of income Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include derivatives not included in hedge accounting and other financial investments. Other financial investments include Wärtsilä’s investments in other companies (both listed and unlisted shares) and they are classified as financial assets at fair value through the statement of income. The fair value for listed shares is based on their market value. Gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of shares that are attributable to operating activities are included in operating income, while gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of other shares are included in financial income and expenses. The category includes also derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and are not financial guarantee agreements and other financial assets recognised at fair value through the statement of income, which are financial assets held for trading. Derivatives held for trading, as well as financial assets maturing within 12 months after the end of financial period, are included in current assets. Non-derivative financial assets are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months from the reporting date. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 196 Except for commercial paper investments that are presented at amortised cost, other short-term cash investments are recognised at fair value. Financial assets at fair value thr through ough other compr comprehensive ehensive income Financial assets recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income include derivatives eligible for hedge accounting. Financial liabilities The Group’s financial liabilities are initially recognised and subsequently classified either into financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost or financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income. Financial liabilities are classified as current unless the Group has the unconditional right to defer the payment of the debt to at least 12 months from the end of the financial period. Financial liabilities (or parts thereof) are only derecognised once the debt has extinguished, i.e. once the contractually specified obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires. Financial liabilities rrecognised ecognised at amortised cost Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings. The loans raised by the Group are included in financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost. They are measured at their initial recognition at fair value using the effective interest rate method. After the initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost. Interests on loans are expensed through the statement of income over the maturity of the debt using the effective interest rate method. Financial liabilities rrecognised ecognised at fair value thr through ough the statement of income In the Wärtsilä Group, financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income include derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting. Derivatives Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position and are thereafter measured at their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses from the fair value measurement are recognised in the statement of income as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. Wärtsilä hedges its sales and purchases in foreign currencies with foreign exchange derivatives or currency options. Certain foreign exchange derivatives are eligible for hedge accounting. The ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the financial items in the statement of income for the financial period. Currency forwards are measured at forward rates at the end of the financial period and currency options at their market value at the end of the financial period. In addition, Wärtsilä hedges its interest rate risk with derivatives. Derivatives measur measured ed at fair value thrthrough ough statement of income Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not included in hedge accounting are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Interest rate hedges against Wärtsilä Group’s loan portfolio belong to this group. Changes in the fair value of these interest rate hedges are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Derivatives measur measured ed at fair value thrthrough ough other compr comprehensive ehensive income The effective portion of derivatives eligible for hedge accounting is recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 197 For derivatives included in hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge as regards the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts designated to hedge future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity, provided that the hedging is effective. Any gain or loss in the fair value reserve related to derivatives accumulated through other comprehensive income is reported in the statement of income in the same period as any transactions relating to the hedged obligations or estimates, e.g. as an adjustment to net sales or material and services. The ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the financial items in the statement of income for the financial period. Changes in fair value of foreign exchange derivatives due to interest rate differences are recognised in the statement of income. Fair value hierarhierarchy chy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Contract balances Contract balances consist of customer-related assets and liabilities. When control over goods or services is transferred to a customer before the customer pays the consideration, the receivable is recognised as a contract asset. The contract asset represents the right to future consideration. When the customer pays consideration in advance, or the consideration is due before transferring the contractual performance obligation, the amount received in advance is presented as a contract liability. Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group performs under the contract. Pr Provisions ovisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions can arise, for example, from warranties, environmental risks, litigation, foreseeable losses on projects, and restructuring costs. The amount to be recognised as provisions corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the existing obligation at the end of the financial period. Estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered are recorded as provisions. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated experience. Provisions for restructuring costs are made once the restructuring plan has been approved and the implementation started, or the personnel concerned have been informed of the terms. The plan must indicate which activities and personnel will be affected and the timing and cost of implementation. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations resulting from previous events, the existence of which will only be ascertained once the uncertain event that is beyond the Group’s control materialises. Existing obligations that are not likely to require the fulfilment of a payment obligation or the amount of which cannot be reliably determined, are also considered contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are presented in the notes. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 198 Income taxes The statement of income includes taxes on the Group’s consolidated taxable income for the financial period in accordance with local tax regulations, tax adjustments for previous financial periods, and changes in deferred taxes. Tax effects related to transactions recognised through the statement of income and other events are recognised in the statement of income. Tax effects related to transactions or other events to be presented as components of other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised, respectively, in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Income tax positions are evaluated to identify situations when there might be uncertainty due to tax regulation being subject to interpretation. Provisions for these uncertain tax positions are recognised when it is considered more likely than not that the positions will be challenged by the tax authorities. The provision recognised is based on the estimation of the amount of the final taxes to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are calculated on temporary differences arising from the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the carrying values using the enacted tax rates at the end of the financial period. The statement of financial position includes deferred tax liabilities in their entirety and deferred tax assets at their estimated probable amount. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend to settle the balances on a net basis. Dividends The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is deducted from distributable equity when approved by the company’s Annual General Meeting. Unpaid dividends are presented as liability in the consolidated financial statements. Adoption of new and updated IFRS standar standards ds In 2020, the Group will adopt the following amended standards issued by the IASB. Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020). The amendments are intended to assist entities to determine whether a transaction should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition. The amendments clarify the minimum requirements for a business, remove the assessment of whether market participants are capable of replacing any missing elements, add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive, narrow the definitions of a business and of outputs, and introduce an optional fair value concentration test. The amendments are not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 1 Pr Presentation esentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Err Errors ors (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020). The purpose of the amendments is to align the definition of ‘material’ across the standards and to clarify certain aspects of the definition. The amendments clarify that materiality will depend on the nature or magnitude of information, or both. The amendments are not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Instruments, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measur Measurement ement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosur Disclosureses (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020). These amendments provide certain reliefs in connection with interest rate benchmark reform. The reliefs This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 199 relate to hedge accounting and have the effect that IBOR reform should not generally cause hedge accounting to terminate. Any hedge ineffectiveness should continue to be recorded in the statement of income. The amendments are not expected to have significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. The Group expects to adopt later than 2020 the following new standard issued by the IASB. IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts* (effective from financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021). IFRS 17 applies to all types of insurance contracts (direct insurance and re-insurance) regardless of the type of entities that issue them, as well as to certain guarantees and financial instruments with discretionary participation features. The overall objective is to provide a consistent accounting model for insurance contracts. The impact is under review within the Group. * Not yet endorsed for use by the European Union as of 31 December 2019. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 200 Anchor Notes to the consolidated financial statements Anchor 1. Segment information As of 2019 Wärtsilä is organised into two business areas, Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business, according to its two main customer markets. The Businesses cover both new equipment sales and services for their respective markets. The new organisational structure enables Wärtsilä to accelerate growth and the implementation of its Smart Marine and Smart Energy strategies. Integrating newbuild and service activities enhances customer value by strengthening the focus on complete lifecycle solutions tailored to specific market needs. Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business constitute Wärtsilä’s operating and reportable segments. Wärtsilä's highest operative decision maker (CODM, Chief Operating Decision Maker) is the President and CEO, with the support of the Board of Management and in some cases the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business are both led by Presidents of respective business area and both are supported by Business management teams. Discrete financial information for the Businesses is provided to the CODM to support decision-making. The segment information presented by Wärtsilä reflects the internal management reporting. The segment information is reported to the level of operating result, as items below the operating result are not allocated to segments. The comparable operating result is used by the CODM also to measure the performance, both on segment and Group level. Assets and liabilities are measured on Group level and not allocated to segments. Internal sales between segments is not reported in the management reporting, revenue and costs of sales are recognised directly to the respective customer projects and orders. The main factors affecting the allocation of indirect and administration costs to the segments are net sales and personnel amount. Management considers these allocation principles the most suitable to reflect the cost carried by each segment. The allocation principles are reviewed regularly. Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä Energy Business leads the transition towards a 100% renewable energy future. Wärtsilä helps its customers unlock the value of the energy transition by optimising their energy systems and future-proofing their assets. Wärtsilä’s offering comprises flexible power plants, energy management and storage systems, as well as lifecycle services that enable increased efficiency and guaranteed performance. Wärtsilä’s three main customer segments in the energy markets are utilities, independent power producers and industrial customers. Wärtsilä’s energy solutions are used for a wide variety of applications. These include baseload generation, capacity for grid stability, peaking and loadfollowing generation, and for the integration of wind and solar power. Wärtsilä provides its customers with a comprehensive understanding of energy systems, including fully integrated assets and software, complete with value adding lifecycle services. Wärtsilä Marine Business Wärtsilä’s aim is to lead the industry’s transformation towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem. Building on a sound foundation of being a leading provider of innovative products, integrated solutions and lifecycle services to the marine and oil & gas industries, Wärtsilä Marine aims to unlock new customer values through connectivity, digitalisation and smart technology. Wärtsilä provides marine power solutions, processing solutions and voyage solutions, which are supported by a broad scope of services ranging from spare part delivery to optimising customer operations, providing performance guarantees and offering cyber intelligence and incident support. Wärtsilä Marine Business derives its revenues from the following products and services: Marine power solutions Processing solutions Voyage solutions · Power supply · Water and waste treatment · Automation, navigation & communication · Power conversion · Gas solutions for marine · Simulation & training solutions · Propulsion and land-based applications · Fleet operations solutions · Exhaust treatment · Ship traffic control solutions · Special products · Entertainment systems Wärtsilä’s marine customer base covers all the main vessel segments, including traditional merchant vessels, gas carriers, cruise & ferry, navy, and special vessels. In the oil & gas industry, Wärtsilä is active in serving offshore installations and related industry vessels, as well as land-based gas installations. Wärtsilä’s customers comprise ship owners, shipyards and ship management companies. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 201 In Wärtsilä Marine Business, order intake and net sales for retrofit scrubber projects have been transferred from services to new equipment. The comparison period figures for the segment reporting and the service information have been adjusted to reflect the new reporting structure. MEUR 2019 2018 Net sales Wärtsilä Marine Business 3 330 2 815 Wärtsilä Energy Business 1 840 2 359 Total 5 170 5 174 Depr Depreciation, eciation, amortisation and impairment Wärtsilä Marine Business -147 -102 Wärtsilä Energy Business -33 -28 Total -180 -130 Shar Sharee of rresult esult of associates and joint ventur ventures es Wärtsilä Marine Business -9 13 Total -9 13 Operating rresult esult Wärtsilä Marine Business 237 349 Wärtsilä Energy Business 125 194 Total 362 543 Operating rresult esult as a per percentage centage of net sales (%) Wärtsilä Marine Business 7.1 12.4 Wärtsilä Energy Business 6.8 8.2 Total 7.0 10.5 Comparable operating rresult esult Wärtsilä Marine Business 305 380 Wärtsilä Energy Business 152 197 Total 457 577 Comparable operating rresult esult as a per percentage centage of net sales (%) Wärtsilä Marine Business 9.1 13.5 Wärtsilä Energy Business 8.3 8.4 Total 8.8 11.2 Alter Alternative native performance measur measureses Wärtsilä provides certain financial performance measures, which are not defined by IFRS. These alternative performance measures are followed and used by management to measure the Group's performance and financial position. These alternative performance measures also provide useful information to the capital markets. The alternative performance measures should not be evaluated in isolation from the IFRS measures. The alternative performance measure calculation definitions are disclosed in Calculations of financial ratios. Wärtsilä discloses comparable performance measures to enhance comparability between periods. Certain income and expenses are presented as items affecting comparability when they have significant impact on the consolidated statement of income. Items affecting comparability consist of This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 202 income and expenses, which result from restructuring activities aiming to adjust the capacity of Wärtsilä’s operations. They may also include other income and expenses incurred outside Wärtsilä’s normal course of business, such as impairment charges, acquisition related costs, settlements recorded as a result of legal proceedings with third parties or unforeseen obligations from earlier discontinued businesses. The reconciliation of comparable operating result to operating result is presented in the table below: Measur Measures ofit and items af profit es of pr affecting fecting comparability MEUR 2019 2018 Comparable adjusted EBIT EBITAA 498 621 Purchase price allocation amortisation -41 -43 Comparable operating rresult esult 457 577 Items afaffecting fecting comparability: Restructuring costs Social plan costs -31 -8 Impairment and write-downs -23 -19 Other restructuring costs and transfer costs -17 -2 Other items affecting comparability Impairment and write-downs -13 Litigation settlements -6 Acquisition related costs -6 Other -4 Items afaffecting fecting comparability, total -95 -35 Operating rresult esult 362 543 Entity wide information In addition to segment information, Wärtsilä reports the services revenue and order intake for both segments. Wärtsilä continues to report information for the geographical areas Finland, other European countries, Asia, the Americas, and other. In the geographical information net sales are split by customer destination and non-current assets by customer origin. Non-current assets consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, and investments in associates and joint ventures. Geographical information During the financial period 1 January 31 December 2019 and 1 January 31 December 2018 Wärtsilä did not have any individual significant customers or countries. The sales to the USA represented 11% (14) and sales to China 11% (7) of the total net sales. 2019 2018 Non-current Non-current MEUR Net sales assets Net sales assets Finland 78 324 56 242 Other European countries 1 612 1 595 1 429 1 534 Asia 1 968 114 1 867 90 The Americas 1 098 271 1 245 266 Other 414 7 577 5 Total 5 170 2 310 5 174 2 137 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 203 Service information MEUR 2019 2018 Net sales Marine service 1 639 1 577 Energy service 863 842 Total 2 502 2 419 Anchor 2. Acquisitions Acquisitions 2019 Ships Electr Electronic onic Services Ltd In May, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Ships Electronic Services Ltd (“SES”), a UK based company specialising in navigation and communication electronics, installation, maintenance and repair services, mainly for commercial and leisure vessels. SES’ turnover was approximately GBP 10 million and the company employed a staff of 47. The enterprise value of the transaction was GBP 3.2 million. The consideration paid and the impact on profit for the financial period are not significant. Acquisitions 2018 Transas Gr Group oup In May, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Transas, a global company headquartered in the U.K. Transas is a global market leader in marine navigation solutions that include complete bridge systems, digital products and electronic charts. The company is also a leader in professional training and simulation services, ship traffic control, as well as monitoring, and support. The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid for Transas, the cash flow from the acquisition, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 183 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 183 Cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 183 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired company -12 Total cash flow fr from om the acquisition 171 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 204 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition MEUR Intangible assets 66 Property, plant and equipment 2 Inventories 8 Trade and other receivables 50 Deferred tax assets 2 Cash and cash equivalents 12 Total assets 140 Provisions 3 Interest-bearing debt 29 Trade payables and other liabilities 39 Deferred tax liabilities 13 Total liabilities 83 Total net assets 57 Goodwill 113 The fair values of the acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of the acquisition (including technology, customer relations, and trademarks) amounted to EUR 55 million. The fair value of the current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 50 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 113 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in digital marine solutions and services. The acquisition takes Wärtsilä a significant step closer to achieving its mission of enabling sustainable societies with smart technologies. It will also speed delivery on the company’s promise to disrupt the industry by establishing an ecosystem that is digitally connected across the entire supply chain, through applications that are secure, smart and cloud-based. During 2018 the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 3 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o forma If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 5,213 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, which arose on the date of the acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018. Other acquisitions In February, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Trident B.V. and LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. In October, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Burriel Navarro, S.L. Trident B.V. is a Netherland based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. With this acquisition, Wärtsilä builds in-house competence, captures the full potential of services’ product synergies, and strengthens its position in the market. LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. is an American engineering company serving customers within the marine and energy sectors as well as other industries. It specialises in cast iron repairs. The acquisition strengthens Wärtsilä’s service portfolio for customers operating multiple brands. Burriel Navarro, S.L is a company operating in underwater services in the main ports of Spain. The acquisition supports the growth of Wärtsilä’s underwater services and expands the company’s local presence in the European market. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 205 The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid, the cash flow from the acquisitions and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition dates. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 27 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 27 Cash flow from the acquisitions MEUR Consideration paid in cash 23 Contingent consideration 4 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -1 Total cash flow frfrom om the acquisitions 26 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions MEUR Intangible assets 10 Property, plant and equipment 2 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 6 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Total assets 19 Trade payables and other liabilities 4 Deferred tax liabilities 3 Total liabilities 6 Total net assets 13 Goodwill 13 The fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the dates of the acquisitions (including technology, customer relations, and trademarks) amounted to EUR 10 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 6 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 13 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in advanced underwater services. During 2018, the acquisition-related costs the Group incurred related to external legal fees and due diligence costs were insignificant. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o forma If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2018, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 5,176 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, which arose on the dates of the acquisitions would have been the same if the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 206 Anchor 3. Disposals Disposals 2019 In 2019, there were no disposals. Disposals 2018 Disposal of pumps business On 31 October 2018, Wärtsilä divested its pumps business to Solix Group, a Scandinavian investment company. Wärtsilä Pumps has belonged to the Wärtsilä Marine Solutions organisation and became part of the Group along with the acquisition of Hamworthy in 2012. The Wärtsilä Pumps business recorded sales of approximately EUR 50 million in 2017. The cash consideration of the transaction was EUR 45 million, and in addition EUR 20 million of the transaction price was reported as a receivable in the non-current other receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position in 2018. Wärtsilä reported a gain of EUR 27 million in other operating income from the transaction. Other disposals On 20 October 2018, Wärtsilä sold its majority interest in Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. The consideration received and the impact on profit for the financial period were not significant. Anchor 4. Assets held for sale In December, Wärtsilä announced the divestment of shares in Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH (ELAC Nautik) to Cohort plc. ELAC Nautik's main market focus is on hydroacoustic products, including sonars, underwater communication systems and echo systems for small and medium sized military submarines. Wärtsilä, through its Smart Marine Ecosystem approach, is leading the marine industry’s transition into a new era of high efficiency, greater safety, and outstanding environmental performance. As this is Wärtsilä's core strategy for Marine Business, and ELAC Nautik business has no clear synergistic link to Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine activities in transforming the marine sector, the portfolio is aligned to those growth businesses that can drive this transition. Additionally, Wärtsilä has started preparations to divest its Entertainment business, which is also classified as assets held for sale. The assets held for sale belong to the Wärtsilä Marine Business segment and they are valued at the lower of book value or fair value. Subject to approvals, completion of these transactions is expected in the early part of 2020. Items on statement of financial position MEUR 31.12.2019 Property, plant and equipment 3 Right-of-use assets 4 Deferred tax assets 8 Inventories 18 Other receivables, current 39 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Assets held for sale 82 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 4 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 207 Deferred tax liabilities 8 Other liabilities, non-current 8 Other liabilities, current 47 Liabilities dir directly ectly attributable to assets held for sale 68 Net assets 14 Anchor 5. Disaggregation of revenue Revenue from the contracts with customers is derived over time and at a point in time in the following revenue types. Net sales by rrevenue evenue type MEUR 2019 2018 Pr Products oducts Wärtsilä Marine Business 846 765 Wärtsilä Energy Business 338 380 Total 1 184 1 145 Goods and services Wärtsilä Marine Business 509 469 Wärtsilä Energy Business 93 88 Total 603 557 Pr Projects ojects Wärtsilä Marine Business 1 786 1 377 Wärtsilä Energy Business 1 113 1 615 Total 2 899 2 992 Long-term agr agreements eements Wärtsilä Marine Business 189 204 Wärtsilä Energy Business 296 276 Total 484 480 Total 5 170 5 174 Timing of satisfying performance obligations MEUR 2019 2018 At a point in time Wärtsilä Marine Business 2 622 2 210 Wärtsilä Energy Business 1 105 1 531 Total 3 728 3 740 Over time Wärtsilä Marine Business 708 606 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 208 Wärtsilä Energy Business 735 828 Total 1 442 1 434 Total 5 170 5 174 Product sales consist of sales of spare parts and standard equipment for which the revenue is recognised at a point in time when the control of the products has transferred to customer, in general at the delivery of the goods. Goods and services -type of revenue involves short-term field service jobs, which includes the delivery of a combination of service and equipment. The revenue is recognised at a point in time when service is rendered. Projects contain short-term and long-term projects. Depending on the contract terms and the duration of the project, the revenue is recognised at a point in time or over time. Revenue related to long-term projects, such as construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and energy solutions contracts, is recognised over time. Revenue for tailor-made equipment delivery projects is recognised at a point in time. Long-term agreements contain long-term operating and maintenance agreements for which the revenue is recognised over time. Anchor 6. Other operating income MEUR 2019 2018 Capital gains 15 32 Government grants 8 7 Sale of scrapped material 3 3 Sale of by-products 2 2 Rental income 1 Income related to cancelled orders* 2 10 Insurance indemnities 9 4 Other 27 24 Total 67 80 * Expenses related to cancelled orders are recorded on respective expense accounts. Anchor 7. Material and services MEUR 2019 2018 Purchases during the financial period -1 723 -1 598 Change in inventories 7 40 External services -1 287 -1 294 Total -3 003 -2 852 Anchor 8. Employee benefit expenses MEUR 2019 2018 Wages and salaries 1 028 954 Pension costs This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 209 Defined benefit plans 12 7 Defined contribution plans 74 71 Other compulsory personnel costs 146 142 Total 1 260 1 175 Management remuneration is specified in Note 32. Related party disclosures. Long-term incentive schemes Wages and salaries include EUR 4 million expenses arising from share based long-term incentive schemes (previous year positive impact EUR 21 million). At the end of 2019 Wärtsilä had three long-term incentive schemes active. These schemes are tied to the price development of the company’s share during a pre-determined timeframe, and an upper limit is set for the payable incentive. When an incentive scheme ends and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the incentive is settled in cash (2017-2019 and 2018-2020 incentives schemes) or in company shares (2019-2021 incentive scheme). The Board of Management members shall acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net bonuses received, until the share ownership corresponding to the individuals' annual gross base salary level has been achieved. The payment for incentive schemes is based on the share price development during a three-year period. The 2017-2019 incentive scheme comprises 4,332,000 rights, the 2018-2020 incentive scheme 3,609,000 rights and the 2019-2021 incentive scheme 5,108,000 rights. For the incentive scheme 2017-2019 the basis of a share price is EUR 16.19, for the incentive scheme 2018-2020 EUR 22.58 and for the incentive scheme 2019-2021 EUR 16.76. The incentive schemes take into account 100% of dividends paid, and the paid bonus cannot exceed EUR 6.07 per incentive right in the 2017-2019 scheme, EUR 8.47 in the 2018-2020 scheme or EUR 6.56 in the 2019-2021 scheme. The incentive rights, which are settled in cash, are valued and recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date taking into account the proportion of vesting period passed. The incentive rights, which are settled in company shares, are valued at fair value at the grant date of the scheme and expensed evenly during the vesting period. The fair value determined for the incentive right in 2019-2021 scheme is EUR 2.69. 2019 2018 Personnel on average 19 110 18 899 Personnel at the end of the financial period 18 795 19 294 Anchor 9. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment MEUR 2019 2018 Development expenses 11 11 Purchase price allocation amortisation 41 43 Other intangible assets 10 12 Buildings and structures 13 16 Land and buildings, right-of-use assets 43 Machinery and equipment 40 43 Machinery and equipment, right-of-use assets 6 Other tangible assets 1 1 Impairments 15 3 Total 180 130 Anchor 10. Other operating expenses MEUR 2019 2018 Travel costs 134 145 Rental costs 48 90 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 210 Legal and consultancy costs 95 89 Information technology costs 65 61 Other personnel related costs 59 58 Administrative costs 49 51 Other 128 153 Total 578 648 Anchor 11. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2019 2018 Interest income on loans and receivables 1 2 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through the statement of income 23 20 Interest income on investments at amortised cost 2 1 Other financial income 1 1 Total financial income 27 24 Interest expenses on financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost -10 -11 Interest expenses on lease liabilities recognised at amortised cost -5 Interest expenses on financial liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -36 -34 Net interest from defined benefit plans -3 -3 Changes in fair values of financial assets/liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -5 -4 Write-down of financial receivables -1 Exchange rate differences* -10 -6 Fee expenses -2 -2 Other financial expenses -4 -4 Total financial expenses -74 -65 Total -47 -40 * In 2019, the result from the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges related to cancelled orders, EUR -5 million (-2), and exchange rate differences from unhedged internal loans, EUR -8 million (-5) were included in exchange rate differences in the consolidated statement of income. Anchor 12. Income taxes MEUR 2019 2018 Income taxes for the financial period -130 -126 for prior financial periods -8 1 Change in deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 43 10 changes in tax rates -2 1 Total -97 -116 Reconciliation of efeffective fective tax rate: Profit before taxes 315 502 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 211 Tax calculated at the domestic corporate tax rate 20.0% -63 -100 Effect of changed tax rates -2 1 Effect of different tax rates in foreign subsidiaries 15 6 Effect of income not subject to tax and non-deductible expenses -1 2 Effect of share of result of associates and joint ventures -2 3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses carried forward 1 Unrecognised taxes on losses carried forward -13 -17 Other taxes* -10 -10 Other temporary differences** -13 -1 Income taxes for prior financial periods -8 1 Tax charge in the consolidated statement of income -97 -116 Ef Effective fective tax rate (%) 30.7 23.1 * Other taxes consist mainly of withholding taxes not utilised and taxes not directly based on taxable income. ** Includes EUR -11 million utilisation of deferred tax assets. Income taxes related to other comprehensive income are presented in Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in Note 24. Deferred taxes. Wärtsilä is subject to tax audits in some countries, which can result in tax reassessment decisions and obligations to pay additional taxes and related payments. Anchor 13. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the adjusted average number of shares outstanding. During the financial periods there were no programmes with dilutive effect. MEUR 2019 2018 Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company 217 386 Thousands of shares adjusted average number of shares outstanding* 591 723 591 723 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.37 0.65 * Additional information on the number of shares is presented in Note 26. Equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 212 Anchor 14. Intangible assets Goodwill 2019 MEUR 2019 Wärtsilä Gr Group oup Wärtsilä on 1 January 1 355 Acquisitions -1 Changes in exchange rates 26 Total 1 380 Goodwill allocation Goodwill arising from business acquisitions is allocated to the Group cash generating units (CGU) that are the Group´s operating segments Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business. As of 1 January 2019 the goodwill formerly allocated to the Group CGU has been allocated to the respective CGUs based on the fair value of the operating segments. The operating segments represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored. The companies acquired during the financial period are integrated to the the respective CGU at the acquisition date. The goodwill per CGU is presented in the table below. Goodwill per cash generating unit MEUR 2019 Wärtsilä Marine Business 847 Wärtsilä Energy Business 533 Total 1 380 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill on 30 September. Impairment of goodwill is also carried out when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount from the CGUs is determined based on value-in-use calculation. The calculation is made on a discounted cash flow method basis, derived from the order book and five-year cash flow projections from management approved strategic plans. The estimated cash flow of the CGUs is based on utilisation of the existing property, plant and equipment in their current condition with normal maintenance capital expenditure, excluding any potential future acquisitions. Cash flow beyond the five-year period is calculated using the terminal value method. The terminal growth rate used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long-term growth. The terminal growth rate used is 2%. The key driver for the valuation is the growth in the global economy and in particular the development of the global power market, the global shipbuilding industry and the demand for related services. The projected development of total costs in the market affects the profitability, whereas no single cost item is considered to have a material impact. The valuation driver for the new equipment sales is the growth in the global economy, whereas for after sales the drivers are also the demand for related services and the projected development in labour cost. The applied discount rates are the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) for each CGU as defined by Wärtsilä. The components of the WACC rates are risk-free rate, market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt equity ratio. Wärtsilä has used a WACC rate of 9.1% in the calculations for Wärtsilä Marine Business CGU and a WACC rate of 9.4% for Wärtsilä Energy Business CGU. As a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for the CGUs was recognised for the financial period ended 31 December 2019. The recoverable amounts from both the CGUs exceeded their respective carrying value substantially. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 213 Sensitivity analysis The management has assessed that no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions would cause carrying amount of either CGU to exceed its recoverable amount. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out for the valuation of the recoverable amount for each CGU by changing the assumptions used in the calculation. A change in an assumption that would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount is presented in the table below separately for each CGU. Change Wärtsilä Marine Business Pre-tax discount rate increase more than 15 percentage points Terminal growth rate decrease more than 35 percentage points Profitability decrease more than 66 percentage Wärtsilä Energy Business Pre-tax discount rate increase more than 13 percentage points Terminal growth rate decrease more than 28 percentage points Profitability decrease more than 64 percentage In management’s opinion, the changes in the basic assumptions shall not be seen as an indication that these factors are likely to materialise. The sensitivity analyses are hypothetical and should therefore be treated with caution. Goodwill 2018 Goodwill allocation Goodwill arising from business acquisitions is allocated to the Group cash generating unit (CGU) that is the Group´s operating segment. The operating segment represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored. The companies acquired during the financial period are integrated to the Group CGU at the acquisition date. Previously separately presented CGUs have also been integrated to the Group CGU during the financial period. The goodwill per CGU is presented in the table below: Goodwill per cash generating unit MEUR 2018 Wärtsilä on 1 January 1 237 Acquisitions and disposals 113 Changes in exchange rates 4 Total 1 355 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill on 30 September. Impairment of goodwill is also carried out when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount from the CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculation. The calculation is made on a discounted cash flow method basis, derived from the order book and five-year cash flow projections from management approved strategic plans. The estimated cash flow of CGU is based on utilisation of the existing property, plant and equipment in their current condition with normal maintenance capital expenditure, excluding any potential future acquisitions. Cash flow beyond the five-year period is calculated using the terminal value method. The terminal growth rate used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long-term growth. The terminal growth rate used is 2%. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 214 The key driver for the valuation is the growth in the global economy and in particular the development of the global power market, the global shipbuilding industry and the demand for related services. The projected development of total costs in the market affects the profitability, whereas no single cost item is considered to have a material impact. The valuation driver for the new equipment sales is the growth in the global economy, whereas for after sales the drivers are also the demand for related services and the projected development in labour cost. The applied discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) as defined by Wärtsilä. The components of the WACC are riskfree rate, market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt equity ratio. When defining the WACC for 2018, it has been considered that the general interest rate is currently on a lower level. Wärtsilä has used a WACC of 8.9% in the calculations. As a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for the CGU was recognised for the financial period ended 31 December 2018. The recoverable amount from the CGU exceeded its carrying value remarkably. Sensitivity analysis The management has assessed that no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the CGU´s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Sensitivity analysis have been carried out for the valuation of the recoverable amount for the CGU by changing the assumptions used in the calculation. A change in an assumption that would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount is presented in the table below: Change Pre-tax discount rate increase more than 20 percentage points Terminal growth rate decrease more than 68 percentage points Profitability decrease more than 82 percentage In management’s opinion, the changes in the basic assumptions shall not be seen as an indication that these factors are likely to materialise. The sensitivity analyses are hypothetical and should therefore be treated with caution. Intangible assets 2019 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2019 141 53 857 1 361 2 411 Changes in exchange rates 11 26 37 Acquisitions 1 -1 Additions 1 55 8 65 Decreases and other changes -1 -13 -14 Reclassifications 28 -24 -4 Cost on 31 December 2019 169 85 860 1 386 2 500 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2019 -94 -565 -6 -665 Changes in exchange rates -7 -8 Accumulated amortisation on decreases and other changes 11 11 Amortisation during the financial period -11 -52 -62 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2019 -104 -613 -6 -723 Carrying amount on 31 December 2019 65 85 247 1 380 1 776 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 215 Development costs for internally generated assets capitalised during the financial period amounted to EUR 49 million (30). The carrying amount was EUR 135 million (91). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 41 million (43) and the carrying amount was EUR 209 million (248). 2018 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2018 142 21 783 1 243 2 189 Changes in exchange rates -2 4 2 Acquisitions and disposals -2 10 66 113 187 Additions 2 35 8 1 45 Decreases and other changes -12 -1 -13 Reclassifications -13 13 Cost on 31 December 2018 141 53 857 1 361 2 411 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2018 -85 -521 -6 -612 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 Accumulated amortisation on decreases and other changes 2 12 1 15 Amortisation during the financial period -11 -55 -66 Impairments -1 -1 -2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2018 -94 -565 -6 -665 Carrying amount on 31 December 2018 47 53 292 1 355 1 747 Anchor 15. Property, plant and equipment 2019 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress Land and and and Other and strucequipadvances tangible MEUR water tures ment paid assets Total Cost on 1 January 2019 31 297 780 40 24 1 171 Transfer to right-of-use assets -1 -1 -2 Changes in exchange rates 1 2 3 Additions 3 27 18 1 49 Decreases -1 -18 -30 -50 Reclassifications 1 22 -25 -2 Cost on 31 December 2019 30 283 798 32 25 1 167 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2019 -1 -177 -648 -21 -847 Changes in exchange rates -1 -1 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 11 29 41 Depreciation during the financial period -13 -40 -1 -54 Impairments -1 -1 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation and impairment on 31 December 2019 -1 -179 -659 -21 -860 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 216 Carrying amount on 31 December 2019 29 104 139 31 3 307 2018 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress Land and and and Other and strucequipadvances tangible MEUR water tures ment paid assets Total Cost on 1 January 2018 43 313 787 18 23 1 185 Changes in exchange rates -1 -1 -3 Acquisitions and disposals -9 -22 -19 -50 Additions 1 5 23 35 64 Decreases -4 -4 -22 -30 Reclassifications 7 12 -14 5 Cost on 31 December 2018 31 297 780 40 24 1 171 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2018 -2 -172 -642 -20 -835 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 1 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and disposals 1 11 41 53 Depreciation during the financial period -16 -43 -1 -60 Impairments -2 -2 Reclassifications -1 -4 -5 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation and impairment on 31 December 2018 -1 -177 -648 -21 -847 Carrying amount on 31 December 2018 30 120 132 39 3 324 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 1 3 Anchor 16. Leases MEUR 2019 Land and buildings, right-of-use assets Carrying amount on 1 January 2019 203 Additions 28 Depreciation and impairment -43 Decreases and reclassifications -14 Carrying amount on 31 December 2019 174 Machinery and equipment, right-of-use assets Carrying amount on 1 January 2019 12 Additions 6 Depreciation and impairment -6 Decreases and reclassifications -1 Carrying amount on 31 December 2019 11 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 217 Lease liabilities Carrying amount on 1 January 2019 215 Additions 33 Interest expense 2 Payments -49 Other adjustments -13 Carrying amount on 31 December 2019 188 Total lease liabilities Non-current 146 Current 42 MEUR 2019 Amounts rrecognised ecognised in statement of income Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets -49 Interest expense -5 Expense – short-term leases -32 Expense – leases of low-value assets -6 Expense – variable lease payments -4 Anchor 17. Investments in associates and joint ventures MEUR 2019 2018 Carrying amount on 1 January 66 83 Investments 1 Share of result -9 13 Dividends -1 -17 Translation differences -1 -1 Reduction of share capital in associates and joint ventures -13 Impairment -13 Carrying amount on 31 December 42 66 Summary of financial information (100%): 2019 Profit for the LiabilNet financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventur ventures es Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 39 19 20 30 2 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 71 68 3 19 -21 CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd. China 49.0 11 2 9 9 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 96 20 76 78 1 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 218 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. factory is manufacturing medium and large bore medium speed diesel and dual-fuel engines at Lingang, Shanghai. Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. manufactures Wärtsilä 50DF dual-fuel engines for LNG carriers and other marine application in Mokpo, South Korea. Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. manufactures marine auxiliary engines in Shanghai, China. CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd. manufactures advanced electronical and automation solutions for cruise industry. 2018 Profit for the LiabilNet financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventur ventures es Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 26 19 8 17 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 111 91 20 164 29 CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd. China 49.0 2 2 1 -1 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 70 19 51 49 -3 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 Anchor 18. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2019 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-curr Non-currentent financial assets Interest-bearing investments 1 1 1 Trade receivables 19 19 19 Derivatives 5 5 5 Other investments 18 18 18 Other receivables 2 2 2 Curr Current ent financial assets Trade receivables 1 232 1 232 1 232 Trade receivables for sale 4 4 4 Derivatives 5 14 18 18 Other financial receivables 6 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 343* 15 358 358 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 600 48 14 1 662 1 662 Non-curr Non-currentent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 997 997 1 005 Derivatives 14 2 16 16 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 99 99 99 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 219 Trade payables 624 624 624 Derivatives 1 6 7 7 Other financial liabilities 4 4 4 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 724 15 8 1 747 1 756 * In addition, the Group has cash and cash equivalents measured at amortised cost of EUR 11 million related to assets held for sale. 2018 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing investments 3 3 3 Trade receivables 49 49 49 Derivatives 3 3 3 Other investments 16 16 16 Other receivables 20 20 20 Curr Current ent financial assets Trade receivables 1 219 1 219 1 219 Trade receivables for sale 3 3 3 Derivatives 5 3 8 8 Other financial receivables 3 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 466 21 487 487 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 758 52 3 1 813 1 813 Non-curr Non-current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 748 748 754 Derivatives 16 16 16 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 74 74 74 Trade payables 596 596 596 Derivatives 27 36 63 63 Other financial liabilities 9 9 9 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 428 43 36 1 507 1 513 Fair value hierar hierarchy chy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Due to the short nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be same as their fair value. Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: • the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by using forward rates at the closing date • the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves • the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 220 2019 2018 MEUR Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Other investments 18 16 Interest-bearing investments, non-current 1 3 Other receivables, non-current 2 3 Derivatives 24 12 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt, non-current* 1 005 754 Derivatives 23 79 * Measured at amortised cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. Additional information on financial liabilities is presented in Note 28. Financial liabilities. Other investments Other investments include unlisted shares carried at fair value. These investments are valued using certain DCF models where critical assumptions relate to WACC level and expected cash flows from future dividends. However, the results from different scenarios vary a lot. Thus, the management considers that the valuation at amortised cost is the best estimate of fair value. MEUR 2019 2018 Carrying amount on 1 January 16 13 Acquired shares 2 3 Carrying amount on 31 December 18 16 In 2019, the cost for other unlisted shares (level 3) was EUR 18 million (16), and the market value of them was EUR 18 million (16). Anchor 19. Inventories MEUR 2019 2018 Materials and consumables 484 471 Work in progress 736 615 Finished products 53 35 Advances paid 93 43 Total 1 365 1 165 In 2019, EUR 4 million (1) impairment for obsolete inventories has been recognised in the consolidated statement of income. Acquisition-related increase in inventories is EUR 1 million (8). In 2019, the principles for estimating inventory write-down have been adjusted. The current principles are based on a range of coverage, which specifies how long the available quantity of material at a certain date or period can cover the requirements in a subsequent period. In 2019, the total impact is EUR 11 million from the change of write-down estimates to the value of the inventories. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 221 Anchor 20. Contract balances MEUR 2019 2018 Trade receivables 1 255 1 271 Contract assets 515 557 Contract liabilities Advances received 452 584 Deferred income 465 345 Trade rreceivables eceivables and contract assets Non-current 19 49 Current 1 752 1 779 Contract liabilities Non-current 38 41 Current 880 888 Revenue recognised in the financial period that was included in the contract liability on 1 January 888 724 Unsatisfied performance obligations, all revenue types 7 427 7 242 of which remaining performance obligations from projects and contracts under execution 3 959 3 794 Trade receivables related to contracts with customers are non-interest-bearing receivables. Trade receivables have decreased during 2019 due to reclassification to assets held for sale as well as through collection of overdue receivables. Contract assets primarily relate to the Group’s right to consideration for transferred goods or services, but which is not yet billed at the reporting date. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional. The contract liabilities mainly relate to the advance consideration received from customers for contracts, but for which the corresponding good or service has not yet been transferred. The contract assets and liabilities arise from long-term service agreements and projects recognised over time such as gas solutions construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and energy solutions turnkey contracts. The decrease in contract assets in 2019 contains reclassification to assets held for sale and usual business-related variation mainly in Marine Business projects. In addition, the accrued revenue has decreased in long-term service agreements. The decrease in contract liabilities in 2019 arises from usual business-related variation in projects in both segments. Anchor 21. Other receivables MEUR 2019 2018 Derivatives 24 12 Interest and other financial items 6 3 Insurance receivables 6 5 Rental accruals 3 3 Prepaid expenses 14 6 Other accruals 41 42 Loan receivables 2 3 Defined benefit plans 1 VAT receivables 111 104 Other* 88 83 Total 296 262 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 222 Non-curr Non-currentent 15 34 Curr Current ent 281 228 * Other receivables includes payroll related tax receivables of EUR 9 million (9) in Brazil, which cannot be utilised likely within a year. Other receivables also includes a receivable of EUR 21 million (20) relating to disposal of pumps business. The receivable has been classified as current receivable in 2019. Anchor 22. Cash and cash equivalents MEUR 2019 2018 Cash and bank balances* 343 461 Cash equivalents 15 26 Total 358 487 * EUR 171 million (128) of cash and bank balances relate to cash in countries where repatriation is limited due to local regulation and consequently the cash is not immediately available to the parent company. In addition, the Group has cash and cash equivalents of EUR 11 million related to assets held for sale. Anchor 23. Net debt reconciliation Net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt MEUR 2019 2018 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 851 748 Lease liabilities, non-current 146 Interest-bearing debt, current 58 74 Lease liabilities, current 42 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing liabilities 1 096 823 Interest-bearing receivables -1 -3 Cash and cash equivalents -358 -487 Cash and cash equivalents pertaining to assets held for sale -11 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing assets -370 -490 Total net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt 726 333 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 223 Net debt rreconciliation econciliation Carrying Carrying Changes amount on amount on in Other 31 1 January Cash exchange non-cash December MEUR 2019 flows rates movements 2019 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 746* 104 851 Interest-bearing debt, current 73* -11 -5 58 Lease liabilities 215** -52 26 188 Interest-bearing receivables -3 2 -1 Cash and cash equivalents -487 119 -369*** Net debt 545 162 -5 26 726 * Finance lease liabilities have been classified in line with IFRS 16 separately under lease liabilities. ** Lease liabilities according to IFRS 16. *** Includes cash and cash equivalents pertaining to assets held for sale. Carrying Carrying Changes amount on amount on in Acquistions 31 1 January Cash exchange and December MEUR 2018 flows rates disposals 2018 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 517 231 -1 748 Interest-bearing debt, current 102 -40 -6 18 74 Interest-bearing receivables -5 -2 6 -3 Cash and cash equivalents -379 -101 4 -11 -487 Net debt 234 87 -2 13 333 Anchor 24. Deferred taxes Changes in deferr deferreded taxes during 2019 Recognised in the conOther solidated compreTransla31 1 January statement hensive tion difAcquisiDecember MEUR 2019 of income income ferences tions 2019 Deferr Deferreded tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 18 17 -1 34 Pension obligations 21 1 5 27 Provisions 28 7 35 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 5 1 6 Fair value reserve 9 -3 6 Other temporary differences 49 6 -1 55 Reclassification to assets held for sale -8 Total 129 32 2 -2 155 Deferr Deferreded tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 66 -10 2 59 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 224 Fair value reserve 1 1 Other temporary differences 32 32 Reclassification to assets held for sale -8 Total 99 -10 1 1 83 Net deferr deferred ed tax assets/liabilities 30 41 1 -1 -2 72 On 31 December 2019, the Group had temporary differences on which no deferred tax assets were booked totalling EUR 64 million (63), as it is uncertain if they will be realised. Most of the unrecognised deferred tax assets are related to cumulative tax losses. Of these, EUR 29 million (18) will expire within the next five years and the rest will expire later or never. Most of the cumulative tax losses on which deferred tax assets have been booked will never expire. Changes in deferr deferred ed taxes during 2018 Recognised in the conOther solidated compreTranslaAcquisi31 1 January statement hensive tion diftions and December MEUR 2018 of income income ferences disposals 2018 Deferr Deferreded tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 18 2 18 Pension obligations 23 -2 21 Provisions 30 -2 28 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 5 5 Fair value reserve 6 3 9 Other temporary differences 49 6 1 -7 49 Total 131 1 3 1 -6 129 Deferr Deferreded tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 57 -6 14 66 Fair value reserve 2 -2 Other temporary differences 42 -2 -7 32 Total 102 -8 -2 7 99 Net deferr deferred ed tax assets/liabilities 29 9 5 1 -13 30 Anchor 25. Pension obligations MEUR 2019 2018 Net defined benefit liabilities on 31 December 155 149 Liability for other long-term employee benefits on 31 December 15 13 Wärtsilä has defined benefit plans for its employees mainly in Europe and Asia. The major plans are located in Switzerland, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden. The Swiss defined benefit plan accounts for 31% of the Group's total defined benefit obligations and 55% of the plans' assets. Most of the plans provide a lifetime pension to the members at the normal retirement age but there are also plans, which provide a lump sum payment at the retirement date. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds. Their assets are not included in the Group's assets. The plans' assets are typically invested according to the investment strategies approved by the funds' Board of Trustees, or in some cases they are completely administered by insurance companies. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practice. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 225 The Swiss Plan Wärtsilä operates a defined benefit plan in Switzerland in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plan provides benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plan is run as a pension fund by the Board of Trustees separately from the company. Contributions to the plan are paid both by the employees as well as by the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee and cover on average two thirds of the total contributions. The investment strategy for a pension fund's asset is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees. Assets are invested in accordance with the strategy and the corridors for different investment categories as defined by local laws. Other risks of the plan are longevity of plan members as well as death or disability of employees before their retirement. The pension plan is reinsured for the risk of death and disability until 31 December 2019. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Board of Trustees as benefits paid by the plan are exceeding the minimum level required by law. The German Plans Wärtsilä operates defined benefit plans in Germany in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plans provide benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plans vary from unfunded plans to a plan run as a pension fund. In some of the plans, contributions are paid to the plan both by the employees and the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. However, in some plans only the employer is obliged to make the payments. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee, the duration of the employment and also on the position of the employee. The main risks of the plans are longevity of plan members and death or disability of employees before their retirement. In a funded plan, also the investment strategy chosen includes certain risk. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are valuated on a yearly basis. MEUR 2019 2018 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 119 108 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 182 177 Fair value of plan assets -146 -135 Net liability in the statement of financial position 155 149 Present value of Fair defined value benefit of plan % obligations assets Switzerland 31 55 Germany 23 5 Other Europe 37 28 Asia 9 12 Total 100 100 Present value of Fair Net defined value defined benefit of plan benefit MEUR obligation assets liability Balance on 1 January 2018 307 -154 154 Changes in exchange rates 2 -2 -1 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 10 10 Past service cost -1 -1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 226 Gains (-) / losses (+) on curtailments and settlements -21 20 -2 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 5 -3 3 Remeasur Remeasurements ements rrecognised ecognised in other compr comprehensive ehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11 11 Experience adjustments -6 -6 Changes in financial assumptions -2 -2 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -11 -11 Benefits paid -13 5 -8 Balance on 31 December 2018 282 -134 149 Balance on 1 January 2019 282 -134 149 Changes in exchange rates 5 -4 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 13 13 Gains (-) / losses (+) on curtailments and settlements -1 -1 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 5 -2 3 Remeasur Remeasurements ements rrecognised ecognised in other compr comprehensive ehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income -11 -11 Experience adjustments 1 1 Changes in demographic assumptions -1 -1 Changes in financial assumptions 30 30 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -10 -10 Benefits paid -21 10 -12 Reclassification to assets held for sale -15 7 -8 Balance on 31 December 2019 299 -146 155 Plan assets invested in: % 2019 2018 Shares and other equity instruments 18 17 Bonds and other debt instruments 35 33 Property 17 17 Other assets 30 33 The main actuarial assumptions at the end of the financial period ar aree (expr (expressed essed as weighted averages): % 2019 2018 Discount rate 1.08 1.78 Future salary growth 2.03 2.16 Future pension growth 1.14 1.18 On 31 December 2019, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 12 years. The Group expects to contribute EUR 7 million to the plans during the next financial period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 227 Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with the published statistics and experience in each country. These assumptions translate into a weighted average life expectancy in years for a pensioner at the retirement age as follows: 2019 2018 Plan participants rretiring etiring at the end of the financial period: Male 17.4 17.0 Female 20.0 17.1 Plan participants rretiring etiring 20 years after the end of the financial period: Male 18.4 16.1 Female 20.4 18.1 The following table presents a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the relevant actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at the end of the financial period. This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability in its entirety. Sensitivity analysis Effect to defined benefit obligation, MEUR Change in assumption 2019 2018 Discount rate increase 1% -41 -33 Discount rate decrease 1% 51 41 Future salary growth increase 1% 10 9 Future salary growth decrease 1% -8 -8 Future pension growth increase 1% 30 25 Future pension growth decrease 1% -16 -15 Anchor 26. Equity Equity consists of share capital, share premium, translation differences, fair value reserve, remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities and retained earnings. Shar Sharee capital and number of sharshares es MEUR Number of shares Share Share Share capital and votes capital premium Total 1 January 2018 197 241 130 336 61 397 Share issue without payment on 12 March 2018 394 482 260 31 December 2018 591 723 390 336 61 397 31 December 2019 591 723 390 336 61 397 Wärtsilä's share does not have a nominal value. Wärtsilä has one series of shares. Each share is assigned one vote in the Annual General Meeting and has equal right to dividend. Shar Sharee Capital The subscription price of a share received by the company in connection with share issues is credited to the share capital, unless it is provided in the share issue decision that a part of the subscription price is to be recorded in the fund for invested non-restricted equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 228 Shar Sharee Pr Premium emium Share premium is restricted equity. It may be reduced in accordance with the rules applying to decreasing share capital in accordance with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act. It can also be used to increase the share capital. Translation dif differ ferences ences Translating foreign subsidiaries' financial statements by using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and in the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post acquisition gains and losses are also presented in equity. Also translation differences arising from subsidiary net investment and non-current subsidiary loan without agreed settlement dates are presented in equity. The change in translation differences is recognised in other comprehensive income. Fair value rreserve eserve Fair value reserve includes the changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, if the hedging is effective and eligible for hedge accounting. The changes in items included in fair value reserve are recognised in other comprehensive income. Cash flow MEUR hedges Difference between fair value and carrying amount on 1 January 2018 -14 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 3 Fair value rreserve eserve on 1 January 2018 -10 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -6 Fair value adjustments -17 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 3 Fair value rreserve eserve on 31 December 2018 -31 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 16 Fair value adjustments 4 Fair value rreserve eserve on 31 December 2019 -11 Par Parent ent company's distributable funds After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid for the financial period 2019, total dividend payable being EUR 284 million. The remaining part of the retained profits will be carried further in the unrestricted equity. For the profit for the financial period 2018, a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share was distributed, totalling EUR 284 million, and the rest of the retained profits were carried further in the unrestricted equity. Additional information on equity is presented in Notes to the parent company financial statements, in Note 10. Shareholders' equity. Anchor 27. Provisions 2019 Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2019 21 172 67 7 38 305 Changes in exchange rates 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 229 Additions 4 52 100 20 14 190 Used provisions -14 -51 -71 -13 -9 -159 Released provisions -1 -7 -2 -5 -14 Pr Provisions ovisions on 31 December 2019 10 174 89 13 38 323 Non-curr Non-current ent 45 Curr Current ent 278 2018 Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2018 19 173 27 6 35 261 Acquisitions 1 1 1 3 Additions 12 60 107 9 11 198 Used provisions -2 -62 -64 -6 -5 -138 Released provisions -9 -5 -4 -4 -21 Pr Provisions ovisions on 31 December 2018 21 172 67 7 38 305 Non-curr Non-current ent 54 Curr Current ent 251 Warranty provisions include estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated historical experience. The standard warranty period is one year from the delivery onwards. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases which arise out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits concern mainly issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim, but it is highly unlikely that the outcome of it would be unfavourable. The claim is treated as a contingent liability as it is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims as well as for the litigation and arbitration matters when an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Anchor 28. Financial liabilities 2019 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from other financial institutions* 56 263 258 328 906 Lease liabilities 48 65 37 64 215 Other interest-bearing debt* 2 2 Trade payables 624 624 Derivatives** 7 10 5 2 23 Other liabilities 4 4 Total 741 339 301 392 1 774 * Estimated interest expenses, total 8 12 8 3 31 Estimated contractual cash flows 748 351 309 395 1 804 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 230 2018 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from other financial institutions* 63 186 311 250 809 Finance lease liabilities* 1 2 2 Other interest-bearing debt* 11 11 Trade payables 596 596 Derivatives** 63 12 3 79 Other liabilities 9 9 Total 744 199 314 250 1 507 * Estimated interest expenses, total 8 13 11 7 39 Estimated contractual cash flows 752 212 326 257 1 546 ** Valuation for derivatives with negative market value by maturity date. Nominal contractual amounts are presented in Note 30. Derivative financial instruments. Interest expenses for long-term loans are calculated by using the average interest rate prevailing on 31 December 2019. Fair values of financial liabilities are presented in Note 18. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. Anchor 29. Other liabilities MEUR 2019 2018 Accrued expenses 320 295 Personnel costs 125 124 Derivatives 23 79 Interest and other financial items 4 9 Other accruals 41 45 VAT liabilities 39 26 Other 70 67 Total 623 645 Non-curr Non-current ent 1 1 Curr Current ent 622 645 Anchor 30. Derivative financial instruments The Group applies hedge accounting to significant foreign currency forward contracts. Detailed financial information is presented in Note 33. Financial risks. of which of which MEUR 2019 closed 2018 closed Nominal values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps 400 270 Cross currency swaps 246 238 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting 1 769 873 1 227 314 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 231 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting 597 213 1 600 721 Total 3 012 1 086 3 335 1 035 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps -7 -4 Cross currency swaps -4 -8 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting 8 -22 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting 4 -33 Total -67 In addition, the Group had copper futures and swaps amounting to 173 tons (264) valued at EUR 1 million (1). Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and fall due during the following 12 months (12). A currency forward is considered closed when there are offsetting cash flows in the same currency with the same value date. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average maturity is 69 months (48). The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 41 months (54). Normally all of the Groups' derivatives are done under International Swaps and Derivatives Association's Master Agreements (ISDA). In case of an event of default under these agreements the non-defaulting party may request early termination and set-off of all outstanding transactions. These agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position. The following table sets out the carrying amounts of recognised financial instruments that are subject to the above agreements. MEUR 2019 2018 Gr Gross oss fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets Cross currency swaps 5 3 Currency forwards 18 8 Total 24 12 Liabilities Interest rate swaps -7 -4 Cross currency swaps -9 -11 Currency forwards -7 -63 Total -23 -79 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets 8 Liabilities -8 -67 Total -67 Anchor 31. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2019 2018 Debt in the Debt in the statement statement of financial of financial MEUR position Collateral position Collateral Mortgages given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Other commitments 18 10 15 10 Total 18 10 15 10 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 232 Chattel mortgages and other pledges and securities given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Loans from credit institutions 5 1 8 2 Other commitments 21 17 Total 5 22 8 19 MEUR 2019 2018 Guarantees and contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 718 775 Total 718 775 Nominal amounts of rrents ents accor according ding to leasing contracts* Payable within one year 53 Payable between one and five years 148 Payable later 83 Total 284 Nominal amounts of lease liabilities Low-value lease liabilities 3 Short-term lease liabilities 5 Leases not yet commenced, but to which Wärtsilä is committed 143 Total 151 * Due to the implementation of IFRS 16, lease liabilities have been included in the consolidated statement of financial position starting from financial period 2019. Anchor 32. Related party disclosures Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management, the associated companies, and joint ventures. Management rremuneration emuneration Benefits recognised in the statement of income TEUR 2019 2018 President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 894 862 Share based bonuses* -1 742 Statutory pension costs 123 119 Voluntary pension costs 179 170 Deputy of President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 384 Share based bonuses* -871 Statutory pension costs 115 Voluntary pension costs 107 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 233 Other members of the Board of Management Salaries and other short-term benefits 2 371 2 263 Share based bonuses* -5 716 Statutory pension costs 305 315 Voluntary pension costs 342 368 Total 4 214 -3 627 Board of Directors on 31 December 2019 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 172 175 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 117 119 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, member 92 96 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, member 81 82 Karin Falk, member 77 78 Johan Forssell, member 81 82 Risto Murto, member 91 94 Markus Rauramo, member 97 103 Total 806 829 Management rremuneration, emuneration, total 5 020 -2 798 * Share based bonuses are measured at fair value at the reporting date. Due to the development of Wärtsilä share price during 2018, impact to the result for the financial period was positive. The holdings of Wärtsilä shares of the President and CEO, and the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Management at year-end were 289,036 shares (304,439). The President and CEO is entitled to retire on reaching 63 years of age. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The Group has no loan receivables from the executive management or the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments have been given on behalf of management or shareholders. Business transactions with the associated companies and joint ventur ventures es MEUR 2019 2018 Sales to the associates and joint ventures 31 40 Purchases from the associates and joint ventures 35 27 Receivables from the associates and joint ventures 8 10 Advances paid to the associates and joint ventures 2 Payables to the associates and joint ventures 5 7 Detailed financial information on the associated companies and joint ventures is presented in Note 17. Investments in associates and joint ventures. Anchor 33. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 234 The objective is to hedge against unfavourable changes in the financial markets and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks on the Group’s cash reserves, profits and shareholders’ equity. The Financial Risk Policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The Group Treasury employs only such instruments whose market value and risk profile it can reliably monitor. Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange exposures are monitored at the Business level, hedged at company level against the Group Treasury and then netted and covered externally at Group level by the Group Treasury. All material fixed sales and purchase contracts, including both future cash flows and related accounts receivable and payable, are hedged. The estimated future commercial exposures are evaluated by the Businesses, and the level of hedging is decided by the Board of Management. Hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 is applied to most of the hedges of these exposures. The hedges cover such time periods that both the prices and costs can be adjusted to new exchange rates. These periods vary among Group companies from one month to two years. The Group also hedges its position of the statement of financial position, which includes cash balances, loans/deposits as well as other receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. As field service work is invoiced in local currencies, there is some foreign exchange changes related volatility in the Group’s turnover. However the effect to the profitability is limited as the related costs are in the same currency. Spare part sales are based on euro price list and related purchases in non-euro currencies are hedged, so effect from foreign currency rate changes to spare part sales in minimal. As both Marine and Energy Business project/hardware sales/purchases as well as estimated currency exposures from long-term agreements are hedged, the Group does not expect significant gains/losses from foreign exchange rate changes in 2020 related to its operations excluding internal financing. Fixed sales and purchase contracts are usually hedged by using foreign exchange forwards to offset currency spot rate related changes to the value of the underlying cash flows. As the aim is to hedge and apply hedge accounting (cash flow hedging) only to the foreign exchange spot risk, all interest rate/hedge timing related gains/losses are booked directly into the financial items. As the underlying cash flows can have long maturities, the related hedges can be done with shorter maturities and they can be rolled over when needed, so that at the maturity the total currency rate related gains/losses from these hedges are expected to fully offset the related gains/losses from the underlying cash flows. Because the hedge relation is based on matching critical terms (except the timing), the hedge ratio is 1:1. A cancellation or reduction of sales/purchase value of an order can cause adjustment to the related hedge and any related gains/losses will be immediately recognised in the statement of income. As external hedges are typically done on short maturities (up to 1 year) and only high credit quality (Aminimum rating requirement) counterparties are utilised, counterparty credit risk is expected to have minimal effect on hedge valuations. Due to some underlying hedged cash flows having longer maturities than related hedges the change in present value of the hedge and underlying cash flow does not always fully offset each other during the lifetime of a hedge. This ineffectiveness is calculated on quarterly basis and will be booked on Group level in financial items. The instruments, and their nominal values, used to hedge the Group’s foreign exchange exposures are listed in Note 30. Derivative financial instruments. Since Wärtsilä has subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone, the Group’s equity, goodwill and purchase price allocations are sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of 2019, the net assets of Wärtsilä’s foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone totalled EUR 1,041million (979). In addition, goodwill and purchase price allocations from acquisitions nominated in foreign currencies amounted to EUR 926 million (932). In 2019, the translation differences recognised in OCI mainly come from changes in GBP exchange rate. In 2019, EUR 4 million (-14) fair value adjustments related to cash flow hedges were recognised in equity. EUR 19 million (-8) of the fair value adjustments were transferred from equity to the statement of income as net sales or operating expenses during 2019. In 2019, the result from ineffective portion of the cash flow hedges or gain/loss from cancelled projects was EUR -5 million (-2), which was booked in financial items and specified in Note 11. Financial income and expenses. Approximately 67% (67) of sales and 59% (65) of operating costs in 2019 were denominated in euros, and approximately 20% (21) of sales and 10% (8) of operating costs were denominated in US dollars. The remainder were split between several currencies. The Group’s profits and competitiveness are also indirectly affected by the home currencies of its main competitors: USD, GBP, JPY and KRW. As Wärtsilä's operations are global they often involve currency risks. The largest operative currency positions (excluding financing) open as of 31 December 2019 by currency pair are listed below. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 235 Statement of financial Estimated cash flows position Base Base Base Base currency currency currency currency MEUR received paid received paid Net EUR/USD 77 152 338 512 249 EUR/NOK 119 48 304 17 358 USD/NOK 50 14 72 108 EUR/CNY 32 26 70 76 EUR/GBP 24 18 8 71 56 EUR/JPY 11 7 9 25 12 As the main funding currency for Wärtsilä Group including the Group Treasury is euro and the subsidiaries are normally funded in their home currencies by the Group Treasury, the Group Treasury had the following related open currency positions as of 31 December 2019. MEUR Loans Deposits Net Intragr Intragroup oup loans/deposits USD 35 391 356 GBP 48 93 46 CHF 103 103 AUD 52 52 NOK 41 41 SGD 1 32 31 CNY 13 13 CAD 11 11 Other currencies* 2 5 7 Exter External nal loans JPY 246** 246 Total 435 639 906 * The other currencies do not net as they are of different currencies. ** External JPY loans are fully hedged with cross currency swaps. Some Group companies in countries whose currencies are not fully convertible like Argentina, Brazil and Indonesia have unhedged, intercompany loans nominated either in EUR or USD, which may result in some foreign exchange differences. The total amount of these loans is EUR 192 million (178). The open operative currency positions including financing are hedged by using derivative financial instruments according to the table below. Curr Currency ency forwar forwards ds Against fixed sales and Against purchase net MEUR contracts loans Currency forwards USD 614 356 NOK 451 41 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 236 CHF 31 103 CNY 107 13 AUD 1 52 MXN 47 2 SGD 8 31 SEK 26 CAD 13 11 Other currencies* 67 7 Total amount of curr currency ency derivatives 1 364 616 * Other currencies does not include any material single currencies. Net loans include non-euro intragroup loans and deposits given by the parent company. IFRS hedge accounting has been applied to EUR 2,448 million (2,355) currency forwards. A 5% change in the exchange rates would cause from these currency forwards an approximately EUR 74 million (60) impact on the equity. As all material fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged, the profit and loss sensitivity of foreign exchange from operations (excluding internal financing) is considered minimal. Gross Net Equity MEUR amount amount impact Both legs of currency forwards under hedge accounting* EUR 1 772 83 USD 1 332 640 32 NOK 1 202 509 25 GBP 128 34 2 MXN 132 47 2 CNY 110 104 5 JPY 50 31 2 CHF 38 28 1 Other currencies 108 74 4 Total (single leg) 2 435 776 73 * Intragroup transactions, on which the actual hedge accounting bookings are based. MEUR External currency forwards under hedge accounting by year 2020 1 769 Hedged highly probable forecasted cash flows by year 2020 1 977 2021 193 2022 71 2023 31 2024176 Interest rate risk Wärtsilä is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through market value changes to the net debt portfolio (price risk) and also through changes in interest rates (re-fixing on rollovers). Interest rate risk is managed by constantly monitoring the market value of the financial instruments and by using sensitivity analysis. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 237 Interest-bearing loan capital at the end of 2019 totalled EUR 908 million (823). The average interest rate was 0.9% (1.0) and the average re-fixing time 21 months (27). Wärtsilä spreads its interest rate risk exposure by taking both fixed and floating rate loans. The share of fixed rate loans as a proportion of the total debt can vary between 30–70%. The Board of Directors has given authorisation to temporarily increase the share of fixed loans up to 100%, and the authorisation is valid until January 2022. Wärtsilä hedges its loan portfolio by using derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, futures and options. MEUR 2019 2018 Fixed rate loans 406 292 Floating rate loans 503 531 Derivatives 424 426 Share of fixed rate loans of total loans (including derivatives), % 91 87 At the end of 2019, a one percentage point parallel decrease/increase of the yield curve would have resulted in a EUR 28 million (24) increase/ decrease in the value of the net debt portfolio, including derivatives. A one percentage point change in the interest level would cause a EUR 1 million (1) change in the following year’s interest expenses of the debt portfolio, including derivatives. Changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives are usually immediately recognised into the statement of income. However, cash flow hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 is applied to a EUR 130 million amortising interest rate swap maturing in 2031. The interest rate hedge swaps variable interest payments of a large lease agreement to fixed. As the hedge and the underlying cash flow have matching critical terms, the hedge ratio is 1:1 and the hedge is expected to be 100% effective. In 2019, EUR 2 million fair value adjustment related to cash flow hedge was recognised in equity and no amounts have been reclassified to profit and loss. Additional information related to loans can be found in Note 18. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and Note 28. Financial liabilities. Liquidity and refinancing risk Wärtsilä ensures sufficient liquidity at all times by efficient cash management and by maintaining sufficient committed and uncommitted credit lines available. Refinancing risk is managed by having a balanced and sufficiently long loan portfolio. The existing funding programmes include: • Committed Revolving Credit Facilities totalling EUR 640 million (640). • Finnish Commercial Paper programmes totalling EUR 800 million (800). The average maturity of the non-current debt is 46 months (49) and the average maturity of the confirmed credit lines is 30 months (31). Additional information in Note 28. Financial liabilities. At year-end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents totalling EUR 369 million (487), of which EUR 11 million is related to assets held for sale, as well as EUR 640 million (640) non-utilised committed credit facilities. Commercial Paper Programmes were not utilised on 31 December 2019 nor on 31 December 2018. Committed Revolving Credit Facilities as well as the parent company's long-term loans include a financial covenant (solvency ratio). Solvency ratio is expected to remain clearly over the covenant level for the foreseeable future. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 238 Revolving crcredit edit facilities MEUR Available (end of Year Maturing period) 2019 640 2020 130 510 2021 130 380 2022 90 290 2023 160 130 2024 130 Credit risk The responsibility for managing the credit risks associated with ordinary commercial activities lies with the Businesses and the Group companies. Major trade and project finance credit risks are minimised by transferring risks to banks, insurance companies and export credit organisations. The credit risks related to the placement of liquid funds and to trading in financial instruments are minimised by setting explicit limits for the counterparties and by making agreements only with the most reputable domestic and international banks and financial institutions. As only high credit quality (Aminimum rating requirement) counterparties are utilised for derivative financial instruments and the transactions are done under ISDA Master Agreements, no credit losses are expected from these instruments. The Group companies deposit the maximum amount of their liquid financial assets with the centralised treasury when local laws and central bank regulations allow it. The Group’s funds are placed in instruments with sufficient liquidity (current bank deposits or Finnish Commercial Papers) and rating (at least single-A rated instruments or other instruments approved by the Group’s CFO). These placements are constantly monitored by the Group Treasury, and Wärtsilä does not expect any future defaults from the placements. The expected credit losses associated with investments carried at amortised cost are assessed on a forward-looking basis based on investment maturity dates and counterparty credit risk on quarterly basis. As of 31 December 2019 the expected credit loss was not material. Aging of trade rreceivables eceivables For trade receivables and receivables from revenue recognised over time in accordance with the input method, simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from revenue recognised over time in accordance with the input method are usually covered with advance payments collected from customers. Thus, recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. For trade receivables not due or maximum 359 days overdue, an impairment of 0.1%–2.0% is made, depending on the aging category and the origin of the receivable. In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the Group considers historical loss rates for each category, and adjusts for forward-looking macroeconomic data. In addition to that, trade receivables more than 360 days old are assessed for impairment individually. 2019 2018 Trade of which Trade of which MEUR receivables impaired receivables impaired Not past due 788 1 862 1 Past due 1–30 days 149 129 Past due 31–180 days 227 2 163 1 Past due 181–360 days 73 1 79 1 Past due more than 1 year 81 57 100 59 Total 1 317 61 1 333 62 In 2019, the result impact of write-offs was EUR -7 million (1). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 239 Impairments MEUR 2019 2018 Impairment, beginning of period 62 62 Other movements -17 -3 Impairment during the period 17 3 Impairment, end of period 61 62 The Group sells trade receivables in an amount that is currently not significant compared to the trade receivables as a whole. Sold receivables have been de-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. Equity price risk Wärtsilä has equity investments totalling EUR 14 million (13) in power plant companies, most of which are located in developing countries and performing well according to expectations. Additional information in Note 18. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. Capital risk management Wärtsilä’s policy is to secure a strong capital base to keep the confidence of investors and creditors and for the future development of the business. The capital is defined as total equity including non-controlling interests and net interest-bearing debt. The target for Wärtsilä is to maintain gearing below 0.50 and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings over the cycle. MEUR 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 851 748 Lease liabilities, non-current 146 Interest-bearing debt, current 58 74 Lease liabilities, current 42 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing liabilities 1 096 823 Interest-bearing receivables -1 -3 Cash and cash equivalents -358 -487 Cash and cash equivalents pertaining to assets held for sale -11 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing assets -370 -490 Total net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt 726 333 Total equity 2 410 2 432 Gearing 0.30 0.14 In the capital management Wärtsilä also follows the solvency development: Equity and liabilities 6 398 6 059 Advances received -452 -584 5 946 5 475 Solvency ratio, % 40.8 44.4 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 240 Anchor 34. Auditors' fees and services The following remuneration was paid to auditors and accounting firms for audit based on applicable legislation and for other services. In 2019, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has provided non-audit services to entities of Wärtsilä Group totalling 481 thousand euros. These services included tax services (215 thousand euros) and other services (266 thousand euros). 2019 2018 MEUR PwC Others PwC Others Audit 4.3 0.5 3.7 0.4 Tax advisory 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4 Other services 0.3 0.1 0.1 Total 4.8 0.8 4.0 0.9 Anchor 35. Exchange rates In the consolidated financial statements there are approximately 60 currencies consolidated. The most significant currencies are presented here. Closing rates Average rates 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 2019 2018 AED United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.12602 4.20536 4.11203 4.33922 BRL Brazil Real 4.51570 4.44400 4.41354 4.30873 CHF Switzerland Franc 1.08540 1.12690 1.11683 1.15488 CNY China Yuan Renminbi 7.82050 7.87510 7.73388 7.80736 DKK Danish Krone 7.47150 7.46730 7.46607 7.45318 GBP United Kingdom Pound 0.85080 0.89453 0.87731 0.88475 INR India Rupee 80.18700 79.72980 78.85014 80.72774 JPY Japan Yen 121.94000 125.85000 122.05637 130.40956 NOK Norway Krone 9.86380 9.94830 9.84967 9.60063 RUB Russian Rouble 69.95630 79.71530 72.45934 74.05507 SAR Saudi Arabian Riyal 4.21365 4.29501 4.19884 4.43113 SEK Sweden Krona 10.44680 10.25480 10.58666 10.25674 SGD Singapore Dollar 1.51110 1.55910 1.52721 1.59286 USD United States Dollar 1.12340 1.14500 1.11960 1.18149 Anchor 36. Subsidiaries Geographical Share area Company name Location Activities % Europe Wärtsilä Cyprus Limited Cyprus Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Danmark A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lyngsø Marine A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 241 Wärtsilä BLRT Estonia Oü Estonia Sales and services 51.7 Eniram Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Finland Oy Finland Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Projects Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Solutions Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Technology Oy Ab Finland Holding 100.0 Wärtsilä France S.A.S. France Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Mediterranean SAS France Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Deutschland GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Funa International GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä JOVYATLAS EUROATLAS GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä SAM Electronics GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Germany GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä UK Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valves Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage UK Limited Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Ships Electronic Services Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Greenham Regis Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Greece S.A. Greece Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hungary Kft Hungary Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Investments Unlimited Company Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Transas New Building Limited Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Limited Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä APSS Srl Italy Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Italy Production, sales and services 100.0 Trident Italia Srl Italy Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Moss AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Norway AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Gas Solutions Norway AS. Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Norway AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valmarine AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Baltic Design Centre Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Poland Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Poland sp. z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Portugal S.A. Portugal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Vostok, LLC Russia Sales and services 100.0 Transas Navigator Ltd. Russia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Digital Technologies, JSC Russia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ibérica S.A. Spain Production, sales and services 100.0 Burriel Navarro S.L. Spain Sales and services 100.0 Trident Las Palmas S.L. Spain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions AB Sweden Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Sweden AB Sweden Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Sweden AB Sweden Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services Switzerland AG Switzerland Sales and services 100.0 Quantiparts B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 242 Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V. The Netherlands Production, sales and services 100.0 Trident B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Netherlands BV The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 The Americas Wärtsilä Argentina S.A. Argentina Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. Brazil Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Canada Inc. Canada Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Chile Ltda. Chile Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Colombia S.A. Colombia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dominicana Inc. Dominican Republic Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ecuador S.A. Ecuador Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Guatemala S.A. Guatemala Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. Guyana Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Panama Services S.A. Panama Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Peru S.A.C. Peru Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Caribbean, Inc. Puerto Rico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uruguay S.A. Uruguay Sales and services 100.0 American Hydro Corporation USA Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine LLC USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Defence Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dynamic Positioning Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä North America, Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wartsila Voyage Americas Inc USA Sales and services 100.0 Asia PT. Wärtsilä Indonesia Indonesia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Azerbaijan LLC Azerbaijan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Bangladesh Ltd. Bangladesh Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä SAM Electronics (Taizhou) Co., Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Propulsion (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China Sales and services 95.0 Wärtsilä Suzhou Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä-CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 55.0 Wärtsilä Voyage (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Hong Kong Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä China Ltd. Hong Kong Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsila India Private Ltd. India Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Japan Ltd. Japan Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Myanmar Myanmar Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd. Pakistan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Philippines Inc. Philippines Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Doha L.L.C. Qatar Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Power Contracting Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia Sales and services 60.0 Guidance Marine Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. South Korea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lanka (PVT) Ltd Sri Lanka Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä-Enpa A.S. Turkey Sales and services 51.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 243 Wärtsilä Gulf FZE United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Middle East (FZE) United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä LLC United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ships Repairing & Maintenance LLC United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Middle East DMCEST United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä (Vietnam) Company Limited Vietnam Sales and services 100.0 Other Wärtsilä Australia Pty Ltd. Australia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Ltd. Cameroon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E Egypt Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Gabon Gabon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa Guinea Guinea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Eastern Africa Limited Kenya Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Mauritanie SAU Mauritania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Mocambique LDA Mozambique Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Muscat LLC Oman Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Marine & Power Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa S.A. Senegal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd Tanzania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uganda Ltd. Uganda Sales and services 100.0 Non-controlling interests are not significant in the Group's activities and cash flows in individual subsidiaries. The list excludes subsidiaries, which do not have a significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group. A complete list of shares and securities in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Ordinance is included in the official financial statements of the parent company prepared with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 244 Anchor Par Parent ent company financial statements Anchor Parent company income statement (FAS) MEUR 2019 2018 Note Other operating income 89 80 1 Personnel expenses -37 -26 2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments -4 -4 3 Other operating expenses -108 -104 Operating rresult esult -60 -55 Financial income and expenses 4 Income from financial assets 304 300 Interest income and other financial income 90 74 Exchange gains and losses 1 -1 Interest expenses and other financial expenses -91 -77 304 296 Result befor beforee appr appropriations opriations and taxes 243 241 Change in depreciation difference 1 Group contribution 76 Result befor beforee taxes 243 318 Income taxes -3 -10 5 Result for the financial period 240 308 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 245 Anchor Parent company balance sheet (FAS) MEUR 2019 2018 Note ASSETS Fixed assets 6 Intangible assets Other long-term expenditure 10 3 Intangable assets and construction in progress 1 8 11 12 Tangible assets Land and water 7 7 Machinery, equipment and other tangible assets 6 1 Construction in progress 6 13 14 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 950 950 Other shares and securities 1 1 951 951 Total fixed assets 974 976 Non-curr Non-currentent rreceivables eceivables Receivables from Group companies 100 100 7 Loan receivables 1 1 101 101 Curr Current ent rreceivables eceivables Receivables from Group companies 2 193 2 308 8 Other receivables 1 2 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 29 16 9 2 224 2 327 Cash and bank balances 113 291 Total curr current ent assets 2 438 2 719 Assets 3 413 3 696 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 246 MEUR 2019 2018 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 10 Share capital 336 336 Share premium reserve 61 61 Retained earnings 754 730 Result for the financial period 240 308 Total equity 1 391 1 435 Accumulated appr appropriations opriations Depreciation difference 1 1 Provisions 18 15 Liabilities 11 Non-curr Non-currentent Loans from credit institutions 847 741 847 741 Curr Current ent Loans from credit institutions 51 56 Trade payables 14 18 Liabilities to Group companies 1 052 1 327 13 Other current liabilities 2 2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 36 102 12 1 155 1 504 Total liabilities 2 003 2 245 Equity and liabilities 3 413 3 696 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 247 Anchor Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) MEUR 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities: Result before appropriations and taxes 243 241 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 4 4 Financial income and expenses -304 -296 Cash flow before changes in working capital -56 -51 Changes in working capital: Assets, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) 11 -28 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) -45 23 -34 -5 Cash flow fr from om operating activities befor beforee financial items and taxes -90 -56 Interest and other financial expenses -89 -78 Dividends received from operating activities 304 300 Interest and other financial income from operating activities 89 74 Income taxes paid -8 -5 295 291 Cash flow fr from om operating activities 205 235 Cash flow fr from om investing activities: Investments in tangible and intangible assets -2 -13 Cash flow fr from om investing activities -2 -13 Cash flow after investing activities 203 223 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 248 Cash flow fr from om financing activities: Loans receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) 18 -492 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -284 344 Proceeds from non-current borrowing 150 280 Repayments and other changes of non-current loans -56 -84 Group contributions 76 99 Dividends paid -284 -272 Cash flow fr from om financing activities -381 -126 Change in cash and bank balances, incrincrease ease (-) decrease ease (+) / decr -178 96 Cash and bank at beginning of period 291 195 Cash and bank at end of period 113 291 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 249 Anchor Accounting principles for the par parent ent company The financial statements of the parent company, Wärtsilä Corporation, have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). The preparation of the financial statements requires management, in compliance with the regulations in force and good accounting practice, to make estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement and timing of the reported information. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Transactions denominated in for foreign eign curr currencies encies and derivatives Business transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables and payables on the balance sheet date are valued at the exchange rates prevailing on that date. Exchange gains and losses related to business operations are treated as adjustments to other operating income and operating expenses. Exchange gains and losses related to financing operations are entered under financial income and expenses. Derivatives are measured at fair value. Open currency derivatives, including interest components, are valued at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Derivative changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. Resear Research ch and development costs Research and development costs are expensed in the financial period in which they occur. Receivables Receivables are valued to acquisition cost or to a lower probable value. Fixed assets and depr depreciation eciation and amortisation Fixed assets are valued in the balance sheet at their direct acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisastion. Certain land areas also include revaluations. Depreciation and amortisation is based on the following useful lives: Other long-term expenditure 3-10 years Buildings 20-40 years Machinery and equipment 5-20 years Leasing Lease payments are treated as rentals. Pr Provisions ovisions Provisions in the balance sheet comprise those items which the company is committed to covering either through agreements or otherwise, but which are not yet realised. Changes to provisions are included in the income statement. Income taxes Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, as well as adjustments to taxes in prior years. Taxes allocated to extraordinary items are shown in the notes to the financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 250 Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are not recorded in the financial statements until they have been approved by the Annual General Meeting. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 251 Anchor Notes to the par parent ent company financial statements Anchor 1. Other operating income MEUR 2019 2018 Rental income 3 1 Services to Group companies 85 78 Other 1 1 Total 89 80 Anchor 2. Personnel expenses MEUR 2019 2018 Wages and salaries -30 -19 Pension costs -5 -5 Other compulsory personnel costs -1 -1 Total -37 26 Salaries and remunerations paid to senior management The President and CEO and his deputy and members of the Board of Directors. In 2019 there was not nominated deputy to the President and CEO. -2 -5 The President and CEO has the right to retire at the age of 63 years. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The company's Board of Directors decides the remunerations of the President and CEO and his immediate subordinates. Additional information about Management remuneration can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 32. Personnel on average during the year 392 371 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 252 Anchor 3. Depreciation and amortisation MEUR 2019 2018 Depr Depreciation eciation and amortisation accor according ding to plan Other long-term expenditure -3 -3 Machinery and equipment -1 Total depreciation according to plan -4 -3 Impairment losses on non-current assets -1 Tax depreciations -4 -4 Depreciation difference 1 Depr Depreciation eciation dif differ ference ence Depreciation difference on 1 January 1 2 Change in the depreciation difference -1 Depreciation Depr eciation dif ference differ ence on 31 December 1 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 253 Anchor 4. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2019 2018 Dividend income From Group companies 304 300 Total 304 300 Other interest income From Group companies 34 28 From other companies 1 1 Total 35 29 Other financial income From Group companies 32 24 From other companies 22 20 Total 55 45 Exchange gains and losses 1 -1 Interest expenses To Group companies -6 -6 To other companies -8 -9 Total -14 -14 Other financial expenses To Group companies -32 -21 To other companies -45 -42 Total -77 -62 Financial income and expenses, total 304 296 Anchor 5. Income taxes MEUR 2019 2018 Income taxes For the financial period -3 -4 For prior financial periods -6 Total -3 -10 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 254 Anchor 6. Fixed assets Intangible assets Intangable Other assets and long-term construction Total Total MEUR expenditures in progress 2019 2018 Acquisition cost at January 1 117 8 125 123 Additions 1 2 7 Disposals -3 -3 Reclassifications 8 -8 -5 Acquisition cost at December 31 123 1 124 125 Accumulated amortisation at January 1 -113 -113 -115 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 3 3 5 Amortisation during the financial period -3 -3 3 Accumulated amortisation at December 31 -113 -113 -113 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 10 1 11 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 3 8 12 Tangible assets Machinery, Land Buildings equipment and and and other tangible Construction Total Total MEUR water structures assets in progress 2019 2018 Acquisition cost at January 1 7 2 2 6 17 13 Additions 6 Reclassifications 6 -6 -3 Acquisition cost at December 31 7 2 8 17 17 Accumulated depreciation at January 1 -2 -1 -3 -5 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 3 Impairment losses on non-current assets -1 Amortisation during the financial period -1 -1 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation at December 31 -2 -3 -4 -3 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 7 6 13 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 255 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 7 1 6 14 Shar Shareses and securities Shares in Shares in Group other Total Total MEUR companies companies 2019 2018 Acquisition cost at January 1 950 1 951 951 Acquisition cost at December 31 950 1 951 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 950 1 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 950 1 951 Anchor 7. Non-current receivables MEUR 2019 2018 Receivables frfrom om Gr Group oup companies Loan receivables 100 100 Total 100 100 Anchor 8. Current receivables from Group companies MEUR 2019 2018 Trade receivables 24 16 Loan receivables 2 135 2 153 Derivatives 27 54 Other receivables 76 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 7 10 Total 2 193 2 308 Anchor 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued income MEUR 2019 2018 Derivatives 24 12 Insurance receivables 1 Other 5 4 Total 29 16 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 256 Anchor 10. Shareholders' equity MEUR 2019 2018 Shar Sharee capital Share capital on January 1 336 336 Share capital on December 31 336 336 Shar Sharee pr premium emium rreserve eserve Share premium reserve on January 1 61 61 Share premium reserve on December 31 61 61 Retained ear earnings nings Retained earnings on January 1 1 038 1 002 Dividends paid -284 -272 Result for the financial period 240 308 Retained earnings on December 31 994 1 038 Total shareholders' equity 1 391 1 435 Distributable equity 994 1 038 Free share issue approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591 723 390. Anchor 11. Liabilities MEUR 2019 2018 Non-curr Non-current ent Interest-bearing 847 741 Total 847 741 Curr Current ent Non-interest-bearing 96 155 Interest-bearing 1 060 1 349 Total 1 155 1 504 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 257 Debt with maturity prprofile ofile 2019 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 51 519 328 899 Total 2018 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 56 491 250 797 Total 56 491 250 797 Anchor 12. Accrued expenses and deferred income MEUR 2019 2018 Income and other taxes 5 Derivatives 23 79 Personnel costs 6 11 Interest and other financial items 3 3 Other 4 5 Total 36 102 Anchor 13. Liabilities to Group companies MEUR 2019 2018 Trade payables 15 9 Other current liabilities 1 008 1 293 Derivatives 25 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 4 2 Total 1 052 1 327 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 258 Anchor 14. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2019 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 100 100 100 Other receivables 1 1 1 Curr Current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 2 135 2 135 2 135 Trade receivables from Group companies 24 24 24 Derivatives 24 24 24 Derivatives from Group companies 27 27 27 Other receivables from Group companies 6 6 6 Cash and bank 113 113 113 Carrying amount by category Non-curr Non-current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 847 847 856 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 52 52 52 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 1 008 1 008 1 008 Trade payables 14 14 14 Trade payables to Group companies 15 15 15 Derivatives 23 23 23 Derivatives to Group companies 25 25 25 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Carrying amount by category Information about the fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 18. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 259 2018 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 100 100 100 Other receivables 1 1 1 Curr Current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 2 153 2 153 2 153 Trade receivables from Group companies 16 16 16 Derivatives 12 12 12 Derivatives from Group companies 54 54 54 Other receivables from Group companies 8 8 8 Cash equivalents 5 5 5 Cash and bank 286 286 286 Carrying amount by category 2 569 65 2 635 2 635 Non-curr Non-current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 741 741 747 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 56 56 56 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 1 293 1 293 1 293 Trade payables 18 18 18 Trade payables to Group companies 9 9 9 Derivatives 79 79 79 Derivatives to Group companies 24 24 24 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Carrying amount by category 2 120 103 2 223 2 229 Information about the fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 18. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 260 Anchor 15. Derivative financial instruments With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2019 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 2 358 2 448 4 806 Interest rate swaps 400 130 530 Cross currency swaps 246 246 5 582 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Currency forwards, transaction risk 11 11 Interest rate swaps -7 2 -6 Cross currency swaps -4 -4 Total 2 With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2018 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 2 821 2 799 5 620 Interest rate swaps 270 270 Cross currency swaps 238 238 6 128 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Currency forwards, transaction risk -55 30 -25 Interest rate swaps -4 -4 Cross currency swaps -8 -8 Total -37 Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and are matched against the hedged cashflows. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and the average interest-bearing period for external contracts is 69 (48) months and 137 months for intragroup contracts. The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 41 (29) months. Anchor 16. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. The Group Treasury is organisationally within the Parent Company. The details about the management of the Group's financial risks are in Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial statements. As the Group's liquidity and interest rate risks are managed at the parent company level the group reporting applies fully to the Parent Company. For Foreign eign exchange risk Operative foreign currency risks are followed and hedged at the subsidiary level. The Group Treasury acts as a counterparty to these hedges, if that is allowed by local regulations. To enable netting of intragroup currency flows and to reduce the amount of external transactions the Group Treasury This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 261 is allowed to have minor unhedged exposures in different currencies. Any gains/losses from the Group Treasury's operations are booked directly into the financial items and we do not expect any material foreign exchange gains/losses from the Group Treasury's operations. Anchor 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments MEUR 2019 2018 Guarantees and contingent liabilities On behalf of Group companies 2 773 3 215 Total 2 773 3 215 Futur Futuree nominal lease payments Payable within one year 4 4 Payable after one year 29 32 Total 33 36 Anchor 18. Related party loans and other commitments There are no loans receivables from senior management and the members of the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments were given on behalf of senior management or shareholders. In Note 32 in Consolidated Financial Statements, related party disclosures are specified. Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. In Notes 8 and 13 in Parent Company financial statement, receivables and liabilities from Group companies are specified. Anchor 19. Auditors' fees and services The following fees were paid to auditors and accounting firms for audits and other services. In 2019, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. Auditors' fees TEUR 2019 2018 Audit 583 524 Tax advisory 10 Other services 111 6 Total 705 528 Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 262 Anchor Pr Proposal oposal of the Boar Board d The parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 993,534,893.15, which includes EUR 239,590,080.77 in net profit for the year. There are 591,723,390 shares with dividend rights. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that the company’s distributable earnings be disposed of in the following way: EUR A dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid, making a total of 284 027 227.20 That the following sum be retained in shareholders’ equity 709 507 665.95 Totalling 993 534 893.15 The dividend shall be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.24 per share shall be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date of 9 March 2020. The payment day proposed by the Board for this instalment is 16 March 2020. The second instalment of EUR 0.24 per share shall be paid in September 2020. The second instalment of the dividend shall be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record day, which, together with the payment day, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 8 September 2020. The dividend record day for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 10 September 2020 and the dividend payment day 17 September 2020. No significant changes have taken place in the company’s financial position since the end of the financial year. The company’s liquidity is good and in the opinion of the Board of Directors the proposed dividend will not put the company’s solvency at risk. Helsinki, Finland, 29 January 2020 Mikael Lilius Tom Johnstone Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Karin Falk Johan Forssell Risto Murto Markus Rauramo Jaakko Eskola, President and CEO This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 263 Anchor Auditor’ Auditor’ss Report (T (Translation ranslation of the Finnish Original) To the Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Wärtsilä Corporation (business identity code 0128631-1) for the year ended 31 December 2019. The financial statements comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and to the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided are disclosed in note 32 to the Financial Statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 264 Our Audit Appr Approach oach Overview • We have applied an overall group materiality of € 24 million. • The group audit scope included Wärtsilä Corporation parent company and all significant operating companies, as well as a large number of smaller companies, covering the vast majority of revenues, assets and liabilities. • Revenue recognition of long-term contracts • Valuation of goodwill • Valuation of trade receivables As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. Overall group materiality € 24 million How we determined it 5 % of profit before tax (five-year average) Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by using this criteria, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose 5 % which is within the range of acceptable quantitative materiality thresholds in auditing standards. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 265 How we tailor tailored ed our gr group oup audit scope The group audit scope was tailored to take into account the structure of the Group and the size, complexity and risk of individual subsidiaries. Using this criteria we selected companies and accounts into our audit scope and at the same time ensured that we get sufficient coverage to our audit, in order to issue an audit opinion for the Group. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Key audit matter in the audit of the gr group oup How our audit addr addressed essed the key audit matter Revenue recognition of long-term contracts Refer to accounting policies for the Our revenue testing included both testing of the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 company’s controls, as well as substantive audit and 5. procedures targeted at selected major long-term projects. The group has significant revenue from Our substantive testing focused on estimates applied by construction contracts and long-term management in the accounting. operating and maintenance agreements. Our procedures included, among others things, the These long-term contracts are often complex following: customised solutions and meet the definition • Ensured that the revenue recognition method applied for revenue recognition over time in was appropriate based on the terms of the accordance with IFRS 15. arrangement; Revenue related to these construction • Agreed the total project revenue estimates to sales contracts and long-term operating and agreements, including amendments as appropriate; maintenance agreements is recognised using • We obtained an understanding of the processes and the percentage of completion method, where tested relevant controls, which impact the revenue progress is determined by comparing actual recognition; costs incurred to date, with the total estimated costs of the project. Revenue recognition for • We assessed the reliability of management’s estimates long-term contracts includes management by comparing the actual results of delivered projects to judgment in a form of estimates, which are previous estimates; subject to management experience and • We challenged the management estimates and expectations of future events. The most assumptions in projects, which were considered to important judgment relates to the estimated include specific risk factors; and total costs of the project. • Recalculated the revenue based on the stage of Revenue recognition of long-term contracts is completion of the projects. Ensured that the stage of a key audit matter in the audit due to the high completion is correct by comparing actual costs per the level of management judgement involved in the company’s accounting records to the estimated total project estimates. costs of the projects. Valuation of goodwill Refer to accounting policies for the Our audit focused on assessing the reasonableness of the consolidated financial statements and note 14. determination of cash generating units, which forms the basis for the goodwill impairment testing and assessing This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 266 Goodwill is one of the most significant balance the appropriateness of management’s judgments and sheet items and amounts to € 1 380 million. estimates used in the goodwill impairment analysis. Our The determination and whether an impairment procedures relating to the impairment analysis included the charge is required involves significant following: management judgement, including identifying • We tested the methodology applied in the goodwill on which cash generating unit level the impairment analysis as compared to the requirements goodwill is tested and estimating the future of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets; performance of the business and the discount • We evaluated the process by which the future cash flow rate applied to these future cash flows. forecasts were drawn up, including comparing them to Valuation of goodwill is a key audit matter in the latest Board approved targets and long term plans; the audit due to the size of the goodwill • We tested the key underlying assumptions for the cash balance and the high level of management flow forecasts, including sales and profitability forecasts, judgement involved. discount rate used and the implied growth rates beyond the forecasted period; • We compared the current year actual results included in the prior year impairment model to consider whether forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic; and • We considered whether the sensitivity analysis performed by the management around key assumptions of the cash flow forecast was appropriate by considering the likelihood of the movements of these key assumptions. Valuation of trade receivables Refer to accounting policies for the For trade receivables and the management’s estimations consolidated financial statements and notes for trade receivables impairment provision, our key audit 18, 20 and 33. procedures included the following: Net trade receivables amount to € 1 256 • We obtained trade receivables balance confirmations; million, including an impairment provision of € • We analysed the aging of trade receivables; and 61 million. The trade receivables include € 19 • We obtained a list of long outstanding receivables and million long-term trade receivables. assessed the recoverability of these through inquiry with Trade receivables are recognised at their management and by obtaining sufficient corroborative anticipated realisable value, which is the evidence to support the conclusions. original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance. Valuation of trade receivables is a key audit matter in the audit due to the size of the trade receivable balance and the high level of management judgement used in determining the impairment provision. We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/ 2014 with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. Responsibilities of the Boar Board ectors and the Managing Dir Directors d of Dir Director ector for the Financial Statements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 267 regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’ Auditor’ss Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2019 Financial review 268 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Other Reporting Requir Requirements ements Appointment We were first appointed as auditors by the annual general meeting on 2 March 2017. Our appointment represents a total period of uninterrupted engagement of three years. Other Information The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. In our opinion • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Other Statements We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distributable funds is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki 7 February 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Merja Lindh Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2019.
