Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2019 Table of Contents 2019 at a glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Continuing strong interest in hunting on Sveaskog’s land . 33 Goals and outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 CEO’s comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Financial performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 New contractor strategy secures future operations . . . . . 39 About Sveaskog Innovation and development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Trends and business environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Stakeholders and materiality assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Risk analysis and corporate governance The forest – a fantastic resource . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . foldout Risk and sensitivity analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 From seedling to climate-smart houses . . . . . . . . . . . foldout Appropriation of proﬁts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Many different professional roles at Sveaskog . . . . . . . . . . 18 Corporate Governance Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Strategic direction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Message from the Chairman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Board of Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Sustainability Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Forest and climate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Financial information 2030 Agenda. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Sustainability Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 All values of the forest in a sustainable value chain. . . . . . 24 Financial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 We have high ambitions for nature conservation . . . . . . . . 26 Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 Auditor's report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104 Business activities Auditor's limited assurance report Looking back on 2019 – our customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 on Sveaskog's Sustainability Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114 Svenska Skogsplantor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Glossary and deﬁnitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118 The Annual Report comprises pages 12–13, 18–21, 30–102. The Sustainability Report comprises pages 14–17, 22–27, 34–35, 107–113. Sweden's largest forest owner Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state and is Sweden's largest forest owner with 14% of Sweden's forest land. We have operations in around 170 municipalities and in 2019 we employed an average of 807 employees. We want to set an example and lead the way to a sustainable society. Sveaskog manages the forest in a way that reinforces climate beneﬁt, biodiversity and social and economic values. At the same time, forestry must be proﬁtable and competitive. We achieve this through active, proﬁtable and responsible management of forests and land in order to continuously create and increase growth, abundant nature and increased value for future generations. Business at The forest and the assets it contains are our core business. The focus a glance is on silviculture, sales of products from the forest and development of the forest's other values, such as concessions for hunting, ﬁshing and 100 % owned by the state nature experiences. Sveaskog's business activities also include of land transactions. Our principal products are sawlogs, pulpwood and wood chips and biofuel. The majority of Sveaskog’s customers are in Sweden and in the forest industry. The Swedish forest industry is export-oriented and delivers to customers all over the world. To meet customer demand for different qualities and volumes, Sveaskog supplies raw material from its own forests and from other forest owners in Sweden and abroad. Our business activities are organised in two geographical market areas Sweden's largest as well as Svenska Skogsplantor and other businesses. These are forest owner managed and supported by central staff functions. The market areas are divided based on our forest assets, customer structure and trade ﬂows. • North comprises Norrbotten, Västerbotten and the northern parts of Jämtland and Västernorrland. The ofﬁce for the market area is located in Piteå. 807 employees • South comprises the southern parts of Jämtland and Västernorrland, 37 ecoparks Gävleborg, Dalarna, Värmland, Västmanland, Uppsala, Stockholm, Södermanland. Östergötland, Västra Götaland, Jönköping, Kronoberg, Kalmar, Blekinge, Skåne and Halland. The ofﬁce for the market area is located in Örebro. • Svenska Skogsplantor produces and sells forest plants. Svenska Skogsplantor has ﬁve nurseries spread throughout Sweden and also offers protection against pine weevil and game, regrowth packages, ground preparation and planting. Owns 14% of forest • Other business activities include leases, Hjälmare Canal and land in Sweden Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske salmon ﬁshery. 7,209 • Our central staff functions: Forestry, CFO, Communications and Public Affairs, HR, Legal Affairs and Property, and Business Development and Innovation. SEK million net sales Read more about our activities during the year on pages 30-41. 2019 AT A G LANCE 2019 at a glance Premiere for this year’s salmon Sveaskog becomes a shareholder fishing in Mörrum. Hunting and in SunCarbon AB, which has fishing are an important part of developed a technology for operations on our land and we producing lignin oil from pulp mill own Mörrums Kronolaxfiske salmblack liquor. The lignin oil can then on fishery, which is Sweden's be refined for renewable diesel leading sport fishing spot. and petrol. Svenska Skogsplantor ceases all Sveaskog enters into cooperation chemical control of pine weevils. with the Scouts in order to map This is a symbolically significant hiking trails in ecoparks using new step, which was taken against the technology. Sveaskog’s 37 ecobackground of the development of parks are located all over Sweden Conniflex for completely chemiand are great places for recreation. cal-free treatment. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Januariavtalet (January agreeThanks to the good results Sveaskog wins the silment) government deal is preachieved by Sveaskog in 2018, ver award for its app sented. Several of the points the Annual General Meeting Arboreal in SkogsElmia within the so-called 73-point resolves that Sveaskog distribute Innovation Award programme relate to forests. MSEK 1,100 to its owner, the 2019. Arboreal measSwedish government. ures the height of trees in a simpler and more Storm Alfrida felled more than half efficient way. a million cubic metres of forest; The spruce bark beetle causes hardest hit were forest owners in damage costing large amounts. Uppland. Following intensive work Sveaskog launches new technoloto save the timber, shipments of gy that facilitates mapping of the storm timber from the port of Harg spread of the spruce bark beetle A winner is selected in Sveaskog's began to customers in Sweden, by satellite. “Precision Hunt” competition for forestry Germany and Finland. machine teams, which focuses on the measurement precision of forestry Sveaskog issues its third green machines, that is, tree harvesters. Around bond. 230 forestry machine teams from around Sweden participated in the competition and the winner was Granvikslaget in Sveaskog's profit area Södra Bergslagen. The objective of the competition was to increase focus on the quality of our felling and especially on the measurement accuracy of the machines used in felling in our Minister for Enterprise, Ibrahim Baylan, visits forests. The sale of several properties in Jokkmokk Sveaskog in Umeå: Forests create jobs and municipality is completed. The deal is part are part of the solution to achieve freedom of the land sales programme aimed at from fossil fuels. Sustainable and active forstrengthening private agriculture and forestry gives us unique opportunities to make estry and covers approximately 6,000 ha, the transition to a fossil-free society with one of the larger forest land transactions more bio-based fuels and products. during the year. 4 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 2019 AT A G LANCE Sveaskog carries out burning for conservation purposes in Kärringberget. The aim is to create, in a controlled manner, environments that are important to certain species, thus increasing biodiversity. The Swedish Forest Agency presents a new inventory of damage caused by spruce bark beetle. Nearly 7 million cubic metres of forest have been destroyed by the spruce bark beetle, corresponding to a timber value of almost SEK 3 billion. This is double the volume seen in the record year 2018, when 3-4 million cubic metres were destroyed. Sveaskog is commissioned to handle Gysinge Skog's forest management, felling and timber. Timber sales are estimated to amount to at least MSEK 200 spread over five years. Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Hannele Arvonen Sveaskog buys a forest property (former CEO of Setra) with an area of 650 ha between takes up the post of Katrineholm and Eskilstuna in CEO of Sveaskog. Södermanland to secure the supply of raw materials for our customers. The Swedish Forest Agency's annual inventory of grazing Since November 2019, Sveaskog damage in young offers its contractors training in forests in northern equal opportunities through Sweden shows a Skötselskolan – a forest industry continued high level collaboration tool that ensures our of damage, although contractors have the correct skills. an improvement was seen in several elk management areas. Sveaskog and Volvo Trucks to cooperate on more sustainable transportation of sawlogs. Sveaskog and Volvo Trucks are conducting tests aimed at enabling transportation of up to 90 tonnes of sawlogs from forest to cargo terminal. Increasing the load per vehicle improves efficiency, cuts costs and reduces carbon dioxide emissions by up to 20 per cent. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 5 PE R FOR MANCE M EASU R ES Goals and outcomes 2019 Sveaskog measures and monitors its internal sustainable business goals on a regular basis, using a number of indicators. The outcomes of the indicators are key components of the annual review of the business plan and strategies. Below is a summary of the targets, indicators, outcomes over the last ﬁve years and targets for the end of the business planning period. For the CO2 emissions indicator, the ﬁnal year is 2020. The most proﬁtable forestry company in the short and long term (See page 20 for more information) Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Indicators Measurement 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 Dividend yield of at least Dividend yield 4.5% per year 4.7 4.2 4.8 5.4 4.9 >4.5 Conﬁdence in Sveaskog Conﬁdence index1 78 78 78 74 74 80 Customers’ foremost and most knowledgeable partner (To read more, see page 21) Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Indicators Measurement 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 Satisﬁed customers2 Customer satisfaction index sawmill customers 72 73 80 Customer satisfaction index pulpwood customers 64 63 70 Customer satisfaction index biofuel customers 69 67 70 First choice for employees and satisﬁed contractors and suppliers Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Indicators Measurement 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 Good leadership and Motivated employee index 70 68 64 75 employeeship and satisﬁed Leader index 73 70 71 75 contractors2 Contractor satisfaction index felling 72 73 Contractor satisfaction index forest 76 66 76 management 66 Contractor satisfaction index facility 79 Contractor satisfaction index logistics 82 Supplier satisfaction index2 Supplier satisfaction index 71 70 70 Minimum 30% women by 2021 Proportion of women, % 21 22 24 24 26 30 Proportion of employees with non-Swedish background, % 3.3 2.9 3.1 3.9 5 A leader in innovation and eﬃciency (To read more, see page 21) Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Indicators Measurement 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 Increased efﬁciency, change 3,% Total productivity +1.3 –2.5 +6.7 +2.2 –1.0 >2.0 Leader in sustainable forestry (To read more, see page 21) Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Indicators Measurement 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Carbon dioxide emissions CO2emissions in tonnes/delivered thousand should be reduced by at least m3sub 30% between 2010 and 2020 4 13.6 11.8 10.3 10.5 11.5 10.0 Environmental considerations Environmental consideration index are taken into account in forestry without major impact 94 95 95 98 98 99 1) The conﬁdence index is an aggregate of employees' conﬁdence in Sveaskog's sustainable forestry and customer, contractor and supplier satisfaction. The employee engagement survey together with the customer, contractor and supplier satisfaction surveys are carried out by external companies on behalf of Sveaskog. 2) Measurement takes place every two years. 3) For measurement, operating proﬁt from continuing operations has been adjusted for non-recurring items. 4) In 2010, CO2 emissions amounted to 14.9 tonnes/delivered thousand m3sub. 6 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 PE R FOR MANCE M EASU R ES Performance measures Operating proﬁt from Performance measures – owner’s requirements continuing operations 5 years Dividend yield, % (owner target at least 4.5%) . . . . . . . . 4.9 (5.4) MSEK Net debt/equity ratio, multiple (owner target 0.3–0.6) . . 0.30 (0.30) 1,483 1,483 1,500 Dividend, MSEK (owner target 65–90%) . . . . . . . . . . . 1,100 (1,100) 1,200 Other performance measures 900 Return on operating capital, % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.8 (12.0) 600 Return on equity, % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.7 (14.4) Interest coverage ratio, multiple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.6 (11.0) 300 Equity ratio, % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57 (57) 0 Net interest-bearing liabilities, MSEK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,149 (7,014) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average number of employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807 (840) Total delivery volume, thousand m³sub . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,648 (10,995) Forestry in ﬁgures Sveaskog's forest assets Breakdown of tree species on Sveaskog’s land 2017 2018 2019 Market area North Market area South Total land area, million ha 4.01 3.95 3.90 Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.11 3.07 3.05 Carrying amount according to IAS 41, MSEK 34,514 36,122 36,623 Taxable value, MSEK 58,461 58,309 58,294 All deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,817 10,995 10,648 Deliveries from own forest, thousand m3sub 6,463 6,177 6,127 Field purchases, thousand m3sub 1,375 1,739 1,701 Central purchases and imports, thousand m3sub 2,979 3,079 2,819 Pine 70.4% Pine 54.9% Spruce 20.4% Spruce 36.4% Timber extraction as a proportion of growth Broad-leaved 9.2% Broad-leaved 8.7% on managed land, % 72 70 69 Age class distribution of Sveaskog's forest land Nature in Sveaskog Sveaskog’s land consists of different parts. The following diagram describes the size of Managed area1, % the different parts and how much is excluded from forestry. (In many contexts, Sveaskog states that it sets aside 20% for nature conservation. That is 20% of all productive forest 0–19 ............ 25.8 land below the mountains and montane forests. This diagram comprises all land). 20–39 ......... 25.5 Lakes and waterways. 40–59 ......... 25.0 5 9 Open bog, rocky land and bare 60–79 .......... 12.0 mountains. 80–99 ............ 5.8 12 Forest land Open woodland according to 100–119 ....... 2.5 according to FAO.1 120–139....... 2.0 FAO¹ exemptProductive forest set aside for 57 11 ed from fornature conservation. 140–159....... 0.9 estry (29%) 160+............... 0.5 6 Consideration for nature on managed productive forest land. Managed productive forest land. Unmanaged area2,% 1) FAO: Food and Agricultural Organisation, United Nations. 0–19 ............... 1.4 20–39 ............ 2.5 40–59 ............ 3.0 60–79 ............. 2.8 80–99 ............ 5.3 100–119 ....... 9.5 120–139.... 15.3 1) 2.619 million ha. 140–159.... 18.3 2) 0.452 million ha. 160+............ 41.8 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 7 C EO’S C O M M E NTS Hannele Arvonen President and CEO. CEO’S COMMENTS Forests becoming increasingly important for sustainable development 2019 was a good year for Sveaskog. Demand for both sawlogs and pulpwood was high, but we also saw a clear slowdown in economic activity in 2019. Despite this, the market for our products and services was good. The damage caused in the year by, among other things, spruce bark beetle attacks hit us and other forest owners hard and this is likely to continue in 2020. I t is a great privilege for me to lead Sveaskog, a There are several examples of this. One example company that has such an important part to play in is our work in the wake of the dramatic storm Alfrida, the overall forest value chain. I have worked in the which damaged around one million cubic metres of timforest sector for 30 years, primarily in industry. Now ber. Much of the affected forest was located far from I have the opportunity to continue to work with these large sawmills with the capacity to receive the timber. issues but from a new perspective, at an earlier stage Instead, we recommissioned the nearby port of Harg of the value chain. I joined Sveaskog in July 2019 and and thanks to our rapid action we were able to quickly after having got to know Sveaskog from within, I feel dispose of our timber and that of our colleagues. great pride and commitment about how we conduct During the year we also signed an agreement with our business with regard to all aspects of sustainability. Gysinge Skog on performing services throughout the forest value chain. A third example is the “Precision Large customer focus Hunt” competition, in which around 230 felling teams We actively seek to understand our customers and from all over Sweden participated. The aim of the comhow they work, which is a critical success factor in petition was to optimise the measurement precision developing our offering and safeguarding our longof forestry machines and thus contribute to improved term competitiveness. quality for our customers. 8 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 C EO’S C O M M E NTS The market for our customers in the forest industry 2020 and the decision was taken because we are able slowed down markedly over the year, albeit from high to offer an adequate alternative through Conniﬂex, levels. This was most noticeable in the case of paper which is an environmentally friendly protection that pulp, where the price of market pulp has fallen sharpuses sand and glue to stop the beetle. ly, but this also applies to sawn timber. However, the favourable krona exchange rate has meant that SwedDialogue with stakeholders ish sawmills have continued to maintain a high proOne of the major debates in Swedish forestry is the duction rate, but together with a decrease in demand balance between different interests. For us as a statedue to market conditions and increased competition owned company, it is important to set an example, both from central European competitors, inventories have in nature conservation and by delivering a raw material increased to record levels. of the highest quality in respect of the green transition. I A problem for us in the year has been the multi-damsay that we have been successful in managing this balaged forests, which suffered attacks of various kinds ancing act, but of course we can always do better. Durand from different directions, both spruce bark beetles, ing the autumn we therefore conducted a comprehenfungal damage and grazing damage. The threat posed sive stakeholder dialogue around our sustainability work by spruce bark beetles to our own forests and those of to ﬁnd out more about what stakeholders think about others has prompted a major reassessment of priorities the way we manage our sustainability work, with a focus throughout the industry, including Sveaskog. on how we can successfully balance all economic, social One group that is important to Sveaskog is our and environmental interests. Looking at who the survey contractors. As a major player in the timber market, was sent to, you also understand how many stakeholdit is important that we also take social responsibility. ers Sveaskog has: Sami villages, parliamentary parties, The large ﬁres of recent years have been a cause of municipalities, nature tourism companies, researchers concern for our entrepreneurs, who are often small at universities, hunting and ﬁshing organisations, other business owners. Sveaskog has taken on board the landowners, investors, nature conservation organisations concerns and has decided to assume greater responand not least our customers and customers' customers. sibility than has been customary in the industry up to One in two respondents thought we were quite good now. I am proud of this. or very good at achieving a balance between economic, social and environmental interests. In 2020, we will take Record ﬁnancial results a closer look at various measures in line with the areas Despite many challenges, Sveaskog's operating profhighlighted by our stakeholders. it from continuing operations for 2019 amounted to MSEK 1,483 (1,422), an increase of just over 4% Our employees make a fantastic contribution compared with 2018. We delivered record results for In 2020, we will also continue to work on our stratethe second year running. The improvement on the gy, which includes asking ourselves what role we as a year before is to a large extent due to higher prices company should play in the future. One important issue for our products, which improved our margins. Good is the supply of skills and how we manage to recruit and stable operating proﬁts coupled with a strong new employees with the right skills around the country. capital structure enable Sveaskog to distribute stable I am proud that Sveaskog is an important part of dividends to its owner, the Swedish government. The the overall value chain that is generating climate-smart Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General products and growth in the bio-economy and thus conMeeting a dividend of SEK 1.1 billion. tributing to the effort to respond to climate change. An important task for us is to determine how to use and Sustainability throughout the business manage our forests in the best way and contribute The importance of forests for sustainable development to climate transition. We want to be a leader in using and the climate issue is becoming increasingly critical. and developing the role of the forest in the circular Standing timber binds carbon dioxide, but the forest also bio-economy. Our aim is to increase growth while fulcontributes in other ways, with our raw material being ﬁlling society’s and our own environmental and susused for other products such as bottles, propellant and tainability goals for the forest. cosmetics. I am very much looking forward to our work in 2020 Sustainability permeates everything we do and our and would like to end by thanking you for the warm ambitions are high. Sveaskog is actively working to welcome I have received in my new role. An extra big achieve the goals of the 2030 Agenda and although thank you to all our employees who support the comwe are working indirectly on all goals, we are currently pany and who deliver so much value every day. It is focusing on goals 9, 11 and 12, which deal with susentirely thanks to their ﬁne efforts every day that we tainable industry, cities and communities and sustainacan fulﬁl our mission and our goals. ble consumption. A warmer climate increases the risk of fungal attack in nurseries. In a partnership between Svenska SkogStockholm, March 2020 splantor business area and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), research projects are underway to ﬁnd alternatives to chemical control methods in order to prevent an increase in damage from fungal attack in the future. In 2019, we also decided to stop chemical control of pine weevils altogether. The Hannele Arvonen decision applies to all deliveries with effect from spring President and CEO A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 9 About Sveaskog TR E N DS AN D B USI N ESS E NVI RON M E NT Trends and business environment Green transition, wood as a material and bioeconomy The Swedish forest has an important role to play in Sweden's transition towards a fossil-free society. For example, a wooden house can continue to bind the carbon that trees once absorbed for a long time. Additionally, residues from the forest and forest industry can be processed into raw materials and products that replace fossil-based products in everything from fuel to plastics and clothing. The potential is great, but even if the raw material is renewable, it is not infinite and a wise use of resources is imperative. Sveaskog is actively working on optimising the use of wood raw material in all stages of the business, but also to develop new uses for waste products from the forest. Biodiversity In 2019, IPBES – the UN Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services was published. The report indicates that between half a million and one million species of animals and plants could be threatened with extinction globally. The situation in some parts of the world is acute and action must be Gender equality and diversity taken urgently. Although there are endangered species in Sweden, including lynx, long-legged frog and sea eagle, the situation is quite A clear majority of those working in the forestdifferent in Sweden. We see that biodiversity in many areas is ry industry are men. Even though the proporincreasing, not least with regard to certain bird species. This is position of women in the forestry industry and in tive, but we should always strive to become better. The process of training has increased, the industry is still combining profitable forestry with the preservation of high consergrappling with remnants of an old-fashioned vation values and biodiversity is a critical success factor for us. and outdated culture. The forest companies, including Sveaskog, are taking this very seriously and have introduced mandatory training involving discussion and reflection on norms and jargon, both at management level and for employees, and clear procedures for how individual cases should be handled and what the penalties might be. Gender equality and diversity are critical success factors for the industry in order to attract the right workforce today and in the future. Digitisation and innovation World economy In forestry, too, digitisation is enabling The forest industry supplies goods to completely new ways of working. An both Europe and the rest of the world. overview of the entire value chain from Changes in the world economy and the forest to the customer and the end geopolitical developments have a major consumer results in increased and impact on the Swedish forest industry iimproved use of forest resources. We im and thus also on Sveaskog. In 2019, use the latest available technology, u the international economy slowed including inc inclu lu drones, to study pest damage down and the market situation of our in forests, f apps to measure stands, and customers deteriorated during the year. X-ray methods to optimise the quality of Regardless of market conditions, end products for our customers. Sveaskog continued to focus on cusTechnological development helps to tomer satisfaction, along with efficiency optimise resource utilisation of our raw in our processes. materials, and is therefore also an important factor in sustainability work. 12 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 TR E N DS AN D B USI N ESS E NVI RON M E NT Tailwind for wind power We grant concessions for our land for sustainable electricity production using wind power. A large number of wind farms have come on stream in the last year and there are now 400 plants in operation on our land. Electricity production from the plants amounts to more than 3 TWh per year. Expansion is expected to continue at a high rate also in the coming years. In 2019, our wind power leases generated income of MSEK 65. Climate change Climate change as a result of emissions is one of the most important issues of our time and sustainable management of forests is a key factor in combating the greenhouse effect. Standing timber fulfils an important function through their carbon dioxide absorption and as Sweden's largest forest owner, Sveaskog has a responsibility to harness and develop the climate benefits of forests and forestry. Skills supply and forest knowledge Urbanisation means that forest knowledge in Swedish society is in danger of diminishing. A general challenge for the forest industry in the future is the relocation from the rural areas, which may mean that it will be more difficult to find employees where the forest is located. Our ambition is to create a variety of jobs and associated offices where our forests are located, which in the case of Sveaskog also includes sparsely populated parts of northern Sweden. In 2019, we opened an office in Boden as part of our strategy to expand our local presence. Transparency and dialogue – Partnership and cooperation The forest touches and engages us. In 2019 we saw growing interest in the forest from different directions. There are many views and opinions on how and for what purpose the forest should be managed and used. Starting a conRecreation and health structive discussion on climate is an It goes without saying that forests are important issue for everyone involved in important for many people's recreaforest issues. At Sveaskog we maintain tion. International research shows that a very active dialogue with our stakeproximity to nature and the ability to holders. In 2019, 276 formal consultamove around in nature may even be tions were carried out and we also conmore important than previously ducted a large stakeholder dialogue thought, both in terms of physical and with more than 200 stakeholders. mental health. The extensive road network that Sveaskog is building to reach the forest where we work also creates a public benefit from a public health perspective by making more and more forests accessible. Sveaskog is Sweden's largest private road maintenance body with a road network of 43,000 km. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 13 STAKE HOLDE RS AN D MATE R IALITY ASSESSM E NT Stakeholders and materiality assessment A company at the centre of society nomic, social and environmentally sustainable develThe forest touches and engages us and Sveaskog's opment and one in two thinks that Sveaskog is good forestry affects many different groups. This applies at conducting an open and constructive dialogue with to both forestry and nature conservation and how the interest group the stakeholder represents. the work affects other industries, including reinAccording to stakeholders, our most important areas deer husbandry and nature tourism and, of course, are: Role model in sustainable forestry , More biodihow felling affects biodiversity. The fact that we are versity and Research and development in the forest a large landowner also affects several other stakesector , which corresponds well with our own ambitions. holders, including municipalities and sports clubs, When we ask two opposing questions: In which as well as hunters and ﬁshermen who are active on of the following areas do you think Sveaskog is a Sveaskog's land. role model in the industry in terms of sustainable We therefore have an ongoing dialogue with our development? and Which of the following areas do primary stakeyou think are important for Sveaskog to work on to holders and meet promote sustainable development? , we see a gap According to stakeholders, with them severin several areas. There is a disparity between stakeour most important areas al times a year. holders' views on what we should be doing and how are: Role model in sustainable In 2019, we had they perceive what we are actually doing. For exam276 formal meetple, 7% of stakeholders consider Sveaskog to be a forestry , More biodiversity ingswith Sami role model in biodiversity, while 47% believe that it is and Research and development villages, county important for us to work speciﬁcally on this area in in the forest sector . administrative order to achieve sustainable development. In order boards, the Swedto create greater understanding of what we do, it is ish Forest Agency important that we report this in a clearer way. and other authorities (in 2018 the number was 267). In addition, there are meetings with customers, civil sociMateriality assessment ety and interest groups, representatives of the local Every year, Sveaskog performs a materiality assesscommunity, including landowners and small businessment which lists the most important issues from a es, and of course our owner, the state, but also the varsustainability perspective. These are the sustainabiliious political parties, locally as well as nationally. ty issues that have the greatest impact on Sveaskog, but also issues that Sveaskog as a company is able Major stakeholder dialogue 2019 to inﬂuence. In addition to the survey responses, In 2019, our ambition was to expand the dialogue stakeholders' views are based on a number of index even further and we therefore conducted a large surmeasurements with in-depth questions addressed vey comprising a questionnaire for 247 stakeholders to different groups: employees, customers and at the end of the year. The response rate was high, local organisations. The views of stakeholders are nearly 40%. This suggests a high level of engagethen compiled and the various issues discussed ment, which is appreciated by us. Six out of ten stakein Sveaskog's internal sustainability council and in holders take a positive view of Sveaskog and two out Sveaskog's Group management. of ten are negatively disposed. One in two stakeholdThe areas with the highest overall ranking in the ers believes that Sveaskog is good at balancing ecoresulting assessment are: More biodiversity and raw Consultation Those who plan our felling also conduct consultations and dialogue meetings on consideration for nature and we have clear guidelines on how to take outdoor activities and recreation into consideration in felling. Therefore, separate dialogues are being conducted with relevant stakeholders, such as municipalities, private individuals, non-proﬁt associations such as community associations, nature conservation organisations, sports clubs or nature tourism entrepreneurs. After identifying the relevant parties, we inform them about planned actions and invite them to meet with us for discussion. When a number of stakeholders are involved, we refer to it as consultation. In order to ensure that the outcome corresponds to what was agreed by us and our stakeholders, the person who conducted the dialogue is responsible for the design of planning and follow-up of execution. Possible measures to give more consideration to forests for outdoor activities and rest areas may include selective felling methods, mosaic felling, different types of screens, shared felling on time and avoiding ground preparation in sensitive areas, especially with regard to outdoor activities. 14 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 STAKE HOLDE RS AN D MATE R IALITY ASSESSM E NT material for sustainable transition. This refers to harexample. Contributing to a living countryside by pronessing of the climate beneﬁts of the forest and providing jobs is of course important for our contractors, tection of biodiversity, as well as the possibilities of who also want to see a focus on skills issues. This wood raw materials being used as a substitute for includes the importance of game management in materials from fossil sources. Research and develrelation to local hunting teams to deal with elk grazopment of renewable energy systems and bio-based ing damage. materials and the importance thereof is highlighted During the year, Sveaskog also began to step up by both customers and representatives of industry efforts to ﬁnd ways to measure biodiversity, an issue and education. raised by environmental organisations and also by Climate issues such as increased carbon sequescustomers and industry. Sveaskog's felling also has tration, carbon storage and climate adaptation are an impact on areas that are important for the reinvery pressing issues for most stakeholder groups, deer industry. Both forestry and the reindeer industry which also reﬂects the importance of the climate will remain active on the same land in the future and challenge in society and public debate. Other major therefore a functioning coexistence is of great imporissues concern social aspects such as working tance. Great value is placed on this area by both the environment and health, as well as gender equality reindeer industry and representatives from environand diversity where Sveaskog is expected to set an mental organisations and the local community. Materiality assessment, aggregate level SUPPORT FOCUS • Hunting, ﬁshing and outdoor activities • Increased biodiversity • Rights of indigenous peoples • Raw material for sustainable transition • Community engagement and social responsibility • Role model in sustainable forestry • Coexistence with others on our land • Climate impact, climate adaptation Importance for stakeholders • Research and development in the forest sector • Working environment and health • Gender equality and diversity SAFEGUARD NURTURE • Business ethics and anti-corruption • Financial performance • Local employer and client • Game management elk grazing • Integration • Supplier control • Skills development • Fossil-free production • Customer satisfaction Sveaskog's impact on sustainable development A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 15 The forest – a fantastic resource Boles Bottles made from recycled paper are already a reality today. Fishing Bulletproof Packaging vests Nanocellulose is a Plastic food packaging is a major material derived from environmental villain. Intensive develthe forest and is as opment work is underway to replace strong as kevlar, that is, plastic packaging with climate-smart ﬁve times stronger than alternatives based on wood. steel. Nanocellulose Hunting can be turned into bicycle helmets, bulletproof vests and car chassis. Clothes Clothes have been made from forest ﬁbres for a long time, but now Baeries there is technology to Swedish researchers are currently produce soft, recylooking at how lignin can store clable fabric made of electricity. Lignin accounts for around wood. a quarter of the content of a tree. Hiking Furniture Fuel Wood is one of the most widePine oil-based diesel is ly used materials in furniture mixed into fossil-based fuels manufacturing. to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Tools Forest baths Axes and other tools have Heating oil been partly made of wood since ancient times – and Crude pine oil can be used as a many are still being made substitute for fossil heating oil as from it. fuel in boilers. Cosmetics Wood Make up from the forest One of most important uses of the Birdwatching – yes, really! Today some tree. Wood becomes doors, windows, make up products use kitchen cabinets, bookshelves, cottagmoisturising agents from es, patios... and many other things that the forest. we humans use, indoors and out. Wrap Plastic-like biomaterials Toilet paper already exist, but intensive Wood provides pulp, which in turn is made into Skiing research is being carried toilet paper, among other out on developing biomaterials from the forest. In things. the future, there will be degradable plastic wrap made from materials from trees. Mushroom picking Chips Cellulose chips from pulpwood are used in the proFirewood duction of paperAn open ﬁre has provided warmth, making pulp. light and cooking Picnics facilities since time immemorial. Toys Toys are not just plastic. Many toys are still made of Baeries wood. Swedish researchers are currently looking at how lignin can store electricity. Lignin accounts for around a quarter of the content of a tree. Kayaking Newspapers Magazines and newspapers are made from Climate-smart paper pulp, which in houses turn comes from trees. Wood for houses is a large and important area of use as it offers a good indoor climate and is climate-smart. Ecotourism 3D material Fish pellets Packaging Nanocellulose made from The pulp from trees is It is now possible to tree branches and tops can turned into a number of extract protein from the be used as a bio-based important paper products, branches and tops of material for 3D printing of including packaging for trees and this can then degradable products. industry and for private become climate-friendindividuals. ly ﬁsh food. Musical Camping instruments Matches Violins, cello and double bass Aspen is used for are some of the instruments that making matches. are made of wood. Translucent wood Chemicals Swedish researchers have recently invented a translucent wood The chemical compounds found in trees can be used material that can be used in the manufacture of solar cells and Running in products such as paints, building panels. varnish and glue. They can also improve the anticorrosive properties of paints and prolong the shelf life of food or detergents. Artiﬁcial grass pitches Tree branches and tops are processed for use in artiﬁcial grass pitches and bioplastics. Walking Medicines There are many chemical compounds in the trees’ cellulose that can be used as constituent parts in the manufacture of medications and care materials. Berry picking From seedling to climate-smart buildings Sveaskog is Sweden's largest forest owner with around 14% of the productive forest land in Sweden. Our most important mission is to manage the and tend to the forest for a sustainable future. Ground preparation Regeneration Before planting, the soil is Pine and spruce are the dominant usually prepared through ground tree species, but in some cases preparation. we also plant broad-leaved trees. Planting is the most common method of regeneration, but seed sowing or natural regeneration is also used to some extent. For every tree fell, three new plants are planted. A pine plant in the north grows at around half the rate of plants in southern Sweden. Wood raw material in the green transition Because of its many areas of use and development, renewable wood raw material is an important piece of the puzzle in the green transition to a circular bioeconomy. Chemical-free plant protection Svenska Skogsplantor, a business area within Sveaskog, is Sweden's largest supplier of plants to forest owners. In addition to plant production, Svenska Skogsplantor has developed the chemical-free pine weevil plant protection Conniﬂex, which consists of sand and water-based glue. FSC-certified forestry All our forest is FSC® certified a guarantee that we manage our forests responsibly. We also require all our suppliers to comply with transparency and traceability requirements. FSC® is an independent international organisation for certification of responsible forestry. The aim is for forests to be managed responsibly, both environmentally, socially and economically. FSC®-C008344 Cleaning Thinning 14% of forest Cleaning is an important silviculThinning is the most important Sveaskog owns 14% of the productive tural measure which improves the action that can be performed forest in Sweden, or around 3 million quality and value of the forest. Effiin the forest. By removing weak hectares. Every year, we regenerate or cient cleaning is used to control and damaged trees in order to thin 40,000-50,000 hectares. At the the development of forest stands promote growth of stems of same time, the growth of our forests and create space for optimal good quality, a valuable stand is are at a faster rate than we fell because development of the best stems. created. regeneration exceeds extractions. Innovation Community builders Products from the forest can replace plasWe are present where the forest is and tics and fossil fuels. Sveaskog is involved create jobs for the rural areas. In addition in developing fuels of the future through to jobs, we create important infrastructure. the companies SunPine and SunCarbon. In We are Sweden's largest road management 2019, our associate Setra set up a plant for company with more than 40,000 km of road. pyrolysis oil, which is a basis for biofuels. We also make a significant contribution to welfare – in 2019, more than SEK 1.1 billion was returned to the state. Gentle tle forestrystry In our forestry we take into consideration conservation values, outdoor activities and cultural environments. In 2019 these considerations were 98 per cent successful – the same high level as in 2018. Regeneration felling Regeneration felling, felling or ﬁnal felling are the measures in forestry that generate the greatest income. Home to game It is important to have a game stock that is in balance with availability of feed in order to keep grazing damage to pine plants at an acceptable level. Sveaskog sells hunting and ﬁshing licenses and leases hunting grounds to hunting teams worth around SEK 80 million per year. Customer focus Forest is a raw material that takes its time. This means our responsibility to our customers must also be long-term and sustainable. Sveaskog works together with a number of Sweden's largest wood and pulp industries to guarantee that they will receive a constant and long-term ﬂow of raw material both from the company’s own forests and via purchases from smaller, private forest owners. Ecoparks Sveaskog owns and manages 37 ecoparks from Raslången's beech forests in the borders between Blekinge and Skåne to Naakaavaara's unspoilt Climate-smart houses wilderness between Pajala and Kiruna. As the population increases, so Together they cover 175,000 hectares. does demand for wood raw material Some ecoparks are completely set aside by 2025, approximately 250,000 for nature conservation, but in others we new homes need to be built. Our undertake sustainable forestry; however, annual forest growth corresponds to never on more than 50% of the land. approximately 275,000 wooden houses. STAKE HOLDE RS Sveaskog has many commied stakeholders and their views on which areas are most important to Sveaskog in terms of promoting sustainable development diﬀer from one stakeholder to another. This is what the stakeholders have to say: Customer: Think tanks: Sveaskog should reinforce the message that active Take responsibility for management of the forest not only enables absorption biodiversity and the climate issue, of CO2, but also provides an opportunity to produce and let this guide you when you products that can replace products that are currently engage in public debate.” based on fossil raw materials.” Sami villages: Sveaskog must take responsibility for the conditions of the Sami reindeer industry and respect traditional knowledge in land use. In particular, land use in coexistence is something that the company should focus on.” As a state-owned forestry company, extra consideration should be given to longterm sustainable forestry and more consideration given to the local population in sparsely populated areas and Sami reindeer industry.” Other state-owned companies: Investors: Sveaskog must illustrate the values You must not make mistakes, you must of the forest, both as raw material and as always perform beer than expected and you living forest, and protect them.” must take concrete action.” Politicians: Contractor: Sveaskog must promote sustainable development by being Sveaskog must try to get the part of the climate change transition, both through timber younger generation interested in production and by safeguarding biodiversity.” forestry. Contractors like us need to have access to labour willing to work for us.” Nature conservation organisation: Openness and transparency towards stakeholders and the general public is important. Sveaskog must be at the forefront of alternative forms of forestry in maers relating to consideration for nature and green infrastructure.” Supplier: Take active measures to stop game “Forest utilisation must take place within the grazing damage” boundaries of nature. In concrete terms, this means “An important issue to consider is: What that objectives relating to biodiversity, ecosystem and how will we replant in the future in services (e.g. carbon absorption) must set boundaries view of climate change.” for forestry systems and their application.” Research/Universities: Sveaskog should focus on production issues in forestry, but also set aside areas for nature conservation purposes.” “Increased participation in the discussion on production versus the environment. The company should act in a way that shows how to balance the two issues. Be a good example.” 16 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 STAKE HOLDE RS We listen to our stakeholders Every stakeholder is important to Sveaskog and we issues highlighted by most stakeholder groups. The Sami have a responsibility towards everyone. But sometimes villages highlight the importance of working with the opinions diverge; for example, whether we should make rights of indigenous peoples and coexistence on the land. more or less use of the forest, and also about how forest An important task for Sveaskog is to contribute to a good management should be carried out. Opinions also differ balance between utilisation and conservation. In addition on which issues are most important for Sveaskog's. to all stakeholders agreeing that Sveaskog should be a Recurring comments are that Sveaskog should set an role model, they also consider active and transparent example in sustainable forestry, safeguard the supply communication to be important. Several stakeholder of raw materials to contribute to sustainable transition groups also focus on the issue of gender equality. and work for the preservation of biodiversity. These are Sample activities and initiatives: Research and development and raw material for Biodiversity and illustration of forest values the renewable transition – both as raw material and as living forest – • A number of projects are underway relating to and safeguarding of these values, in order to renewable transition, such as Suncarbon, which maximise sustainable value creation today and is looking to make fuel from the residue lignin. in the long term. • Climate-adapted forestry is a multi-layered issue; • We use a model called IP&L, which means that in addition to safeguarding raw material for we measure the company's values and impact in sustainable transition, it is also a matter of using these areas: financial, social, human and natural the forest in as climate-smart a way as possible, capital. In 2020, we will develop the model by minimising damage from e.g. spruce bark beetles, working with researchers and environmental as well as dealing with the issue of: What does a organisations to develop a step to measure changing climate mean for forestry . biodiversity too. • In 2020, we will commence cooperation Gender equality and diversity with Järvzoo Animal Park and the Swedish • Measures relating to gender equality and Environmental Protection Agency on a project diversity are an important issue for society and, focusing on the ­­white-backed woodpecker. not least, a relevant and critical success factor The objective is to contribute to the breeding for the forest industry. Sveaskog is expanding and resettlement of white-backed woodpeckers. and now intensifying its collaboration with The white-backed woodpecker is a so-called universities and colleges and other external umbrella species; by taking measures for its stakeholders. Gender equality in industry and conservation, other sensitive species are also the workplace is a prerequisite for remaining an protected. attractive employer. Openness and transparency Coexistence with others on our land linked to the • We must work to ensure that dialogue rights of indigenous peoples replaces debate and polarisation by actively • We conduct around 300 consultations a year, seeking relationships that generate insight, of which around 150 are with the reindeer knowledge and commitment. We must also take industry. Those that are most productive are the communicative measures to increase knowledge consultations carried out in the field. We must and understanding of our activities and work. steer development towards more consultations involving dialogue and follow-up in the field. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 17 Menna Gilbertsson, legal adviser. There are few workplaces that offer the breadth of legal tasks that Sveaskog does. Legal review of beaver dam one day, contract negotiations worth millions of Swedish krona the next. I have so much fun almost all the time!” It is a fun challenge to annually produce as many good quality plants as possible under given conditions. Usually everything works smoothly, thanks to knowledgeable and Leif Risberg, timber buyer. commied employees.” Working with the team to create Martin Larsson, cultivation supervisor added value for property owners makes the work varied and a lot of fun.” Many diﬀerent professional roles at Sveaskog In 2019, we had 807 employees and there are many different types of occupations at Sveaskog. The different categories also illustrate Ida-Maria Rigoll, Site Manager at modern forestry and the ambitious nature conservation work Sveaskog Mörrum Kronolaxfiske salmon fishery. is performing. What is most fun about my job as site manager in Mörrum is the variety The jobs range from more traditional forestry occupations to of the work. Managing a watercourse which is also a major visitor destinaemployees who work with the latest technology and various support tion is a constant balancing act. functions such as legal affairs, communications and HR. On these However, to be able to work with something that means so much to so pages you will meet some of the employees at Sveaskog. many people is a bonus.” Hunting and ﬁshing are a big and important part of many people's lives, identity and our common history. In my job, I make this possible through concessions for our land and waterways. The challenge lies in managing game to secure future sustainable forestry.” Anna-Maria Rautio, Hunting and Big Game Manager Anna Malmqvist, Account Manager. I have the privilege of meeting our customers. The fun part is developing our cooperation together with customers so that we both can improve. 18 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 DI FFE R E NT ROLES AT SVEASKOG We have a certain amount of freedom to solve any problems that arise ourselves, within set boundaries, which makes the work an interesting challenge.” Sören Ekenberg and Bengt Ekenberg, machine operators I am fortunate that I am able As area manager in Vindeln, I am one of to work with something that four people responsible for the manageI am passionate about, the nature ment of Sveaskog's holdings within TEAM conservation issues are many and Vindeln's borders. A large part of the work varied, and I also get to work with involves felling planning in the ﬁeld. The rest colleagues all over the country. I do of the work consists of everything that makes everything from GIS analyses to it possible for us to be able to utilise our forcoordinating investment projects. ests in the long term. This involves everything It really is the case that no two from Sami consultations to breaking ground days are the same.” for new roads.” Erik Thelberg, Area Manager Malin Norderman, Nature Conservation Specialist A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 19 M ISSION & STRATEGY Strategic direction d volume output from th an our Sveaskog’s vision is to “Lead the way grow ow ease ot h er income and incom nf or to a sustainable society.” This vision cr a se hin g a n d land e f es In re g , ﬁ s ro t Inc untin leas es m is embodied in ﬁve overarching h goals and should be achieved by balancing and unifying In ase economically, socially and The most proﬁtable cre Develop l forestry company environmentally sustainable eade in the short and the rs long term a n d e m pl oyee hip development. Sveaskog has o therefore fully integrated value s hi The ﬁrst choice Leading The customers’ p f timber sustainable business into for employees and foremost and most contractors the way to a knowledgeable its business strategy and sustainable partner society business plan development. A leader in A leader in sustainable innovation nc forestry and eﬃciency in y of cr is tr In k s ea at ea e ion Sv og se c ci m ’s su o n ﬁ e e ﬃ ad st d h d ain ence e t an ab in c r eas ion le f In uct ore ro d stry the p The most proﬁtable forestry company in the short and long term The ﬁrst choice Sveaskog sells sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel to customers throughout the country and designs and plans products and deliveries based on for employees and customers’ needs. Volumes from own forests, prices of products and contractors efﬁciency of operations and administration are the most important factors in terms of proﬁtability. Good proﬁtability creates scope for Sveaskog is actively working to attract new continuing to develop the business. The further processing of forest employees with new skills and the company assets through purchases and sales, as well as exchanges of forest land, wants to be an attractive employer. Motivated is another means of safeguarding good, long-term value development. and committed employees with the relevant skills are a prerequisite for operating a Increase growth and volume of timber materials from the forest and for forest successful business. extractions from our own forests land. Biofuels from forest industry resiWork is underway in the company on a dues are an important development area Good contractors are a critical success factor. In broad effort to increase growth in the forthat is signiﬁcant for the green transition. order to be able to attract the most committed and est. The measures include improvements knowledgeable contractors, our goal is for contracand development of forest management tors to regard Sveaskog as their ﬁrst choice. and the use of processed forest plants. Efforts to reduce damage such as elk Develop leadership and employeeship grazing damage and spruce bark beetle Forestry is a future industry. Sveaskog provides Results infestations are also important for growth. many different jobs throughout Sweden and is conSveaskog delivered tinuously working on developing both employeeIncrease other revenue record results for the second ship and leadership. Gender equality and increased Increased use of both wood and woodyear running. A declining but still diversity are areas that are important for being able land contributes to a larger business in good good market situation has to secure skills supply and continue to develop our the long term. Sveaskog is therefore parled to high prices for Sveaskog's operations. A challenge for the forestry industry in ticipating in various projects and activiproducts. the future is urbanisation, which may make it more ties aimed at creating new uses for raw difﬁcult to recruit in certain locations. 20 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 M ISSION & STRATEGY Customers’ A leader in innovation foremost and most and eﬃciency knowledgeable partner Innovation and development work focuses on projects that will increase production and productivity in forestry, reduce environmental impact or Satisﬁed and proﬁtable customers are create new uses for wood raw materials and forest land. a very important factor for Sveaskog's proﬁtability and a prerequisite for value Innovation is central to safeguarding Another important part of the develcreation in sustainable business. Sveaskog Sveaskog's sustainable development opment work is to make better use of is therefore keen to have long-term business and the company is involved in innothe entire value of timber. Preparation relationships and be a secure supplier. vation efforts in different parts of the of sawlogs has changed from being business in order to update existing standardised to now being customised Efforts to develop customer relations form part of our products and services and develop new according to each customer's requireday-to-day work and among other things involve the ones. In many cases, this is taking place ments, which increases value added. employees developing the business and business modin collaboration with other parties, such el together with customers. as researchers, customers or other stakeholders. The right quantity and quality Sveaskog carries out felling in more than 10,000 locaIncrease production eﬃciency tions every year, and wood of different tree species, qualResults and administrative eﬃciency ity, length and diameter is matched to the right customer. Digitisation and new technology are In order to evaluate In order to meet customers' needs, Sveaskog can also important if all parts of the business are the overall efﬁciency supplement the raw material from its own forest with purto be developed, and tools for cost-efimprovements, the change in chases from other forest owners in Sweden or abroad. fectiveness. Digital technologies are operating proﬁt/loss from conThe most important thing for customers is deliveries of the used in many different contexts, for tinuing operations across two right quantity and quality at the right time at the example to improve planning of forest years is measured, per unit of right price. management and also in conjunction volume and at ﬁxed prices. The with other new technologies to map target is an improvement of at pest attacks. Sveaskog is also working least two per cent per year. In Results together with its contractors to develop 2019, the target was not met, their activities. In Svenska Skogsplanmainly due to increased investThe most recent customer survey was contor, the focus is on increasing producments in the ﬁeld of forest ducted in 2018 and showed high and stable tion volume and expanding the busimanagement. Customer Satisfaction Index values. The values were higher for sawmill customers than for pulpness to the rest of the Nordic region. wood and biofuel customers respectively. Delivery quality and the availability and skills of Sveaskog's account managers were speciﬁcally mentioned. A leader in sustainable forestry Sveaskog's deﬁnition of sustainable forestry is active, proﬁtable and responsible utilisation of forests and forest land in a way that continuously creates growth, diversity and increased value for generations . The goal of being a leader in sustainalic good. Good ethics is a prerequisite Results ble forestry means that silviculture must for building trust and a strong brand. optimise forest growth while simulSveaskog’s ambition is to be a leader in In terms of the goal of achieving a more taneously ensuring biodiversity and sustainable forestry and the company balanced gender distribution where at least other environmental and social values. has historically been among the fore30% of the company’s workforce comprises Sveaskog's nature conservation work runners in several different areas linked women, things are moving in the right direction, comprises everything from landscape to the environment and sustainability. albeit relatively slowly. This is due to low staff planning to trees and clumps of trees. Read more about this on the timeline turnover because many people stay with the The measures involve both leaving areon pages 4-5. company for a long time. The Leadership Index as untouched but especially important improved, while the Motivated Employee Index are active measures to increase condeclined in the latest survey. Through strong focus on leadership development and employservation values. Sveaskog sets aside Results approximately 20% of productive forest Sveaskog measures its eeship, we are taking measures to achieve high land below the montane forest boundaimpact on the environment and stable values. The Contractor Index was last ry for nature conservation purposes. annually in connection with measured in a survey in 2018, when it showed In order to be able to work and crefelling. This includes measa decline. We interpreted the decline as being ate value, both Sveaskog and the forurement of driving damage, due to the underlying problem of our contracest industry need to enjoy a high level nature conservation trees and tors to recruit and retain staff, and the need for of trust among the public, customers environmental consideration stable business conditions. Sveaskog is conand employees. The company is thereareas. The target is to mantinuously working on developing dialogue and fore actively involved in society and age 99% without much impact cooperation, including the introduction in 2019 participates in industry initiatives that on the environment. In 2019, of a new contractor strategy aimed at safeare aimed at ensuring that the public Sveaskog succeeded in attainguarding good access to contractors and good feels conﬁdent that forests are being ing 98% (98). conditions for their business activities. managed responsibly and for the pubA N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 21 FOR EST AN D CLI MATE Forest and climate The Swedish forest is important for Sweden to achieve the goal of becoming the world's ﬁrst fossil-free welfare country. As the forest grows, it contributes to large sequestration of carbon dioxide. Forest products can be used to replace fossil resources and thus reduce climate impact. When we build with wood, the carbon is stored in society for several decades. Sveaskog wants to be a leader in harnessing and developing the forest's climate beneﬁt. S weden's forests grow and absorb more carbon fuels replace fossil diesel and when wood frames dioxide than they emit. This is why the forest replace building materials such as concrete and steel. is a carbon sink. Since the early 20th centuThe wood raw material that Sveaskog has harvested ry, stocks of standing timber in the Swedish forests during the year from its own forests has thus contribhave doubled, while extraction of wood raw material uted to almost 41 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from has also doubled. There are different perceptions in fossil sources being stored for a long time instead of society about the climate beneﬁts of managed and being released into the atmosphere. virgin forest respectively. Our opinion is that active sil1. Lundmark, et al., 2014 viculture measures carried out at the right time allow Sveaskog to safeguard high growth and thus high New climate goals carbon dioxide absorption. Because felling carried The forestry industry is dependent on heavy transout by Sveaskog is signiﬁcantly outweighed by annuport where there are usually no alternatives to lorries. al growth, this means that carbon stocks in standTransport accounts for half of the CO2 emissions ing timber are constantly increasing. In 2019, carbon generated by Sveaskog. Every year, 290,000 lorry stocks in Sveaskog's forests increased by an amount journeys are made, equivalent to two laps around the corresponding to 6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. world every day. Reducing climate impact is therefore In managed forests, an additional factor must be a top priority for Sveaskog and we therefore use fuels taken into account in the carbon balance – harvesting with a large mix of renewable fuels, streamlined transof trees. By extracting part of net growth as wood raw port logistics, and we also participate in experiments material, some of the forest's carbon stocks are transwith lorries that can carry larger volumes, which means ferred into the community in the form of various forest fewer journeys and lower emissions. We are replacing products. For example, a wooden house can continue oil boilers with pellet boilers in Svenska Skogsplanto bind the carbon that trees once absorbed for more tor’s greenhouses. The target is to reduce CO2 emisthan a hundred years. When wood raw material is sions by 30% by 2020 compared with 2010. We have used to replace fossil resources, a substitution effect also started working on setting even more ambitious also occurs. This occurs, for example, when paper climate targets by 2030. By year-end 2019, we had packaging replaces plastic, metal or glass, when bioachieved a reduction of 23%. 22 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 B IODIVE RSITY AN D 2030 AG E N DA Biodiversity Sveaskog's ambition is to increase biodiversity while give us a reference point for how biodiversity develops simultaneously increasing growth in the forest. and is impacted by our actions going forward. Forestry has an impact on biodiversity, but it has not This work will also provide us with a nuanced picbeen possible to make a monetary assessment of bioture of the state of the forest environment on our diversity within the framework of the Integrated Proﬁt land, giving us a starting point for monitoring. and Loss analysis. We have now started working on Biodiversity is also an area that several of our developing a model to measure and follow up biodistakeholders have highlighted as a priority issue for versity that has a relevant and scientiﬁc basis. This will Sveaskog. 2030 Agenda Sveaskog's activities and value creation contribning . See page 22 for more information about the ute to the 17 sustainability goals of the UN 2030 forest and climate. Agenda for Sustainable Development. According to Goal 15: Ecosystems and biodiversity the government's action plan for the 2030 AgenSveaskog's goal is to combine proﬁtable forestry da, Sweden should be a leader in the implementawith ambitious nature conservation work to reduce tion of the agenda with a transition both at home the negative impact of forestry on ecosystems. Releand in the global system. Sveaskog is taking active vant target 15.2. Promote sustainable forest forestmeasures to achieve these goals and although we ry, halt deforestation and restore degraded forests . work indirectly on all goals, we have identiﬁed some See pages 26-27 for more information about our goals where our contribution will be most relevant. nature conservation work. Sveaskog has also carried out an analysis of the company's value creation and the added value genThree important goals to which erated by the business and forest assets. Sveaskog is contributing Five goals where Sveaskog has strong strategies Goal 9: Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and the empowerSveaskog's priority is to participate in research and ment of all women and girls development in order to contribute to new innovative With increased gender equality and diversity, the solutions based on wood raw material to phase out recruitment base is broadened and future skills prothe use of fossil oil and reduce carbon dioxide emisvision improved. Relevant target 5.5. Ensure full parsions. See pages 40-41 for more information about ticipation of women in leadership and decision-makour work on innovation and development. ing . See pages 34-35 for more information about our work on gender equality and diversity. Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities The development towards building with wood is proGoal 7: Sustainable energy for all gressing rapidly and it is possible to build both larger Sveaskog produces biofuel that provides renewaand higher. We have identiﬁed partnerships in wood ble energy from the forest, grants concessions for construction as a potential focus area for the develrenewable electricity generation in the form of wind opment of a sustainable value chain. See page 30 power and is an active contributor to the production for more information about our sawlogs range. of pine oil-based diesel, which is a component of renewable diesel. Relevant target 7.2. Increase the Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production share of renewable energy in the world . See page Sveaskog's analysis of multidimensional value cre31 for more information about our Biofuel range. ation provides insights into negative and positive impacts from the business, and acts as a tool for furGoal 8: Decent work and economic growth ther streamlined timber production with higher posiSveaskog's activities contribute to a living countrytive impact and increased climate beneﬁt. See pages side and economic growth outside the big cities. The 24-25 for more information about our methods for skills of contractors are important for Sveaskog's measuring all forest values. ability to create efﬁcient processes and satisﬁed customers. Relevant target 8.8. Protect labour rights and promote a safe and secure working environment for all . See page 39 for more information Combining business and about our work on a new contractor strategy. sustainability beneﬁts Sveaskog has large opportunities for combining sustainability benGoal 13: Combat climate change eﬁts with business beneﬁts because our business involves built-in The forest absorbs carbon dioxide, and standing timdouble value creation. Thanks to the forest's positive ability to capber absorbs most of it. Sveaskog is actively working ture carbon dioxide and because the products created by customto reduce dependence on fossil energy sources and ers from our raw material are renewable, we contribute to sustainable development and the green transition of society. Thanks to this has set goals and action plans to reduce its own carvalue creation, Sveaskog is in a position to develop its business bon dioxide emissions. Relevant target 13.2. Intestrategy into an even more sustainable business strategy. grate climate change measures into policy and planA N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 23 SUSTAI NAB LE VALU E CHAI N All the values of the forest in a sustainable Hidden added value in the value chain In a value chain from forest to customer, values are created in the company’s own operations, and the company's sales generate a ﬁnancial gain. But through forest ownership and forest management, other values are also created. Sveaskog uses the IP&L method, see fact box below, to measure and account for hidden values that exist but which have not previously been measured, such as recreation. Sveaskog's standing timber also binds large amounts of carbon dioxide and has a regulatory effect on the water cycle. Our core business is to carry out forestry and trading in Natural capital – Carbon sequestration wood raw material. This generates direct values in our Our standing timber binds carbon dioxide and prodown business (see foldout), a net profit, but also indirect ucts from wood raw material can be used to replace added value – previously hidden values that we were materials from fossil sources. In this way, the forest is aware of but were unable to measure in figures. used as an important piece of the puzzle in the climate In 2018, Sveaskog launched calculations of these previchallenge. ously hidden values which showed generated added The more the forest grows, the greater the carbon dioxvalue of approximately SEK 12 billion per year. ide uptake. Carbon dioxide sequestration over time is therefore greatest in managed forests. In older forests, the absorption of carbon dioxide and the climate benefits are reduced, at the same time as old forest represents an unreliable carbon stock because it is vulnerable to, for example, pest attacks or fires. The value of Social capital carbon dioxide sequestration is calculated within IP&L in accordance with internationally accepted models. Our network of forest roads makes forests accessible to the public – for recreation and outdoor activities. Our forest roads also facilitate rapid action in emergencies, for example, firefighting – a great value for society. Social capital includes the value of hunting, fishing, berry picking and recreation on our land. Natural capital – water management Forests have a very important role to play in the water cycle through precipitation uptake, the water-holding properties of the forest ground and the Human capital contribution to groundwater. We have valued this in the Sveaskog generates values for its IP&L model. employees in the form of e.g. education, skills development, wellness and pension provisions; values that belong to the individual and are not visible in the income statement. Natural capital – biological diversity Financial capital Biological diversity is not yet factored into the calculaIn addition to the company's dividend tion. During the year, we started work on developing to the owner – the state – Sveaskog indicators for measuring and following up on our biocontributes to GDP through taxes, logical diversity work. interest and salaries to employees. Fact box on the calculation of all values of the forest The <IP&L>TM evaluation model involves holistic and integrated evaluation in monetary terms of the company's impact and value creation through four different types of capital. The model was developed by the internationally renowned sustainability economist Pavan Sukhdev and his team GIST Advisory. The four types of capital are Financial, Social, Human and Natural Capital, and the result is an illustration of the company's overall positive and negative impact. The values are based on data from 2016 in addition to financial capital, which is the figure for 2019. The methodology, IP&L™, highlights the company's value added in terms of ecosystem services and public benefit, in addition to the economic value of timber production. It comprises the company's various types of impact and contributions in areas related to climate and water as well as land use and social values. The calculation also includes negative impacts such as the greenhouse gas emissions generated by the operations. The analysis is described in further detail in Note S2. The value of biodiversity has not been evaluated within the framework of IP&L – during the year we started work on measuring and evaluating our nature conservation work with regard to biodiversity . 24 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 SUSTAI NAB LE VALU E CHAI N value chain The ﬁnancial values of the value chain The things that create value through forestry create value for customers and society. The renewable raw material from the forest is processed by our customers. Primarily sawlogs, which are the most valuable part of the tree. Other parts of the tree are used in the pulp and paper industry, while residues from forestry and from the forest industry are further processed into biofuels, chemicals and new innovative materials and uses, see pages 16-17 (outside of foldout). The whole tree is thus used for different purposes. In this way, we contribute to strengthening the sustainability of the value chain, from raw material to end consumer. Responsible purchasing and selection The added value generated by us in of serious suppliers is an important part Sveaskog, enables us to contribute downof a sustainable value chain. We ensure stream to a sustainable value chain. This services are performed well through a also increases added value for the next service declaration with specific stage – our customers. In our role as a susrequirements for our contractors and tainable supplier of wood raw material, we through field checks. ensure that we meet the demands of our Our contractors’ business activities customers’ customers – we contribute to a contribute to a living countryside sustainable value chain. through jobs and infrastructure support in the local community. Construction industry Sawn wood Carpentry and products furniture industry Transport and packaging Sawmills Boards type plywood, Chips and shavings masonite, MDF Pulp mills Energy Sapwood and bark Energy, fuel and chemicals Multidimensional 6.7 value creation, net1 SEK billion/year 2.8 2.7 SEK billion/year SEK billion/year 0.2 SEK billion/year Financial capital Social capital Human capital Natural capital 1) The financial capital figure is for 2019, for other capital the figures are from 2016. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 25 We have high ambitions for nature conservation Sveaskog combines proﬁtable forestry with the preservation of high conservation values. Already in 2002, we decided to make long-term nature conservation set-asides corresponding to 20% of the productive forest land. In our nature conservation work we use three different strategies with different geographical scales: Ecoparks, High Conservation Value Forests and Consideration for nature in the productive forest. On these pages we describe the various tools. Bogs and other Environmental consideration areas le behind so-called impediments are not utilised at all. in productive forests Every year we perform felling in several thousand locations around Sweden. In all cases, conservation value inventories are made before felling in order to take necessary consideration measures to preserve threatened environments and species and these inventories are available on sveaskog.se since 2018. The purpose of these is to find ecologically important structures and elements. It is relatively common for the inventory to show that there are small areas with high conservation values in the forest. In these cases, Sveaskog ensures that the substrates required by the species are present both within set-aside areas and within the environmental consideration areas left untouched during felling. These areas might include small forest areas containing dead wood, old, thick trees or waterways. In this way, sustainable forestry and valuable structures, substrates and environments can exist together in the same forest also in the future. Whenever we carry out felling or cleaning, we leave behind important environments for plants and animals. These areas may include biotopes requiring consideration, edge zones along water and bogs or individual trees, tree stands and high stumps. Set-aside high conservation value forests High conservation value forests cover a total of 300,000 hectares and vary in size from a half to several hundred hectares. These set-asides are spread all over the country. In the north, most of the high conservation value forests are left to develop freely, while in the southern part of the country, they are often managed in order to recreate or reinforce conservation values. Sveaskog sets aside forest with the highest conservation values as high conservation value forests. If new forest suitable for conservation is discovered, for example during inventory before felling, this forest is exchanged for land with lower conservation values in order to always improve the quality of the set-aside forests. A further 50,000 hectares of high conservation value forests have been set aside on our land above the boundary for montane forests. Management of Sveaskog's montane forests is carried out in accordance with FSC® regulations. 26 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NATU R E CONSE RVATION Sveaskog has 37 ecoparks with an average size of about 5,000 hectares. In total, they cover 174,000 hectares. The ecoparks can be found all around Sweden, from thickly foliaged beech forests by Lake Raslången in the border areas between Blekinge and Skåne to Naakajärvi's vast old spruce forests between Pajala and Kiruna. Ecoparks Ecoparks are large, contiguous forest landscapes with authorities, non-proﬁt organisations, the reinwith high conservation values and nature conservadeer industry and others. tion ambitions. They combine extensive protection of Ecoparks also include some of the country's most large areas with restoration of conservation values important outdoor areas for nature experiences and and forestry with an adapted approach to considrecreation, and several nature tourism companies eration for nature. We want to use ecoparks to crealso have operations in the ecoparks. Sveaskog ate a new nature conservation tool that combines wants to provide more opportunities for experiencutilisation with conservation. Relatively few species ing nature and is therefore working on developing depend on the entire landscape being excluded from information about and accessibility to the ecoparks. wood production, but there are species that depend In 2019, we carried out an active campaign to attract on landscapes with a high proportion of high consermore visitors to our ecoparks. We have also entered vation value forests, which is the case in ecoparks. into cooperation with the Scouts to give more people In the ecoparks we combine forestry with nature the chance to experience and get to know nature. conservation to both preserve and develop high conAmong other things, several of our ecoparks will be servation values. The work is carried out according to mapped and documented on the internet. management plans that we develop in consultation Examples of restoration measures in ecoparks Thirty-year-old spruce plantation immediately before Same area after measures are implemented. Parts of the measures are implemented. ecopark’s natural values, in this case linked to aspen, have been preserved. Example of measures: Burning for nature conservation Example of measures: Wetland restoration with dam that purposes. leaves forest submerged. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 27 Financial year 2019 CUSTOM E R OPE RATIONS FINANCIAL YEAR JUST ENDED Our customers Wide range of sawlogs Sveaskog offers a wide range of sawlogs in order to satentire production and supply chain. This requires a good isfy customers requirements. The requirements relate to dialogue and cooperation not only with customers and different volumes, tree species, qualities and dimensions. the company’s own internal working groups, but also Sales can range from standard deliveries to complex, with contractors and transport companies. We are also customised orders. In order to meet customers' needs, working on adapting the dimensions and qualities of the Sveaskog can supplement the timber from its own fortimber according to customer requirements. ests with externally purchased volumes. The trend is Sveaskog supplies more than half of the sawmills towards increased specialisation in the sawmills, which in Sweden, which produce more than 10,000 m³ per requires Sveaskog to constantly improve delivery preciyear. There are a total of around 130 such sawmills and sion. The work involves using new digital technology to around 70 of them are Sveaskog's customers. The sawcarry out forest inventories in order to ensure that the mills vary from privately owned family businesses to right product from the tree is received by the right cusglobal conglomerates based in Sweden. They, in turn, tomer. Sveaskog is working consistently to improve its supply mainly the construction and furniture industry in Sweden and abroad. The four largest export countries for Swedish sawn wood products are the UK, Egypt, Norway and Germany. ANETTE WAARA Performance in 2019 Market Area North The market for sawn wood products is heavily dependaccounts for a large ent on construction activity. Prices of sawn wood prodproportion of the raw ucts also declined in the reporting year. Since peaking material supply to many of our in the third quarter of the previous year, prices fell by customers. Our delivery reliability is around 15%. Deliveries of sawlogs in 2019 amounted to therefore often crucial for 4,743 thousand m³sub (4,776). customers' production. After a period of some instability in the spring of 2019, we have increased our focus on production management and secure deliveries in the value chain. This work has yielded very good results and we now feel both secure and proud of our capacity to deliver to our sawlogs and pulpwood customers. Stable and well-planned deliveries are Total deliveries of important for the competitiveness wood raw material1 of our customers and appreciated by them. We have also worked 1,701 thousand m³sub + 6,128 + 2,819 thousand m³sub thousand m³sub purposefully to enhance the prepurchased from private from z own forests purchased from other paration of our products. Another area which Market Area North forest owners. = forest owners and through imports. focused on in 2019 involved increasing our ability to make forecasts. Because we have large 10,648 thousand m³sub total volume forest holdings in the north, we of which: want to know even more about what other assets our forests 50% 45% 5% Pulpwood and Sawlogs Biofuel contain in the short and long term woodchips and how we can pair this knowledge with the needs of our customers. 1) Figure for 2019. Anette Waara, Head of Market Area North 30 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 CUSTOM E R OPE RATIONS High quality pulpwood EVA KARLSSON BERG Pulpwood consists of parts of the tree that cannot be The thing that stands out and that I used by the sawmills due to dimension, quality or tree think is worth mentioning in respect of Market Area South, is that we species, and is produced in both thinning and ﬁnal fellhave established an export business with ing. We offer pulpwood from both our own forests and customers in both Finland and Germany. The acquired through purchases from other forest owners reason and starting point for this was the and import. The offering is also supplemented with sawstorm Alfrida, which brought down large volmill chips from our own sawmill customers. We have umes in eastern Uppland in early January around 20 pulpwood customers in Sweden. Our custom2019. We needed to ﬁnd market outlets ers manufacture paper pulp, paper and board that are because local customers were unable to exported or used in Sweden. The exported paper pulp is accept all the timber. In addition to sawlogs to used for packaging and printing paper. The pulp is also Finland and Germany, larger quantities of used in hygiene products such as nappies, household pulpwood have also been delivered by boat to paper and toilet paper. Pulpwood from Swedish forests customers along the Norrland coast, and in has qualities that make it particularly good for packagtotal we have shipped out over 120,000 cubic ing with high requirements, such as cartons for milk and metres of sawlogs from the port of Harg in juice. Sveaskog's strength is its long experience of workUppland. This corresponds to around 30 fully ing with pulpwood customers and the focus in recent loaded boats. As a result of establishing new business contacts, we have also found a maryears on developing goods logistics together with cusket abroad for timber damaged by the spruce tomers. Sveaskog also has the advantage of being able bark beetle, which we deliver by boat from the to offer a wide range of fresh pulpwood and sawmill port of Köping in Mälaren. The forest is chips. increasingly often affected by different types of damage and this results in timber in such large volumes or of qualities that our customPerformance in 2019 ers in Sweden are not able to receive. In order Global demand and deliveries of paper pulp are increasto increase the spread of risk, the importance ing. The price of market pulp (NBSK) fell by over 30% of having established customer contacts outduring the year, however. Paper and cardboard prices side Sweden has increased and we took a also continued to weaken during the year. Deliveries of major step forward in this regard in 2019. pulpwood and wood chips in 2019 amounted to 5,333 thousand m³sub (5,691). Eva Karlsson Berg, Head of Market Area South Biofuel replaces fossil fuels Sveaskog's biofuel comprises branches and tree tops. Biofuel is good from an environmental point of view because the amount of carbon dioxide emitted during combustion is the same as the amount absorbed by the trees while growing, so no net supply of carbon dioxide Performance in 2019 takes place, as is the case in the combustion of fuels The biofuel market was affected by a number based on fossil raw materials. Biofuel harvesting is a natof changes during the year. New sorting rules ural part of sustainable forestry and is carried out taking for pulpwood have resulted in a reclassiﬁcainto consideration environmental and cultural factors, tion of energy wood, which is now being used partly on the basis of FSC® certiﬁcation. Due to expenin the pulp and paper industry instead. Imports of waste wood and waste fuels have also been sive transport costs, the biofuel market is regional and limited by increased domestic consumption in local, and Sveaskog's customers comprise power and the countries that export to Sweden. The end heating plants, as well as the energy-producing forest result is that both demand for and prices of bioindustry in Sweden. Sveaskog has around 50 customfuels have increased. Deliveries biofuel in 2019 ers, mainly heating plants, combined heating and power amounted to 571 thousand m³sub (527). plants and paper and pulp mills. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 31 CUSTOM E R OPE RATIONS Svenska Skogsplantor PETER MELIN Svenska Skogsplantor offers regeneration services: planting, ground preparation, forest seed, processed The boom in forestry plants, protective treatments and growth controls. The resulted in increased growth and quality of regeneration is critical in order to sales volumes, and thus a meet increasing demand for raw material. The key to historically good result for Svenska increased supply lies in processed seed material, proSkogsplantor in 2019. Demand for cessed plants and well-adapted cultivation techniques. plants treated with Conniﬂex is Much has happened in the past year due to rapid pace increased, as did processed plant of automation in production. In 2019, Svenska Skogmaterial. Economic activity and the splantor launched major investments and environmental very good year for cones meant initiatives, including the transition from oil to biofuel in its that the seed department also greenhouses, and this work will be completed in 2020. reported a good result. In 2019, we Interesting projects that were started and which will signed a couple of new, major supcontinue in 2020 include the development of the plantply agreements, giving us the ing machine Plantma X, a new distribution collaboration opportunity to take responsibility with a logistics company. for the majority of the regeneration work. This, in turn, has led us to strengthening the organisation on the marketing side, and we are now Performance in 2019 equipped to be able to take the Sales from sales of forest plants increased and amountnext step in developing our forest ed to SEK 410 million (318) in 2019). Operating proﬁts management services. from continuing operations also increased and amounted to SEK 33 million (4). Peter Melin, Head of Proﬁt Area South, Svenska Skogsplantor 32 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 CUSTOM E R OPE RATIONS Continuing strong interest in hunting on Sveaskog's land Thanks to our large holdings of land, Sveaskog sells Ola Söderdahl, Head of Commercial Communication at hunting and ﬁshing rights. This makes forests available Sveaskog. for both recreation and economic activities, including Sveaskog also owns large quantities of ﬁshing nature tourism companies. But other private players in waters, which are made available to the public and tourthe energy and telecom industry also use Sveaskog's ists through ﬁshing licences. Sveaskog's most popular land for power lines, power stations and telecommunicaﬁshing spot is Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske salmon ﬁshery, tions masts. which is an important part of the local economy. Every At the end of 2019, there were 7,404 leases (7,550) year, ﬁshermen from all over the world are attracted to and other rights of use on Sveaskog's land. The majorMörrum for its famous salmon and sea trout ﬁshing. In ity comprised hunting and ﬁshing concessions and the total, the facility receives around 250,000 visitors annunumber of hunting concessions totalled 3,130 (3,102). ally. The year 2019 was recognised as the Year of the In total, about 25,000 hunters hunt on Sveaskog's land. Salmon as an international initiative to provide inforSveaskog also has an ambition to develop hunting in mation about and increase interest in measures and Sweden. This is being implemented through measures research into the long-term sustainable use of salmon such as the popular short-term hunt and through the habitats worldwide. In connection with this, Mörrums project The ﬁrst hunting team . This is a complement Kronolaxﬁske, in cooperation with the Swedish Marito the Hunter's exam and involves Sveaskog forming a time and Water Authority, implemented a project aimed hunting team on our own land. The hunting team offers at increasing the knowledge of children and young peoplaces to new hunters, especially young people, who ple and conducted outdoor lessons at the Mörrum Rivhave no natural connection to any other hunting team. er for students from Norrevång School in Karlshamn The hunt is carried out with experienced hunt leaders municipality. and focuses on practical implementation, how to utilise We already have cooperation in place with Blekinge the felled animal and ethics in hunting. Folk High School’s ﬁshing conservation pathway, which Sveaskog wants this initiative to give more new huntmeans that we engage with students in a broad age ers an opportunity to join a hunting team and start huntrange, from middle school up to adulthood, said Idaing, while simultaneously contributing to the creation Maria Rigoll, Site Manager at Mörrums Kronolaxﬁske. of a responsible and well-trained body of hunters, said A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 33 E M PLOYE ES EMPLOYEES Active employeeship, working environment and inclusion in focus In 2019, Sveaskog focused on active employeeship. This took the form of an employeeship training course, Active employeeship in Sveaskog , that every manager implemented together with their employees. Working environment is an important focus area for Sveaskog and we are continuously working on introducing improvements in terms of a systematic approach and the quality of measures taken. Sveaskog takes an active and systematic approach to its work on equality, diversity and inclusion and in the year just ended this resulted in measures such as a training course for contractors. D uring the year, work continued on the employperformance appraisals and salary discussions, leadeeship and leadership principles We want to ership programmes and in connection with recruitdo right by each other . All employees particment and feedback. ipated in training in active employeeship. This work will continue with new training modules every quarter Occupational safety and health issues in focus over the next few years. This is a way of strengthOccupational safety and health issues are high priorening Sveaskog's culture and the way employees ities on the company's agenda. Working environment approach each other. The basic idea is that through is also an increasingly important parameter when it our actions and communication, all employees comes to being an attractive employer. together contribute to Sveaskog achieving its goals. Sickness absence increased from 2.5% in 2015 to By taking responsibility for the working group con3.0% in 2019. This compares with the public sector, stantly working a little smarter, I can contribute to where absenteeism was around 2.6% in 2018, which the goals being achieved. It is as employees that we is slightly below the level for Sveaskog. In Sveaskog, create relationships, ensure that we have a worksickness absence has increased most among women. ing environment where we do right by each other, Sveaskog is taking active measures to increase improve and develop the business through our comreporting of incidents and work injuries. The number of mitment, our ability to act and our innovative thinking, reported occupational injuries among the company’s both in our own workplace, where we spend most of own employees increased from 3.5/1,000 man-years our time, and in Sveaskog as a company. in 2015 to 9.1/1,000 man-years in 2019. The increase In 2019, training for managers to put Sveaskog's in the number of accidents is, of course, a serious leadership principles into practice also continued, givmatter. However, an analysis has been carried out ing participants an opportunity to practise the princiwhich shows that the increase is primarily due to an ples with the goal of becoming more conﬁdent role increase in reporting of accidents that occur, and not models and leaders. The principles are also used in an increase in the number of accidents. Sickness absence 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sickness absence, total, % 2.5 2.7 3.1 3.0 3.0 Sickness absence women, % 3.4 3.2 4.2 4.7 5.1 Sickness absence men, % 2.2 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.3 Long-term sickness absence, % of total sickness absence 34.5 45.6 50 47.5 47.4 Long-term healthy, %1 36.1 35.2 33 32.9 32.6 Reported occupational injuries2/1,000 man-years 3.5 5.9 8.3 11.9 9.1 Total days absent (working days)due to occupational injuries3 14 41 116 245 98 Sickness absence due to occupational injuries, % 0.008 0.02 0.07 0.15 0.06 1) Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence in the last two years. Employees of SIA Sveaskog Baltfor are not included. 2) Occupational injuries: accidents, travel accidents, occupational diseases which at the time of reporting are expected to lead to absence. Minor injuries at ﬁrst aid level are also included. Contractors' occupational injuries are not included in these ﬁgures. Occupational injuries are recorded in the SKIA tool. SKIA is the forest industry's information system on working environment provided to the industry by AFA insurance. Any occupational injuries in Baltfor are not recorded in SKIA and are therefore not included in the calculation. However, the average number of employees includes employees in Baltfor. Accidents by region are not reported, but follow-up takes place in the local safety committees in each market area. There were no fatal accidents during the year. 3) All days of absence on planned working days commencing two days after accident. Employees of Baltfor are not included. 34 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 E M PLOYE ES Sveaskog is continuing to take active measures to increase use of the IA app, which employees themselves can use to report accidents, incidents and hazards. Through the app the company will receive more hazard reports, which could lead to preventive measures. The most common incidents are slips and trips in the ﬁeld and incidents linked to driving. In 2019, the focus on occupational safety and health training continued as part of efforts to strengthen competence in the ﬁeld of occupational safety and health, especially with regard to stress and how best to handle a high workload. Employee survey an important tool In 2019, Sveaskog conducted its employee survey, which is carried out every two years. The survey had a high response rate, with as many as 90% of employees participating. The leadership is strong and employees remain proud of working at Sveaskog. One development area is the need to continue to take measures to reduce stress and allow time for recovery. In their work on processing the results of part of the Talent Programme. The Talent Programme the survey, the managers review their unit and leadlasts a year and forms part of skills provision, which ership reports with their employees and also work involves identifying, developing and retaining good together with employees to identify strengths and employees who make a particularly effective contridevelopment areas that will require further measures. bution to the company's competitiveness and sucEach manager informs their line manager of the work cess. The Mitt Liv programme has also implementcarried out, and the line manager, in turn, compiles ed workshops and training in prejudice, norms and the results and reports feedback to the CEO in coninclusion for the Group management. nection with business follow-up meetings. In the autumn, Sveaskog launched an online trainSveaskog takes various different approaches to ing course in gender equality, diversity and inclusion governance of occupational safety and health and as an offering to its contractors. The training is aimed personnel issues. The basis for governance is the at ensuring that the knowledge acquired can be used Code of Conduct adopted by the Board of Directors. in our efforts to build a more inclusive workplace. The company also has an equal treatment plan that Contractors rarely have access to the same resourchas been established by the CEO. Occupational safees as Sveaskog to engage with these issues and by ty and health measures are monitored in safety comoffering this training course, Sveaskog is able to supmittees at local and central level. port its contractors in their efforts to become more attractive as employers for more people. All employActive measures on gender equality, ees have completed the training and since 2016, it is diversity and inclusion included in the induction for new employees. In 2019, Sveaskog entered into partnership with Since 2013, the proportion of women who are perthe Mitt Liv (Chance of a Lifetime) mentorship promanently employed at Sveaskog has increased from gramme, which serves as a bridge between the 19% to 26% and in the market areas (forestry posiSwedish labour market and skilled workers with a tions) the proportion of women has more than doubled. foreign background. Twelve employees at Sveaskog The proportion of women among Sveaskog's managhave acted as mentors and in different ways supporters is 30%, and in the Group management the propored mentees with a foreign background and academic tion is 60%. The 2019 Employee Engagement Survey degree on their way to a job that corresponds to their showed that the proportion of women who believe that skills. Because it is important that Sveaskog's future women and men are treated equally in Sveaskog has leaders have diversity skills, the mentoring program is increased from 53% to 75% since 2013. Breakdown by gender, employees % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Women1 21 21.6 24 24.3 26.1 Men1 79 78.4 76 75.7 73.9 Women/men on the Board2 67/33 57/43 50/50 60/40 57/43 Women/men in Group management 45/55 40/60 40/60 44/56 64/36 Female managers 24 24 27 31 30 1) Average number of employees. 2) Elected by the Annual General Meeting. The years of birth of members of the Board and members of the Group management are shown in the presentations on pages 56-59. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 35 FI NANCIAL PE R FOR MANCE Record earnings for the second year running Sveaskog reports an operating proﬁt from continuing operations for the full year 2019 of MSEK 1,483 (1,422), which is an increase of four per cent on 2018. Proﬁt for the year was the second best reported by Sveaskog to date. THE IMPROVEMENT ON THE year before is to a impact while costs for forest management and harlarge extent due to higher prices for our products. vesting have increased. The introduction of IFRS 16 Prices were up by four per cent on the previous year, Leases with effect from 1 January 2019 had impactwhich improved our margins. Unlike 2018, which ed net ﬁnancial income by MSEK -1. 2018 annual saw a steady increase in prices, prices decreased ﬁgures have not been recalculated. Capital gains gradually in 2019. Total delivery volumes for the full from property sales were MSEK 185 (234). Share year were down, mainly for externally procured wood of proﬁt of associates totalled MSEK 26 (156), with raw material. The cost of forest management has the decrease mainly due to lower prices of sawn increased as a result of planned measures while fellwood products. The net change in the reported valing costs have risen as a result of increased comue of standing timber was MSEK 399 (1,697). The petition for resources combined with the harvesting high ﬁgure for the previous year is largely attributaof forest damaged by storms and the spruce bark ble to a changed discount rate in last year’s calculabeetle. tion. After change in value of forest assets, operating The dividend yield was 4.9 per cent (5.4). We thus proﬁt was MSEK 2,093 (3,509). Net ﬁnancial items exceeded our 4.5 target for the third year in a row. were MSEK -130 (-143). Proﬁt before tax decreased to MSEK 1,963 (3,366). Tax for the year was MSEK Net sales -405 (195). The relatively low tax expense in 2018 is Net sales, which comprise both deliveries from our due to a reduction in the corporate tax rate following own forest and externally acquired wood raw matea decision by the Swedish Parliament in June 2018, rials, increased by three per cent to MSEK 7,209 which had a positive impact of MSEK 505 on the (6,971). Prices increased by four per cent on avertax expense for 2018. Proﬁt for the previous year’s age, while total delivery volumes were down by three decreased by 51 per cent to MSEK 1,558 (3,171). per cent compared with the same period last year. The decrease is largely due to a smaller increase in Revenue from sales of seedlings and concessions the value of standing timber and last year's changed has increased. Sales of wood raw materials totalled tax rules. The effects were of a non-recurring nature 10.6 (11.0) million cubic metres (m³sub). and had no impact on cash ﬂow. Earnings Cash ﬂow, investments and ﬁnancial position Operating proﬁt from continuing operations Cash ﬂow from operating activities for the year was increased by four per cent to MSEK 1,483 (1,422). MSEK 1,108 (921). Investments in non-current Higher prices have to some extent been counteractassets, mainly forest properties and forest machines, ed by lower delivery volumes. Increased revenue from totalled MSEK 445 (237) while investments in sales of seedlings and concessions had a positive shares were MSEK 5 (1). Sales of non-current Total delivery volume Net sales thousand m3sub MSEK 12,000 8000 10,648 7,209 10,000 6000 8,000 6,000 4000 4,000 2,000 2,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The supply of wood raw materials was good during the Net sales, which comprise both deliveries from our period and stocks of timber and pulpwood in the conown forest and externally acquired wood raw suming industry were high until the end of the year, materials, increased by three per cent to MSEK when they declined somewhat. As a result of spruce 7,209 (6,971). bark beetle infestations, mainly in the southern half of the country, the supply of spruce sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel has increased, while flows of pine products are expected to be adversely affected. 36 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 FI NANCIAL PE R FOR MANCE Condensed income statement Change in operating proﬁt from continuing operations MSEK 2019 2018 Net sales 7,209 6,971 MSEK Operating proﬁt from continuing operations 1,483 1,422 2018 1,422 Capital gains on property sales 185 234 Price, own wood raw materials 127 Share of proﬁt/loss of associates 26 156 Volume and change in inventories, own wood Operating proﬁt before change raw materials -24 1,694 1,812 in value of forest assets Unit cost harvesting -24 Change in value of forest assets 399 1,697 Forest management and nature conservation -39 Operating proﬁt 2,093 3,509 Svenska Skogsplantor 33 Net ﬁnancial income/expense -130 -143 Earnings from externally procured Proﬁt before tax 1,963 3,366 wood raw materials 5 Tax –405 -195 Other property transactions1 -26 Proﬁt for the year 1,558 3,171 Other 9 2019 1,483 Condensed cash ﬂow statement 1) Other property transactions relate to a combination of: MSEK 2019 2018 All future concessions 13 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 985 1,093 before changes in working capital Sale of non-forest land -39 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 1,108 921 Other property transactions -26 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 16 334 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -857 -2,089 Change in net sales Cash ﬂow for the year 267 -834 MSEK Full year 2018 2018 6,971 Price, wood raw materials 283 Delivery volume, wood raw materials –103 Concessions, etc. 58 assets, mainly forest properties, were MSEK 407 2019 7,209 (516). The Group received dividends of MSEK 60 (56), of which MSEK 57 (29) from Setra Group, MSEK 0 (25) from SunPine AB and MSEK 3 (2) from ShoreLink AB. Sveaskog’s net interest-bearing debt at 31 December was MSEK 7,149 (7,014). Net interest-bearing debt at 31 December 2019 includes MSEK 124 (0) in lease liabilities in accordance with IFRS 16. At the end of the period, the loan portfolio consisted mainly of loans issued under Sveaskog’s MTN (Medium Term Note) programme and a Swedish commercial paper programme. The loan volume under the Swedish commercial paper programme Operating proﬁt from continuing operations Net debt/equity ratio MSEK multiple 1,483 1,500 0.6 0.5 1,200 Target 0.3–0.6 0.4 900 0.30 0.3 600 0.2 300 0.1 0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit from continuing operations increased The target was established by the 2014 Annual General by four per cent to MSEK 1,483 (1,422). Higher timber Meeting. The target is for the net debt/equity ratio to be in prices have to some extent been counteracted by lower the range 0.3-0.6. This metric indicates the amount of net delivery volumes. interest-bearing liabilities in the company in relation to equity. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 37 FI NANCIAL PE R FOR MANCE was MSEK 1,925 (2,210), which is reﬁnanced on SunPine AB an ongoing basis. The outstanding volume under Sveaskog owns 25.1 per cent of the shares of the the MTN programme at 31 December was MSEK bioreﬁnery SunPine AB. The share of the associ4,990 (4,390), of which MSEK 3,100 (2,000) refers ate company’s proﬁt and loss is recognised in proﬁt to green bonds. The lowest average ﬁxed interest or loss in the associate. Net sales for the year were period during the year was 35 months (34). The net MSEK 1,436 (1,458). The operating proﬁt was debt/equity ratio was 0.30 (0.30). The interest covMSEK 104 (225). The reduced proﬁt is due to lower erage ratio was 11.6 (11.0) and the gross borrowing production coupled with a temporary slackening in cost was 1.39 per cent (1.34). demand. Sveaskog’s share of the company’s proﬁt decreased by 56 per cent to MSEK 20 (45). Setra Group AB Sveaskog owns 50 percent of the shares in the ShoreLink AB wood products company Setra Group AB, which is Sveaskog owns 24.1 per cent of the shares of the classiﬁed as an associated company. The share of logistics and transport ﬁrm ShoreLink AB, which the associate company’s proﬁt and loss is recoghas been classiﬁed as an associate since the fourth nised in proﬁt or loss in the associate. Net sales for quarter of 2019. The share of the associate comthe year were MSEK 4,264 (4,480). The operating pany’s proﬁt and loss is recognised in proﬁt or loss proﬁt was MSEK 8 (310). The decreased proﬁt is in the associate. Net sales for January – August primarily an effect of lower selling prices. Sveaskog’s amounted to MSEK 215 (MSEK 307 for the full year share of the company’s proﬁt or loss adjusted for 2018). The operating proﬁt was MSEK 30 (MSEK intercompany proﬁts decreased by MSEK 0 (106). 28 for the full year 2018). Sveaskog’s share of the Sveaskog’s share of Setra Group’s other comprecompany’s proﬁt was MSEK 6 (5). hensive income was MSEK -6 (18). SunCarbon Sveaskog owns 33% of SunCarbon AB, which has developed a technology for producing lignin oil from pulp mill black liquor. Lignin is a renewable waste product from cellulose production at pulp mills that can replace products based on fossil raw materials. For example, it can be used in the production of renewable diesel and petrol. Dividend yield Assets, equity and liabilities % SEK billion Cash and cash equivalents Other liabilities 6 40 Other assets 5 35 5.4 Target 4.5 Liabilities 30 4 25 Forest land 3 20 and standing timber 2 15 10 Equity 1 5 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Assets Equity and liabilities The target was established by the 2014 Annual General Operating capital Meeting. The dividend yield is to average a minimum of 4.5% per year. The dividend yield shows the return on operating Most of the assets consist of standing timber, which is capital, excluding capital gains on property sales and changes valued according to International Financial Reporting in forest value. Standards, IFRS. 38 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 CONTRACTORS New contractor strategy secures future operations Sveaskog has adopted a new contractor strategy. The aim is for this to create the conditions necessary for a viable and sustainable contractor market in which Sveaskog is the contractors' ﬁrst choice of client. A ccess to contractors and their performance example, after consultation we will take over the risk are important for Sveaskog and our ability of possible damage due to ﬁre, and we have introto achieve established productivity, cost and duced downtime compensation for longer producquality targets. The majority of Sveaskog's felling tion stops due to increased ﬁre risk,” said Mattias and forest management assignments are currently Forsberg, adding: carried out by around 300 forest contractors. In fell“We have also found that the introduction of ing, contractors account for around 75% of the work young and relatively untested drivers is associated and in forest management for almost 100%. with large business risk for contractors. We have “We have seen an unfortunate development in the therefore introduced recruitment support that covers industry in recent years, which manifests itself in, part of the production loss that normally occurs. In Mattias Forsberg, Production Manager, among other things, difﬁculties in recruiting machine this way, we want to revitalise our group of contracMarket Area South operators and contractors who no longer want to tors and enable contractors to have the conﬁdence invest. Sveaskog takes these challenges very serito hire staff and develop their business. ously. We have therefore developed a contractor The development of activities in several other strategy that has resulted in a number of measimportant areas has gradually begun. For example, ures,” said Mattias Forsberg, Production Manager in we have launched a training course in gender equalSveaskog's Market Area South. ity, diversity and inclusion that is offered to our con“The goal is to offer our contractors the best contractors through the Skötselskolan online training ditions on the market, so that Sveaskog becomes tool and which is intended to strengthen their, and the contractors' ﬁrst-choice professional client. ultimately the industry's, attractiveness as employers. Among other things, we have adjusted the distriThe forest should be an industry where everyone bution of risk between us and contractors so that can thrive and grow, and proﬁtable contractors are a a larger part of the external risks, such as extreme prerequisite for Sveaskog to be a successful compaweather conditions, are managed by Sveaskog. For ny – now and in the future.” A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 39 OTH E R B USI N ESS ACTIVITI ES Green technology based on the forest. Linnéa Kollberg at Suncarbon, which has developed a technology for producing lignin oil from pulp mill black liquor. Innovation and development S veaskog undertakes active innovation efforts and environmental impact in the forest are therefore as part of its objective to develop the compaimportant for the entire industry. Sveaskog's develny's operations. The aim of these efforts is to opment of a new tracked forestry tractor that is now increase proﬁtability and value, minimise our environin a pilot phase is an example of these efforts. It is mental impact and create value for both customers also important to develop our employees' working and wider society. Not least, innovation efforts involve environment; crane tip control enables operators to using as much as possible of the wood raw materiuse a joystick to determine the direction of moveal, optimising resource utilisation and value. Another ment of the crane tip, which reduces the operator's aspect of this work is to take advantage of the possiworkload. Sveaskog's new app Arboreal means it bilities offered by the forest in the transition towards is now possible to measure the height of trees in a a fossil-free society, for example, through new opporsimple and convenient way using a phone camera. tunities for using residues from the pulp industry. Sveaskog's innovation efforts mainly take the form of projects, implemented in collaboration with othForest management – er stakeholders in academia, institutions and indusfrom seed to machine try, and often result in new investments in forestry, machinery, digital technology or industrial processes Svenska Skogsplantor is taking active measures to and products. By virtue of its size and resources, but boost growth and reduce chemical use and envialso because of its employees' skills, Sveaskog is an ronmental impact in its forest regeneration work. important partner in R&D and therefore participates The measures include the development of improved in many research and innovation forums in Sweden, plant material through new solutions for fertilising where the forest performs an important function. plants with arginine, which is long-acting and therefore causes much less nitrogen leakage to soil and waterways. Svenska Skogsplantor has developed and Forest production and launched Multipro och Conniﬂex, which offer chemworking environment ical-free protection against spruce bark beetles and have been a great success both commercially and in Demand for forest raw materials is increasing and terms of environmental beneﬁt. Svenska Skogsplanwe need to increase both growth and productivitor is currently carrying out operational testing of an ty in the forest. Efforts to develop forest machines automated planting machine, which, if everything that can increase productivity and reduce climate goes to plan, will enter commercial use in 2020. 40 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 OTH E R B USI N ESS ACTIVITI ES Forest management also includes various forms of damage control; not least the onward march of the spruce bark beetle caused great damage to forestry in 2019. Digitisation offers new solutions involving the use of AI, satellite imagery and advanced algorithms to produce detailed maps which visualise the advance of spruce bark beetles through the forest. The spread of the spruce bark beetle can now be followed by satellite thanks to the power of innovation of Sveaskog's employees. One area of increased interest is the design of alternative silviculture methods and adaptation of forestry to speciﬁc environments and conditions. Sveaskog provides various experimental parks for these purposes; within our Ecoparks, too, various pilot projects are underway. An example of cross-industry cooperation is the collaboration between Sveaskog and Volvo Trucks. Sveaskog and Volvo Trucks are conducting tests aimed at enaInnovation creates new bling transportation of up to 90 tonnes of sawlogs from forest to cargo terminal. Increasing the load per vehicle improves efficiency, cuts costs and reduces carbon valuable products dioxide emissions by up to 20 per cent. Our ambition is to use every ﬁbre of every tree we fell to facilitate continued sustainable forestry in tions. One example of this is a project which, based the future and an internationally competitive forest on digitised stand and felling information, enables us industry that contributes to a bio-based economy. In to adapt the sawlogs output to a sawmill's speciﬁc order to create new uses for wood, Sveaskog conproduct requirements in order to increase the benecentrates its efforts on three areas: wood products, ﬁt to the sawmill in terms of both volume and value. green fuels and chemicals, as well as wood-based We have completed a comprehensive reorganisamaterials from forest and industrial residues. Our tion of our IT support in the wood chain, developed work in these areas encompasses research and new technical solutions and changed our way of workdevelopment as well as the application of existing ing for more efﬁcient and detailed information ﬂow. technologies and knowledge, albeit in new forms. We also devote a great deal of effort to ﬁnding Our work in these areas is largely based on collabonew and more valuable uses for forest and industriration with academia, institutions and companies and al residues: branches and tree tops from the forest customers, and takes the form of projects in which and lignin and pine oil from the pulp industry's black we develop concepts and solutions, before taking the liquor, which offer an alternative to fossil fuel in pronext step of introducing these solutions in operacesses and products. In the past, forest owners used manual altimeters with angle gauges and tape measures or expensive laser meters to measure the height of trees. But Arboreal's smart innovation Arboreal – Tree Height , which is based on the same technology as Pokemon Go, makes this task both faster, easier and more accurate. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 41 Risk Analysis and Corporate Governance R ISK Risk and sensitivity analysis An important aspect of creating long-term value is to understand and be able to manage the risks in the business. The entire company is included in the risk inventory that forms part of annual business planning. Signiﬁcant risks are documented in the system for business monitoring and planning. S veaskog's deliveries from its own hunting, ﬁshing, nature tourism and wind functions. The company's signiﬁcant risks forests are high and even. This power. These efforts result in a broader are identiﬁed, reported and aggregated in means that Sveaskog's direct ﬁnanrevenue base, but may also involve risks, the company's business monitoring and cial risks are limited. However, there are such as conﬂicts of interest or undesiraplanning system. other risks that Sveaskog systematically ble impact on our lands. Reporting includes a description of takes stock of. Sveaskog is exposed to the risk and management and who is ﬁnancial, legal, market, operational, pubResponsibility responsible. Measurement of risk is lic opinion and social risks. Forests are Sveaskog's Board of Directors is responalso exposed to biological risks, as well as sible for ensuring that the company manweather and climate risks. ages risks correctly and that established Identification, review and measurement of risks The large amount of felling caused by principles for ﬁnancial reporting and interstorm damage in recent years has highnal control are complied with. The CEO lighted the weather and climate risks. has overall operational responsibility and Prioritisation of measures However, Sveaskog's forest holdings are has delegated management of the risk spread across the country, which evens management process to the CFO. Operout weather and biological risks. The forational responsibility lies with the proﬁt Reporting/registration ests are also insured against major addicentres and functions and is followed up of risks and measures tional costs. at management level. Sveaskog is working on developing new products and businesses such as Risk management process in Sveaskog Implement, follow up actions biofuels and ecosystem services. The Risk management is an integral part of company is also increasing revenue from the company’s annual business planthe forest by granting concessions for ning and includes both proﬁt centres and Management of signiﬁcant risks Biological risks A. Spruce bark beetle D. New pests take hold Pest insect which has grown in number in the north of For example, if the nun moth or mountain pine beetle Sweden and the control area has been expanded. In or other serious pests take hold in the country, this southern Sweden, spruce bark beetle attacks are could result in great destruction. substantial after hot and dry summers. D Management: Management: • Monitoring. • Rapid processing of storm-felled timber and Impact standing trees with fresh infestations. A E. Game grazing damage E B. Shortage of spruce seed Game which graze on trees and plants reduce forest growth. Game grazing damage is a fact and the The problems with spruce cone rust continue. annual cost of damage on Sveaskog's land amounts B Flowering has been absent for several years, but 2019 to hundreds of millions of Swedish krona. An was a good year for flowering. A shortage of proincrease of 10% would have a large impact on cessed seed in Norrland can lead to growth losses. operating profit. C Management: Management: • Collection of stand seed and/or external purchases. • Hunting, measures to increase access to feed, Research and development. Probability increased knowledge of game populations. C. Root rot The value of standing timber decreases, trees die. Management: • Prevent infestation by treating stumps against fungal spores during felling. 44 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 R ISK made from a ﬁve-year perspective and aims to describe the impact that the Identiﬁcation of signiﬁcant risks described risk may have on the company's strategic objectives according to the current business plan. Probability is 5 assessed on a ﬁve-point scale where the lowest level (1) means that it is unlikely to occur during the period and the highest level (5) means that it is expected to occur during the period. 4 Operational risks Impact is assessed on a ﬁve-point Impact if risk occurs scale where the lowest level (1) means that it will have a negligible negative Financial impact and the highest level (5) means Public Market risks 3 risks that it will have a very large negative opinion risks Biological Social risks impact on Sveaskog's goal attainment. risks The outcome of this assessment gives the total risk score illustrated in the risk Weather, matrix above and on the next few pages. 2 climate & The identiﬁed risks are measured and environmental risks prioritised on the basis of the overall risk score. The risk manager is responsible for identifying improvement meas1 ures and assessing these on the basis of effect and how time-consuming and cost-intensive the measure is. These are 1 2 3 4 5 implemented according to prioritisation and availability of resources. Following Probability of risk being realised implementation of such measures, an evaluation is carried out to assess if the measure was sufﬁcient to manage the intended risk. This reports how Sveaskog manages its most signiﬁcant risks. Financial risks A. Financial risk C. Credit risk Assets are partly financed through external loans. That a counterparty is unable to fulfil its obligations. A This entails a risk if a large borrowing requirement A decline in economic activity involves an increased arises in a strained credit market situation. risk of credit losses. Management: Management: • A well diversified loan portfolio of lenders and • The finance policy regulates maximum credit investors with good flexibility and competitive pricexposure in the investment portfolio. With regard to Impact ing as well as stable cash flows. commercial credit exposure, with the exception of a few major customers, customers are covered by B credit insurance. B. Interest rate risk • Regular meetings of the Credit Committee and The risk that Sveaskog will be exposed to an information to the Board of Directors. C unfavourable interest rate situation with a large loan portfolio. Management: • Sveaskog's policy is that the average fixed-interest term of the loan portfolio should be 12-48 months. Probability A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 45 R ISK Management of signiﬁcant risks, cont. Operational and legal risks A. Loss of FSC®certification D. Nature conservation and high conservation value forests A Reduced quality of silviculture and al consideration for nature measures, together with shortcomings in Sveaskog has chosen to set aside 20% of its prosocial responsibility measures and follow-up, may ductive forest land as nature conservation areas. Half cause Sveaskog to lose FSC® certification, which of this area (10%) is set aside for nature conservation B would have a significant impact on the wood forests. Excessive set-aside of nature conservation C business. forests leads to a reduced supply of wood raw mateImpact rial to industry and reduced results for Sveaskog. Management: • Documented procedures and work processes in all Management: D E parts of the business. • Continuous measurement to ensure that the 10% • Internal and external audits and training for set aside are areas with the highest conservation continuous improvement efforts values. • Procedures to ensure that forests with lower conservation values remain as productive forest. B. Impact on forestry of political decisions E. Information security risks National and EU directives (e.g. directives on renewable resources and the climate impact of land Administrative/organisational information Probability use), interpretations from authorities and their impact security risks: on forestry. • Inadequate procedures, incorrect documentation and incorrect division of responsibilities when Management: processing Sveaskog's information. • Follow, participate in and influence the debate. • Leaks, destruction or unauthorised manipulation of • Monitor the interpretations made. personal data. Management: C. Access to labour and contractors • Uniform and well thought-out procedures for correct processing of personal data in files and We are currently seeing a reduction in access to systems. labour and increased competition from the industry and other industries, which means that it has Technical/physical IT security risks: become increasingly difficult both to recruit our own • Interruptions, information leaks, hacking, virus staff and to hire contractors, mainly relating to felling, attacks, sabotage and IT-related blackmail. transport and ground preparation. Management: Management: • Introduction of an Information Security Management • Profiling of Sveaskog as an attractive employer. System, appointing information owners for the • Cooperation with training programmes. information in Sveaskog's system. • To promote a functioning supplier market with • Participation in information security activities. healthy competition. • Administrative, technical and physical levels of • Increased diversity and gender equality activities. security based on risk analysis. • Monitoring to detect and address information security incidents. • Information and training. Weather, climate and environmental risks A. Climate change C. Contaminated land Climate change can increase the risk of storms, Liability for contaminated land from any previous changes in precipitation, forest fires, deteriorating pollutants. driving conditions and changes in vegetation boundaries. Management: • Mapping, strategy and plan of action for manageManagement: ment of ongoing operations and any subsequent • Cleaning and thinning adapted to habitat. treatment. Impact • Specially adapted forestry methods in case of fire risk and hazardous conditions. B • Work involving processed seed and plant material. • Insurance. In 2005, storm Gudrun caused gross damage worth around MSEK 730. Based on today's insurance A cover, similar damage would affect operating profit B. Storm felling from continuing operations by around MSEK 246. A significant storm results in direct economic loss Sveaskog's insurance cover is described in more through reduced operating profit and reduced value detail in Note 26. C of forest assets. Cleaning up results in direct economic loss through reduced operating profit, Probability reduced value of forest assets, cleaning up puts a strain on the organisation, damage caused by spruce bark beetle. Management: • Silviculture measures that reduce the risks: thinning, planting, increased proportion of broad-leaved trees, final felling at economic maturity. • Good crisis organisation and logistics. Capacity to move felling resources to storm-felled area. • Insurance against damage. 46 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 R ISK Management of signiﬁcant risks, cont. Market risks A. Sawmill industry C. Energy sector Intermittent poor profitability results in sawmill cloIncreased competition from substitutes and low sures and credit losses for Sveaskog. Restructuring energy prices result in limited market outlets. Closure may result in fewer customers in the local area for of companies and customers in Sveaskog's traditionSveaskog's forest holdings. Changes in the internaal markets. A tional markets may affect demand for products from the pulp and paper industry. Management: • Be an efficient supplier with developed customImpact Management: er-oriented business concepts that achieve added B • Active customer selection and credit insurance. value and increased profitability for the parties. • Priority given to cooperation with customers who • Prioritise product development and innovation. have long-term survival and profitability potential. • Prioritise product development and innovation. A 10% change in the average price of wood raw material from our own forests impacts operating profit B. Pulp and paper industry from continuing operations by around MSEK 300. A few, dominant companies means a lack of compeA 10% change in average delivery volume from our C tition and few alternative business and marketing own forests impacts operating profit from continuing opportunities. Changes in the international markets operations by around MSEK 200. Probability may affect demand for products from the pulp and paper industry. Management: • Increase market and customer capital. • More efficient logistics and increased exports. Prioritise product development and innovation. Social risks A. Imported wood of undesirable origin C. Corruption Purchasing from other countries may involve risks Unclear guidelines and procedures lead to a risk of linked to illegal logging, corruption and labour law. bribery and corruption. Management: Management: • Sveaskog's Code of Conduct, as well as certifica• Continuous training and dialogue, Code of tion and clear guidelines for traceability and docuConduct, clear guidelines, internal control, possimentation of purchased raw material, which govImpact bility to report suspected violations anonymously. ern the company's actions and follow-up. C B B. Contractors Contractors who fail to fulfil commitments may conA stitute a risk linked to working environment, health, safety and labour law. Management: • Code of Conduct, guidelines for procurement of contractors, service declarations and follow-up Probability and control of compliance reduce risks. Public opinion risks A. Public opinion about the forest B. Reduced confidence Public opinion on the use of the forest which involves The brand and confidence in the company may be restrictions on forestry can affect profitability and the affected and thus customer relations and value of forest land. cooperation. Management: Management: • Active participation in the forest debate. • Code of Conduct, internal procedures, active Cooperation with other parties and players. information measures and continuous dialogue Impact Local presence and dialogue. with stakeholders. B A Probability A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 47 APPROPR IATION OF PROFITS Appropriation of proﬁts The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that the dividend for 2019 be MSEK 1,100 (1,100), corresponding to SEK 9.29 (9.29) per share. Proposed appropriation of proﬁts, SEK Group do not entail risks in addition to those that exist or can be Proﬁts available to the Annual General Meeting: assumed to exist in the industry or risks inherent in conducting business activities. The company's and the Group's dependence SEK on business cycles does not differ from that otherwise occurring Retained earnings 6,323,283,375 in the industry. The Board of Directors’ opinion is that after the Proﬁt for the year 2,363,835 proposed distribution of proﬁt, the company will have a sufﬁcient Total 6,325,647,210 restricted equity in relation to the size of the business. The Board of Directors has taken into account the company's The Board of Directors proposes that the proﬁt be distributed as follows: and the Group's consolidation needs through a comprehensive assessment of the company's and the Group's ﬁnancial position SEK and ability to meet their commitments over time. The compaDividend to shareholder 1,100,000,000 ny's ﬁnancial situation is disclosed in the Annual Report. Here Carried forward to the following year 5,225,647,210 it is disclosed that the Group's net debt/equity ratio is 0.30. Total 6,325,647,210 Sveaskog's adopted target for the net debt/equity ratio is 0.30.6. The Group's ﬁnancial position is therefore strong. The proposed dividend does not compromise the company's Board of Directors’ statement in accordance with the Swedish ability to make any necessary investments. The company has Companies Act Chapter18 Section 4 ﬁnancial resources to cope with unexpected events and tempoFollowing the Board's proposal for a dividend, the Board of rary variations in payment ﬂows to a reasonable extent. The comDirectors of Sveaskog AB (publ) hereby makes the following pany's ﬁnancial position does not give rise to any assessment statement. other than that the company is able to continue its operations and According to current ﬁnancial targets, the ordinary dividend that the company is expected to fulﬁl its obligations in the short over time shall correspond to 65–90% of the Group’s proﬁt and long term. after tax excluding non-cash adjustments in the value of own The Board of Directors has taken into account the position forests after tax. A dividend is paid provided that the capital of the company and the Group in other respects. The Board of structure target after the dividend falls within the target range Directors has therefore taken into account all known circumand taking into account implementation of the Group’s strategic stances that may be signiﬁcant for the company's ﬁnancial and investment requirements. position and which have not been taken into account within The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General the framework of the assessment of the company's consolidaMeeting that the total dividend for 2019 be SEK 1,100,000,000, tion needs and liquidity. Among the circumstances taken into corresponding to SEK 9.29 per share. The dividend, which comaccount by the Board of Directors can be noted such events prises 88% of the dividend base, is proposed to take the form of and circumstances as the company has disclosed in the Direca cash dividend. tors’ Report, including those relating to dates after the ﬁnancial Provided that the Annual General Meeting 2020 resolves in year 2019. accordance with the Board's proposal for appropriation of profWith reference to the above, the Board of Directors is of the its, SEK 5,225,647,210 will be carried forward to a new account. opinion that the dividend is justiﬁable in view of the demands Full coverage exists for the company's restricted equity after the that the nature, scope and risks of operations place on the size proposed distribution of proﬁts. of the company's and the Group's equity, as well as the consolThe nature and scope of the company’s operations are set idation needs, liquidity and position in general of the company out in the Articles of Association and the published Annuand the Group. al Report. The operations carried out in the company and the 48 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 COR PORATE GOVE R NANCE R E PORT Corporate Governance Report Sveaskog is a limited company owned by the Swedish state. Governance of Sveaskog is based on the Swedish Companies Act, the State Ownership Policy, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code), as well as other applicable Swedish and foreign laws and regulations. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared as part Nomination process of Sveaskog's application of the Code. The report has been The State ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned reviewed by the company’s auditors. companies set out a different nomination process than that proIn accordance with the Swedish government's state ownerscribed in the Code in respect of the Board of Directors and ship policy and guidelines for state-owned companies, Sveaskog auditors. Nomination of the Board is coordinated by the Governhas deviated from the Code in three instances: ment Ofﬁces of Sweden. The Government Ofﬁces of Sweden • Preparation of decision on nomination of the Board of also submit a proposal for the Chairman of the Board and chairDirectors and auditors, which means that Sveaskog has not man of the general meetings. Nominations of members of the appointed a Nomination Committee. Board are presented in the notice of the Annual General Meet• With regard to the independence of Board members in relaing and on Sveaskog's website. tion to the state as a major shareholder, this not reported The Government Ofﬁces of Sweden are also responsible for because the Code in this respect focuses on companies with the election of auditors and that a decision on this is taken at the a diverse ownership. Annual General Meeting. A proposal for election of auditors is • The date and location of the Annual General Meeting shall presented in the notice of the Annual General Meeting and on be stated on the company's website not later than in connecSveaskog's website. Auditors are appointed for a term of one year. tion with the interim report for the third quarter. Sveaskog has The practical work of procurement of auditors is handled by the chosen to comply with Nasdaq Stockholm's regulations for Board's Audit Committee together with the company and owner. issuers and therefore provides details of the scheduled date for the Annual General Meeting in the year-end report. Board of Directors The Board of Directors shall be responsible for the compaMission ny's organisation and administration of the company's affairs. According to the state's ownership policy, companies owned According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors by the state must take a long-term approach, be efﬁcient and shall consist of a minimum of ﬁve and a maximum of nine memproﬁtable and be given the capacity to develop. The companies bers. In addition, there are two employee representatives with should serve as role models in the area of sustainable business two deputies. The Articles of Association do not contain any and otherwise act in a manner that generates public conﬁdence. regulations on the appointment or dismissal of Board members. According to its Articles of Association, Sveaskog shall own The company's legal adviser is the secretary to the Board of and manage real and personal property and conduct forestry Directors. operations and forest industry as well as related activities. Its core business shall comprise forestry. Sveaskog shall also be Composition of the Board of Directors an independent operator without major interests of its own as In connection with the 2019 Annual General Meeting, members an end user of wood raw materials. The company may also conAnna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson and Thomas Hahn resigned. Eva duct related activities if these contribute to increased returns for Färnstrand, Sven Wird, Annika Nordin and Leif Ljungqvist were the company. According to a special parliamentary assignment, re-elected at the Annual General Meeting. Kerstin Lindberg the company shall contribute to strengthening private agriculGöransson, Marie Berglund and Johan Kuylenstierna were electture and forestry by selling land in sparsely populated areas to ed as new members, meaning that after the Annual General private individuals. Sale of land shall be carried out until 10% Meeting the Board comprises four women and three men. The of the land area owned by Sveaskog at the time of its foundaBoard also includes two employee representatives with two deption in 2002 has been divested. At year-end, 33,583 hectares uties. Eva Färnstrand was also re-elected as chairman. remained available for sale. Operations shall be conducted on a commercial basis and generate a market return. Work of the Board of Directors The work of the Board is governed by the Board’s formal work Annual General Meeting plan. The Chairman of the Board shall ensure that the work of the The Annual General Meeting is Sveaskog's highest deciBoard is conducted efﬁciently and that the Board fulﬁls its obligasion-making body. The Annual General Meeting of the Parent tions. According to the formal work plan, the Board shall normally Company Sveaskog AB (publ) took place on 24 April 2019 in hold eight meetings per year, in addition to the board meeting folStockholm. The 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held on lowing election in connection with the Annual General Meeting. 24 April. See page 121 for more information about the 2020 The formal work plan stipulates which issues are to be dealt with Annual General Meeting. at each meeting and which speciﬁc issues should be submitted to According to the State ownership policy and guidelines for the Board. According to the formal work plan, the Chairman shall, companies with state ownership and the Articles of Association, on behalf of the Board of Directors, consult with representatives Members of Parliament have the right to attend and ask quesof the owner on matters of crucial importance for Sveaskog. The tions at Sveaskog's general meetings. The meetings are also formal work plan also contains details of the Chairman's role on open to the public. the Board of Directors and on the division of roles and responsibilities between the Board of Directors and the CEO. The Board continuously evaluates the CEO's work, and also evaluates the A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 49 COR PORATE GOVE R NANCE R E PORT work of the Board on an annual basis. At least once a year, the Property Commiee work of the CEO shall be evaluated without any member of the Prepares issues relating to property acquisitions, management Group management being present. and disposals. The Property Committee consists of Sven Wird In 2019, the Board held eleven meetings. In addition to (Chairman), Annika Nordin, Johan Kuylenstierna and Sara Östh. addressing standing items on the agenda, the Board has focused on the issues of insect infestation and other damage to Audit Commiee forests, Sveaskog's nature conservation work, the relationship Responsibilities include preparing the Board's work on quality with the reindeer industry and other stakeholders, investments assurance of the company's ﬁnancial reporting, regular meetprimarily in plant operations and measurement of standing timings with the company's auditors in order to be informed of the ber. The Board of Directors has also decided on a number of direction, scope and results of audits and to discuss coordinaacquisitions and disposals of properties. tion between the external auditors and internal control activities The Board of Directors has recruited a new CEO, who took up and approach to the company's risks. The Audit Committee conthe post on 1 July 2019. sists of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson (Chairman), Leif Ljungqvist, Eva Färnstrand and Kenneth Andersson. Board commiees The Board committees prepares issues ahead of a decision by Principles for remuneration of the Board of Directors the Board. Guidelines for the work of the committees can be Fees to the Board are determined by the Annual General Meetfound in the Board's formal work plan. In addition, there are speing as are fees to members of the Board committees. In 2019, ciﬁc instructions for the Property and Audit Committees. The remuneration of the Board of Directors totalled SEK 1,504,999. issues dealt with by the committees are minuted and reported at The Board of Directors does not participate in any bonus or the next Board meeting. incentive programme. Employee representatives and the Board member employed by the Government Ofﬁces of Sweden do Remuneration Commiee not receive a fee. Prepares issues related to remuneration and terms of employment of senior executives. The Remuneration Committee consists of Corporate structure Eva Färnstrand (Chairman), Marie Berglund and Leif Ljungqvist. Sveaskog’s operations are organised in two geographical market areas and Svenska Skogsplantor. The division into market areas is based on forest holdings, customer structure and trade ﬂows. The market areas have customer, production and delivery Board meetings 2019 10 December • Reporting by the committees • Financial report 28 January • Budget • Reporting by the committees • Communication • Measurement of standing timber • Special review function • Reindeer industry • Investment in capacity expansion • Annual accounts 2018 • Decisions on property transactions • Audit report from the auditors • Insurance policy • Risk analysis • Financial policy • Technology development • Insect infestation and its market impact • Information security policy BER JANU CEM ARY DE R FE 8 March 25 October BE BR • Reporting by the committees • Reporting by the committees M • Financial report NO Y • Financial report and forecast VE UAR • Annual Report • Auditor’s report • Preparation for Annual General Meeting • Handling external input • Decisions on property disposals • Decisions on property transactions • Investment projects ER RCH • Interim report OCTOB MA • Risk analysis 24 April • Ordinary Board meeting and Board meeting following election after the 2019 Annual General Meeting • Reporting by the committees SEPTEM • Financial report 13 September IL • Interim report • Contractor strategy • Reporting by the committees APR • Financial report • Interim report BE • Tract bank tool R • Sveaskog’s shareholdings 14 May • Decisions on property transactions • Communication AU • Investments G U AY ST M 13 June JUL • Reporting by the committees Y JUN • Financial report 16 July • Logistics cooperation • Financial report • Forecast • Interim report • Business plan 50 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 COR PORATE GOVE R NANCE R E PORT responsibility for the wood raw material. Concessions (with the Responsibility for maintaining an effective control environexception of hunting concessions) and property transactions are ment and day-to-day work with risk management and internal handled centrally within the Legal Affairs and Property function. control relating to ﬁnancial reporting is delegated to the CEO. Operating activities are supported by group-wide functions. Managers at different levels of the company have correspondSveaskog also owns shares in companies where there is no ing responsibilities within their respective areas. consolidation relationship. The holding in the wood products The most signiﬁcant parts of the control environment relating company Setra Group AB (publ) is the largest holding, followed to ﬁnancial reporting are dealt with in the governing documents by Sunpine AB. concerning accounting and ﬁnancial reporting and in the ﬁnancial manual published on Sveaskog's employee intranet. CEO and Group Management Sveaskog's CEO is responsible for the ongoing management of Risk assessment and control structures the company in accordance with the Board's instructions. The The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the comCEO gives presentations at Board meetings. The CEO's responpany manages its risks correctly and that adopted policies for sibilities include ongoing business issues and contacts with the ﬁnancial reporting and internal control are complied with. Idencompany's Chairman and external stakeholders. The CEO also tiﬁed risks in connection with ﬁnancial reporting are loss or leads the work of the Group management. The Group managemisappropriation of assets, unlawful beneﬁt of another party at ment comprises six women and four men. The CEO's assistant the company's expense and other risks relating to material misis co-opted to the Group management. During the year, the statement in the ﬁnancial statements, for example, relating to company's CEO left the company and a new CEO took over the recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, income and post. During the spring, a new HR manager joined the company expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. but resigned shortly thereafter. A new HR manager was subseThese issues are prepared by the Audit Committee for conquently recruited and has taken up the post. The business area sideration by the Board. A number of items in the income statemanager for Svenska Skogsplantor has left his position and an ment and balance sheet have been identiﬁed where the risk acting manager has been appointed. of material misstatement is signiﬁcant. These risks are mainly attributable to measurement of standing timber, accruals and Systems for internal control and risk the IT systems that support the business. management in ﬁnancial reporting The Board's responsibility for internal control is governed by the Information and communication Swedish Companies Act and the Code. Internal control is intendThe company's information and communication channels are ed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of designed to promote completeness and accuracy of ﬁnanexternal ﬁnancial reporting in the form of ﬁnancial statements, cial reporting. For external communication there are guideinterim reports and annual reports. Control shall also include lines designed to ensure that the company meets the owner's external ﬁnancial reporting and that this is prepared in accordrequirement that reporting is carried out in accordance with ance with the legislation, applicable accounting standards and Nasdaq's regulations. other requirements for limited companies. Monitoring Framework for internal control Monitoring is regulated in the Board's formal work plan and the A description of how internal control is organised in relation to instructions to the CEO. ﬁnancial reporting is provided below. Special review function Control environment It is the Board's opinion that Sveaskog's signiﬁcant risks and The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for maintaining risk areas are covered by the risk management process applied an effective system for internal control and risk management. by the company. Responsibility for risk inventories and manageThe Board has appointed the Audit Committee to prepare matment of the risk management processes has been delegated ters related to risk assessment, internal control, ﬁnancial reportto the CFO unit by the CEO. The CFO unit is also responsible ing and audit. The Board's risk management has been given for a number of central controls combined with local follow-up. greater scope in recent years. However, operational responsibility rests with the market areas Mission According to the state's ownership policy, companies owned holdings to its customer structure through the purchase, by the state must take a long-term approach, be efﬁcient and exchange and sale of forest land. According to a parliamenproﬁtable and be given the capacity to develop. In order to tary decision, sales of land shall be carried out until 10% of promote long-term sustainable value growth in state owned the land area owned by Sveaskog at the time of its foundacompanies, sustainable business is integrated into corporate tion in 2002 has been divested. governance. This means that the companies should serve as Sales shall be conducted on market terms and aimed at role models in the area of sustainable business and otherwise strengthening private forestry. Because the aim is not to act in a manner that generates public conﬁdence. reduce Sveaskog's land holdings, the mission does not preAccording to its Articles of Association, Sveaskog shall own clude Sveaskog from simultaneously purchasing land. Total and manage real and personal property and conduct forestry area 19,889 ha (of which 12,148 productive forest land). operations and forest industry as well as related activities. Its In 2019, 19,889 ha of land were sold (18,681). A total of core business shall comprise forestry. Sveaskog shall also be 402,559 hectares, or 9.23%, have been sold in 2,284 transan independent operator without major interests of its own as actions since the land sales programme started. No reversals an end user of wood raw materials. were reported in the Land Sales Programme in 2019. As part of efforts to improve the efﬁciency of operations, The owner has a stated dividend policy and clear ﬁnancial Sveaskog must also strive to adapt the structure of forest targets for Sveaskog regarding yield and net debt/equity ratio. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 51 COR PORATE GOVE R NANCE R E PORT and other operating areas. The Board of Directors considers by a number of policies and guidelines which are available on that there is no need for a special review function in the compaSveaskog's intranet and website. ny. The CFO unit is headed by the Deputy CEO, who is also the Monitoring of sustainability work is performed on an ongoCFO, and comprises the ﬁnance function and IT function. ing basis both internally and externally. The Board of Directors issues the Sustainability Report and the Audit Committee does Audit prepares the work on the report. The task of the auditors is to examine, on behalf of shareholdCollaboration with local contractors and suppliers is important ers, the company's annual accounting and accounting records for Sveaskog’s development. The Code of Conduct, general susas well as the administration by the Board of Directors and the tainability requirements linked to the UN Global Compact and CEO. A limited assurance engagement is performed in respect detailed requirements for contractors govern the assessment of of the company’s Sustainability Report. The Board communicontractors. Follow-up is takes the form of self evaluation and cates with the auditors through the Audit Committee and also internal audits. Non-conformances are reported in the business through auditors being present at Board meetings at which management system. Follow-ups of framework agreements with issues ahead of the annual accounts and annual report are disexternal suppliers take place annually. cussed. At least once a year, the auditors meet with the Board The external audit consists of the auditors examining the of Directors without the CEO or any other member of the Group annual ﬁnancial statements and the Sustainability Report. In management being present. The auditors participated in nine of addition, an internal audit in accordance with ISO 14001 is carthe Audit Committee's 10 meetings. ried out of the integrated business management system. An Remuneration of auditors is described in Note 6. external audit of FSC®certiﬁcation is performed and regular surveys are conducted for customers, employees, contractors and Sustainable business suppliers and of the brand. Sveaskog takes an integrated approach to sustainability These provide the tools for creating an understanding of the throughout the organisation. Sveaskog's overall goals for susimpact of operations from a stakeholder perspective and offer tainable business are broken down into strategies and business support for monitoring of international frameworks such as objectives that are followed up regularly. The work is supported national environmental objectives and the 2030 Agenda. Board attendance and remuneration 2019 Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Remuneration, SEK Board Remuneration Property Audit Board of Meetings Committee Committee Committee Directors Committee Board members Eva Färnstrand 11/11 1/1 – 6/6 465,000 23,333 Marie Berglund 8/8 – – – 123,333 6,667 Johan Kuylenstierna 7/8 – 3/3 – 123,333 26,667 Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 6/8 – – 6/6 123,333 26,667 Leif Ljungqvist 11/11 1/1 – 8/10 – – Annika Nordin 11/11 – 5/5 – 183,333 40,000 Sven Wird 11/11 – 5/5 – 183,333 40,000 Anna Stina Nordmark Nilsson 3/3 – – 4/4 60,000 13,333 Thomas Hahn 3/3 – – 4/4 60,000 6,667 Employee representatives Sara Östh 10/11 – 5/5 – – – Kenneth Andersson 10/11 – – 9/10 – – Lars Djerf (deputy) 7/11 – – – – – Thomas Esbjörnsson (deputy) 7/11 – – – – – 52 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 COR PORATE GOVE R NANCE R E PORT Organisation and governance • Owner's guidelines • Ownership policy OWNER • General Meeting • Articles of Association BOARD OF DIRECTORS • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group organisation Committee • Audit Committee CEO • Operational governance (Goals and governance policies) GROUP MANAGEMENT • Risk management • Internal control LEGAL AFFAIRS HR AND PROPERTY • Reporting External COMMUNICATION FOREST MANAGEMENT audit • Roles, responsibilities and control systems FINANCE, IT AND PURCHASING BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION MARKET AREA NORTH MARKET AREA SOUTH SVENSKA SKOGSPLANTOR Values and Code of Conduct external, which means that the information is processed and Sveaskog's values must permeate the corporate culture and investigated by an external party. No reports were received via help all employees to adopt a common approach. the whistle-blower function in 2019. Sveaskog's values are: Under the guidance of lawyers and HR specialists, regular • Customer focus meetings are held in the different proﬁt areas where questions • Innovation concerning the Code of Conduct, guidelines for entertainment • Simplicity and other ethical issues are discussed. • Transparency The values comprise: • How Sveaskog conducts business • Employees must be professional and understand customer To ﬁnd out more: needs, take initiative and be innovative. The State’s governance policy • How employees should act as employees and colleagues www.regeringen.se/regeringens-politik/ • Employees should be guided by the vision, goals and stratbolag-med-statligt-agande/sa-styrs-bolagen/ egies and show respect for the integrity and knowledge of their colleagues. Sveaskog’s Articles of Association • How managers and leaders take special responsibility www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/bolagsstyrning/ • Managers and leaders must create an innovative climate and bolagsordning/ an open culture with feedback. Sveaskog has a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees. Sveaskog’s Code of Conduct Anyone who concludes agreements with customers, suppliwww.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/uppforandekod/ ers, contractors and consultants must ensure and monitor that these comply with the Code of Conduct. Sveaskog's managers The Swedish Companies Act shall ensure that the Code of Conduct is complied with in daywww.regeringen.se to-day operations. The Code of Conduct must be read in connection with new recruitment, performance appraisals, procureThe Swedish Corporate Governance Code ment, operational follow-ups, etc. The Code of Conduct must be www.bolagsstyrning.se/ appended to business and cooperation agreements. In order to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers there is a separate reporting system for deviations or infringewww.business.nasdaq.com/list/Rules-and-Regulations/ ments. This whistle-blower function is available through the European-rules/nasdaq-stockholm/index.html website and provides guaranteed anonymity. The function is A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 53 M ES SAG E F R O M TH E C HAI R MAN Eva Färnstrand, Chairman of the Board. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Sveaskog manages the forest in a sustainable and transparent manner A s Sweden's largest forest owner, how we ﬁnancial and a climate perspective. We are proud of manage and utilise our forest is of great our holding in Setra and of the other customers we importance. The foundations of the forest get to deliver to and we strive to learn more about that we see today were laid by generations before their terms and delivery parameters. us and our forest management will affect generaIn recent years, the climate issue has played an tions after us. We therefore strive to have an open increasingly central role in public debate. For us, and constructive discussion with the world around us however, it has always been in focus and through about the methods that create the most value, both our operations we can show that we contribute to for our customers, but of course also for wider socilong-term sequestration of carbon dioxide. Another ety, including biodiversity. We want our forests to be effect of climate change are new threats, including accessible to everyone and have therefore worked species that have not previously existed to the same extra hard during the year to open up our ecoparks. extent in our latitudes. However, thanks to our forIn the ecoparks we combine forestry with nature estry methods and our location in the North, here in conservation in order to both preserve and develop Sweden we have not been hit as hard by the ravages high conservation values. In the ecoparks there are of the spruce bark beetle as forest owners in Central today many nature tourism companies which use our Europe. One development that is constantly gainforests as their base and we would like to see more. ing ground is new digital technology and how it can We strive to increase quality in both production be used in forestry. Thanks to good knowledge and and nature conservation, and we want to increase effective methods, we can use satellite photos and both the value of wood and conservation values. drones to search for and then remove infected trees. Forests are an important part of the transition to a In the work performed by the Board, I would like sustainable society, after all. Our work on measuring to highlight the recruitment of our CEO and severall the values of the forest is part of this approach al development projects, such as reﬁning of lignin and we try to put ﬁgures on carbon sequestration for use as a renewable and climate-smart alternaand ecosystem services, among other things. We tive to fossil fuels. We also worked on developing want to show the positive things that we do, but also the dialogue with our stakeholders regarding nature obtain supporting information for reducing negative conservation and how to develop the business with impacts. During the year we also embarked on a prorespect to the entire value chain. ject together with researchers and nature conservaFinally, I would like to thank all the employees at tion organisations on how we can evaluate biodiverSveaskog for the work they do every day on caring for sity so that we can follow up the measures we take, and reﬁning our forests. Few business activities mean as well as the consequences. this much to our society and have such a great future! Our business is at the early stage of the forest Stockholm, March 2020 value chain and we work hard to adapt our production to the next stage of the chain, that is, our customers and their customers. Our new CEO, Hannele Arvonen, who joined us from the position of CEO of Setra, is recruited from the customer side and her knowledge of the forest value chain is valuable. It is particularly important to continue to develop and Eva Färnstrand reﬁne the wood mechanical industry, both from a Chairman of the Board 54 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 BOAR D OF DI R ECTORS Board of Directors Eva Färnstrand Marie Berglund Johan Kuylenstierna Chairman of the Board Director Director MSc in Engineering. Born in 1951. Elected in MSc in Biology. Born in 1958. Elected in 2019. Ph. Lic. Physical Geography. Born in 1965. 2008 and Chairman since 2017. Chairman of Member of the Remuneration Committee. Elected in 2019. Member of the Property the Remuneration Committee and member of Committee. Other assignments: Raw Material Manager and the Audit Committee. Sustainability Coordinator at NCC Industry AB. Other assignments: Adjunct professor and Other assignments: Member of the Royal Board member of Boliden AB, BalticSea 2020 honorary doctorate at Stockholm University. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences Foundation and the Advisory Council of the Deputy Chairman of the Climate Policy (IVA). Chairman of Infranord AB and C-Green County Administrative Board of Västernorrland. Council. Member of the Rectors’ Council Technology AB. for Sustainable Development at Stockholm Previous experience: Previously held position of Chariman of Forsen AB. University, Board member WWF Sweden, external CEO of Bioendev AB, Environmental Board member University of Gothenburg, Previous experience: Plant Manager at Södra Manager at Botniabanan AB and Group Board member Ecogain AB, Board member Ecologist and Environmental Audit Leader in Cell Mönsterås, CEO of Tidningstryckarna Axfoundation, Owner Modulator AB, Member Mo och Domsjö AB. Chairman of Eurocon AB, Business Area Manager at SCA. of the Research Policy Advisory Committee to Consulting AB and MIS Environmental and Chairman of Proﬁlgruppen AB and the Swedish Government. Sustainability Auditors in Sweden. Board Inlandsinnovation AB. Board member of e.g. member of e.g.Swedish Forest Agency, The Previous experience: Member of the Royal Saminvest AB, Indutrade AB, Domsjö fabriker Bothnian Sea Water Delegation, the Swedish Swedish Academy of Forestry and Agriculture. AB, Södra Cell AB, Handelsbanken World Wildlife Fund WWF, Enetjärn Natur Board member Smarta Samtal Foundation. regionbank Stockholm City and Schibsted AB and the Delegation for the Promotion of Former CEO of Stockholm Environment Trykk AS. Environmentally Friendly Technology. Institute. Has also worked at the United Nations in New York, Geneva and Rome. Sven Wird Kenneth Andersson Sara Östh Director Director Director MSc in Engineering. Born in 1951. Elected in Machine operator. Born in 1969. Elected in MSc Forestry. Forest management leader. 2016. Member of the Property Committee. 2017. Born in 1983. Elected in 2018. Other assignments: Chairman of Nordiska Employee representative appointed by the Employee representative. Virkesbörsen AB. Board member of Rise Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Union. Member of the Property Committee. Research Institutes of Sweden AB. Member of the Audit Committee. Previous experience: Technology Director, Holmen AB. Leading positions at SCA, Norske Skog France, Modo AB and Modo Paper AB. Formerly Chairman of the Board of SunPine AB and Board member of Innventia AB, SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden and Melodea Ltd. 56 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 BOAR D OF DI R ECTORS Kerstin Lindberg Göransson Leif Ljungqvist Annika Nordin Director Director Director MSc Business and Economics. Born in 1956. MSc Business and Economics. Born in PhD Forestry Born in 1968. Elected in 2016. Elected in 2019. 1971. Elected in 2016. Member of the Member of the Property Committee. Rremuneration and Audit Committees. Chairman of the Audit Committee. Other assignments: Professor of Forest Other assignments: Company Managers and Ecophysiology, Swedish University of Other assignments: CEO of Akademiska Deputy Director of the Ministry of Enterprise Agricultural Sciences. Programme leader for the Hus AB since 2011. Board member of and Innovation's corporate governance unit. Future Forests research programme. Member Hemnet Group AB. Formerly Airport Director Samhall AB and Teracom AB. of the Royal Swedish Academy of Forestry Stockholm-Arlanda Airport and CFO and and Agriculture, the Kungliga Skytteanska Deputy CEO of Scandic Group. Previous experience: Board member of Samfundet Society and Board member of the Apoteket AB, Statens Bostadstransformation Previous experience: Chairman of Svensk Forestry Research Institute of Sweden. AB, Akademiska Hus AB, AB Svensk Bilprovning AB and K2 National Knowledge Bilprovning, Vasallen AB and AB Previous experience: Vice Dean of the Faculty Centre for Public Transport and former member Bostadsgaranti. Previously equity analyst of Forestry Science at the Swedish University of the Third Swedish National Pension Fund, Kaupthing Bank, Nordiska Fondkommission of Agricultural Sciences, Board member Jernhusen AB, Strömma Sjöfarts och Turism AB, and Hagströmer & Qviberg. of Berzelii Centre for Forest Biotechnology Grand Hotel AB, OEM AB and Swegon AB. and member of the Environmental Research Advisory Board. Auditor The auditor is audit ﬁrm Deloitte AB with Hans Warén, born 1964, as Auditor in charge. Deloitte AB’s address is Rehnsgatan 11, SE-113 79 Stockholm. Lars Djerf Thomas Esbjörnsson Deputy member of the Board Deputy member of the Board Machine operator. Born in 1968. Elected in Logistician. Born in 1962. Elected in 2015. 2013. Employee representative. Employee representative appointed by the Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Union. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 57 MANAG E M E NT Management Hannele Arvonen Per Matses Nina Arkeberg President and CEO Deputy CEO, CFO PA to the CEO, co-opted member of Group Management MSC in Forestry and BA International Relations. Born in 1958. Employed since 2010. Born: 1966. Employed in 2019. Assumed current position in 2010. MSc Business Administration & Assumed current position in 2019. Management. Born 1967. Employed in Previous experience: Deputy CEO, CFO 2011. Assumed current position in 2011. Previous experience: President and CEO and Administrative Director at Apoteket of Setra Group. Leading positions at AB, Finance Director at Postgirot Bank Previous experience: PA to CEO of Svevia Iggesunds Paperboard, Holmen Paper, AB and Finance Director at Posten AB. and PA to CEO of Stora Enso Grycksbo Bruk. Metsä Board, Metso Paper and Norrskog. Other assignments: Chairman of Sveaskog Other assignments: Member of the Royal Försäkrings AB and Hjälmare Kanal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. AB. Board member of Setra Group AB, SJ AB and Praktikertjänst AB. Anders Nilsson Helene Samuelsson Marie Stålnacke Acting Head of Svenska Skogsplantor Head of Communications and Public Affairs Head of HR MSc Business and Economics. Born BA App Science Chemistry – Queensland BSc Human Resource Management. in 1965. Employed since 2000. University of Technology, Marketing and PR Born in 1966. Employed since 2019. Assumed current position in 2019. – Berghs School of Communications. Born Assumed current position in 2019. in 1965. Employed since 2018. Started Previous experience: CFO and Previous experience: Leading positions at in 2018 and left in February 2020. Chief Controller of Sveaskog, CFO Stora Enso with responsibility for HR, comof AssiDomän Karlsborg AB, Group Previous experience: Head of Commumunication, working environment and safety. Controller at Dynapac AB. nications & Public Affairs at Preem AB HR Manager at Lantmäteriet with responsiand Marketing Manager Preem AB. bility for HR, research and external issues. Other assignments: Chairman of the Board, Sveaskog Baltfor. Other assignments: Board member Sveaskog Baltfor. 58 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 MANAG E M E NT Viveka Beckeman Eva Karlsson Berg Fredrik Klang Head of Legal Affairs and Property Head of Market Area South Head of Forestry LLM. Born in 1971. Employed in 2012. MSc in Engineering. Born in 1959. Employed MSc, PhD in Forestry. Born in 1970. Assumed current position in 2012. since 2015. Assumed current position in 2015. Employed since 2000. Assumed current position in 2018. Previous experience: Legal adviser at Previous experience: Leading Aditro Holding AB, lawyer at Advokatﬁrman positions within Stora Enso. Chairman Previous experience: Head of Market Vinge, Clerk at Svea Court of Appeal and of the Swedish Association of Pulp Area South. Regional Manager and Head law clerk at Helsingborg District Court. and Paper Engineers (SPCI). of Production for Götaland, District Manager, Head of Silviculture, AssiDomän Other assignments: Board member Other assignments: Board member Forestry, SLU, SCA Strömsund. of Sveaskog Försäkrings AB, of University of Gävle. Chairman of SunPine AB. Other assignments: Board member of Sveaskog Försäkrings AB. Board member, chairman of Arboreal AB. Ane e Waara Jan Wintzell Head of Market Area North Head of Business Development & Innovation MSc Forestry. Born in 1969. Employed since MSc Forestry. Born in 1961. Employed 2002. Assumed current position in 2016. since 2013. Assumed current position in 2013. Chairman of SunCarbon. Previous experience: Head of Production, Market Area Västerbotten, Previous experience: Among other Head of Västerbotten proﬁt area. things, senior positions at Pöyry Management Consulting. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U S TA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 59 SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT Sustainability Report Sveaskog publishes a Sustainability Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 6:11 which is integrated into the Annual Report. The Sustainability Report comprises Sveaskog AB and its subsidiaries. According to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Sustainability Report must include business model, policy, policy outcome, significant risks, risk management and performance indicators. The table shows where in the Annual Report the various areas can be found. Area Disclosure requirements Environment Staff Social Human Anticonditions rights corruption Business The Sustainability Report Sveaskog's business model is described on pages 24-25: Sveaskog's sustainable value chain model must describe the company's business model Policy The Sustainability Report This is described Working Decent work, Human rights and Human rights and must describe the policy on pages 22 environment page 23, new anti-corruption, anti-corruption, applied by the Company in (energy) and and gender contractor page 34-35, page 34-35, respect of these issues, 26-27 equality, strategy, Corporate Corporate including the audit (environment) pages 23, page 39 Governance Governance procedures that have been 34-35 Report, pages Report, pages implemented 49-53 and Code 49-53 and Code of Conduct of Conduct sveaskog.se sveaskog.se Policy The Sustainability Report This is described Working Creating a Human rights and Human rights and outcomes must describe the outcomes on pages 22 environment sustainable anti-corruption, anti-corruption, of the policy (energy) and and gender value chain, page 34-35, page 34-35, 26-27 equality, pages 23, 39 Corporate Corporate (environment) pages 23, Governance Governance 34-35 Report, pages Report, pages 49-53 and Code 49-53 and Code of Conduct of Conduct sveaskog.se sveaskog.se Significant The Sustainability Report Risk and sensiRisk and Risk and Risk and sensitivRisk and sensitivrisks shall describe the significant tivity analysis, sensitivity sensitivity ity analysis, social ity analysis, social risks which relate to these weather, climate analysis, analysis, social risks, page 47 risks, page 47 issues and are linked to the and environmenoperational and risks, pages Company's activities, tal risks, page 46 legal risks, page 44-47 including, where relevant, 46 the Company's business relationships, products or services that are likely to have negative consequences Risk The Sustainability Report Risk and sensiRisk and Risk and Risk and Risk and managemust describe how the tivity analysis, sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity ment Company manages the risks weather, climate analysis, analysis, social analysis, social analysis, social and environmenoperational risks, page 47 risks, page 47 risks, page 47 tal risks, page 46 and legal risks, page 46 PerforThe Sustainability Report Biodiversity and Sickness Evaluation of Values and Values and mance must describe key nature absence and contractors, antiantiindicators1 performance indicators conservation, occupational page 39 discriminatory discriminatory relevant to the business pages 26-27 injuries, page practice, practice, 34 pages 49-53 pages 49-53 1) A summary of all indicators can be found on page 6. 60 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 'FIVE-YEAR SU M MARY Five year summary1 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income statements, MSEK Net sales 7,209 6,971 6,206 5,922 6,078 Other operating income 109 160 205 171 105 Operating expenses –5,690 –5,624 –5,082 –4,885 –4,819 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment –145 –85 –81 –80 –84 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,483 1,422 1,248 1,128 1,280 Capital gains on property disposals 185 234 321 131 78 Share of profit/loss of associates 26 156 108 53 10 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,694 1,812 1,677 1,312 1,368 Change in value of forest assets 399 1,697 200 319 1,432 Operating profit 2,093 3,509 1,877 1,631 2,800 Net financial income/expense –130 –143 –133 –174 –214 Profit before tax 1,963 3,366 1,744 1,457 2,586 Tax –405 –195 –360 –267 –569 Profit for the year 1,558 3,171 1,384 1,190 2,017 Statement of comprehensive income for the year, MSEK Profit for the year 1,558 3,171 1,384 1,190 2,017 Total other comprehensive income after tax –29 26 29 –18 34 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,529 3,197 1,413 1,172 2,051 Balance sheet, MSEK Non-current assets, non-interest-bearing 38,164 37,498 35,704 35,415 35,080 Non-current receivables, interest-bearing 4 3 5 7 8 Inventories 576 570 540 582 669 Current receivables, non-interest bearing 1,691 1,868 1,662 1,520 1,407 Cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables 1,114 847 1,681 1,070 1,135 Total assets 41,549 40,786 39,592 38,594 38,299 Equity 23,574 23,145 20,816 20,081 19,714 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 9,708 9,776 9,685 9,506 9,361 Interest-bearing liabilities 8,267 7,865 9,091 9,007 9,224 Total equity and liabilities 41,549 40,786 39,592 38,594 38,299 Operating capital 30,736 30,314 28,316 28,012 27,809 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 1,108 921 778 789 909 Cash flow from investing activities 16 334 502 122 –62 Cash flow from financing activities –857 –2,089 –669 –976 –1,057 Cash flow for the year 267 –834 611 –65 –210 Net interest-bearing debt 7,149 7,014 7,410 7,937 8,089 Performance measures Return on equity, % 6.7 14.4 6.7 6.0 10.6 Dividend yield, % 4.9 5.4 4.8 4.2 4.7 Equity ratio,% 57 57 53 52 51 Return on operating capital, % 6.8 12.0 6.6 5.8 10.3 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.30 0.30 0.36 0.40 0.41 Capital turnover rate, multiple 0.24 0.24 0.22 0.21 0.22 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 11.6 11.0 10.0 6.3 6.2 Gross margin, % 31 49 30 28 47 Operating margin, % 29 50 30 28 46 Dividend Total approved dividend, MSEK 2 1,1002 1,100 900 800 800 Investments, MSEK Business acquisitions and investments in shares 5 1 1 1 1 Other investments 445 237 219 183 329 Staff Number of employees 682 682 685 674 688 Average number of employees 807 840 846 844 851 Expensed salaries and other remuneration, MSEK 385 379 386 373 368 1) Sveaskog has chosen to present the Company’s alternative performance measures in accordance with the decision by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). See pages 115–117. 2) The figure for 2019 is the proposed dividend. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 61 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Consolidated income statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 Net sales Note 4, 7 7,209 6,971 Other operating income Note 5 109 160 Raw materials and consumables –2,314 –2,291 Change in inventories 31 17 Other external costs Note 6, 7 –2,838 –2,795 Personnel costs Note 8 –569 –555 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment Note 7, 9 –145 –85 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,483 1,422 Capital gains on property disposals Note 15 185 234 Share of profit/loss of associates Note 16 26 156 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,694 1,812 Change in value of forest assets Note 15 399 1,697 Operating profit 2,093 3,509 Financial expenses Note 10 –130 –143 Net financial income/expense –130 –143 Profit before tax 1,963 3,366 Tax Note 11 –405 –195 Profit for the year 1,558 3,171 Earnings per share undiluted, SEK 13.16 26.78 diluted, SEK 13.16 26.78 Statement of comprehensive income MSEK 2019 2018 Profit for the year 1,558 3,171 Other comprehensive income Components that will not be reversed in profit or loss Actuarial gains/losses relating to pensions –25 –4 Tax on actuarial gains/losses 5 1 Components that may be reversed in profit or loss Exchange differences 1 1 Other comprehensive income from associates –8 22 Tax on other comprehensive income from associates 2 –4 Cash flow hedges –5 13 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges 1 –3 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax –29 26 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 1,529 3,197 62 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Consolidated balance sheet MSEK Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 1 Jan 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 13 136 124 93 Right of use assets Note 7 129 – – Property, plant and equipment Note 14 –Forest land Note 15 2,723 2,515 2,460 –Other property, plant and equipment 537 479 458 Biological assets – standing timber Note 15 33,900 33,607 32,054 Non-current financial assets –Interests in associates Note 16 712 752 634 –Other securities held as non-current assets Note 16 16 11 24 –Non-current receivables Note 17 4 3 5 Deferred tax assets Note 11 11 10 13 Total non-current assets 38,168 37,501 35,741 Current assets Stock Note 18 576 570 540 Contract assets 14 22 14 Advance payments to suppliers 165 219 168 Tax assets 34 1 1 Trade receivables, loan receivables and other receivables Note 19 1,478 1,626 1,479 Cash and cash equivalents Note 21 1,114 847 1,681 Total current assets 3,381 3,285 3,883 TOTAL ASSETS 41,549 40,786 39,624 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Note 20 Share capital 118 118 118 Reserves –35 –27 –56 Retained earnings 23,491 23,054 20,786 Total equity 23,574 23,145 20,848 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Note 21, 26 5,253 4,688 5,187 Provisions for pensions Note 22 376 384 418 Other provisions for pensions and similar obligations Note 22 13 20 26 Non-current liabilities 6 6 6 Other provisions Note 24 153 165 150 Deferred tax liabilities Note 11 8,354 8,207 8,260 Total non-current liabilities 14,155 13,470 14,047 Current liabilities Current interesting-bearing liabilities and provisions Note 21, 22, 26 2,625 2,773 3,465 Contract liabilities 2 1 2 Tax liabilities 47 156 91 Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions Note 23, 24 1,146 1,241 1,171 Total current liabilities 3,820 4,171 4,729 Total liabilities 17,975 17,641 18,776 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,549 40,786 39,624 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 63 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to the Parent Company's shareholders Share Hedging Translation Retained MSEK capital reserve reserve earnings Total Closing equity 31 December 2017 118 –45 –11 20,754 20,816 ShoreLink reclassified as associate in opening balance 2018 – – – 32 32 Adjusted opening equity 1 January 2018 118 –45 –11 20,786 20,848 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 3,171 3,171 Other comprehensive income Actuarial gains/losses relating to pensions – – – –4 –4 Tax on actuarial gains/losses – – – 1 1 Other comprehensive income from associates – 17 5 0 22 Tax on other comprehensive income from associates – –4 0 0 –4 Cash flow hedges – 13 – – 13 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges – –3 – – –3 Translation differences relating to translation of foreign operations – – 1 – 1 Total comprehensive income – 23 6 3,168 3,197 Dividend paid according to Annual General Meeting resolution 23 April 2018 – – – –900 –900 Closing equity 31 December 2018 118 –22 –5 23,054 23,145 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 1,558 1,558 Other comprehensive income Actuarial gains/losses relating to pensions – – – –25 –25 Tax on actuarial gains/losses – – – 5 5 Other comprehensive income from associates – –7 1 –2 –8 Tax on other comprehensive income from associates – 1 – 1 2 Cash flow hedges – –5 – – –5 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges – 1 – – 1 Translation differences relating to translation of foreign operations – – 1 – 1 Total comprehensive income – –10 2 1,537 1,529 Dividend paid according to Annual General Meeting resolution 24 April 2019 – – – –1,100 –1,100 CLOSING EQUITY 31 DECEMBER 2019 118 –32 –3 23,491 23,574 64 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Consolidated cash flow statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit 2,093 3,509 Non-cash items Note 12 –574 –2,091 Interest received, etc. 0 0 Interest paid –138 –144 Tax paid –396 –181 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 985 1,093 Change in working capital: Operating receivables 206 –207 Inventories 3 –38 Operating liabilities, etc. –86 73 Cash flow from operating activities 1,108 921 Investing activities Investments in non-current assets –445 –237 Investments in shares –5 –1 Dividends from associates 60 56 Sale of non-current assets 407 516 Change in interest-bearing receivables –1 – Cash flow from investing activities 16 334 Financing activities Change in equity: Dividend –1,100 –900 Change in interest-bearing liabilities: Borrowings 8,450 7,990 Repayment of loans –8,207 –9,179 Cash flow from financing activities –857 –2,089 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 267 –834 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Note 21 847 1,681 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Note 21 1,114 847 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 65 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Parent Company’s income statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operating income Net sales Note 4, 7 14 14 Other operating income Note 5 29 69 43 83 Operating expenses Other external costs Note 6, 7 0 –1 Personnel costs Note 8 –2 –2 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan Note 9 0 0 Total expenses –2 –3 Operating profit 41 80 Profit/loss from financial items Note 10 Other financial income 19 16 Other financial expense –319 –278 Net financial income/expense –300 –262 Profit/loss before appropriations and tax –259 –182 Group contributions received 376 182 Provisions to untaxed reserves –70 – Profit before tax 47 0 Tax Note 11 –45 0 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR1 2 0 Proposed dividend per share, SEK (2018 approved dividend per share) 9.29 9.29 1 Same as Total comprehensive income for the year. 66 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Parent Company’s balance sheet MSEK Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Note 14 Forest properties 34 30 Buildings, other land and land improvements 12 13 Total property, plant and equipment 46 43 Non-current financial assets Shares and participations Note 16 24,934 24,934 Receivables from Group companies, interest-bearing Note 3, 17 1,200 1,700 Total financial non-current assets 26,134 26,634 Total non-current assets 26,180 26,677 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies Note 3, 17, 19 389 184 Tax assets 0 0 Other receivables Note 19 73 91 Receivables from Group companies, interest-bearing Note 3, 19 500 – Cash at bank and in hand Note 21 0 0 Total current assets 962 275 TOTAL ASSETS 27,142 26,952 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Note 20 Restricted equity Share capital 118 118 Statutory reserve 24 24 Total restricted equity 142 142 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings 6,323 7,423 Profit for the year 2 0 Total unrestricted equity 6,325 7,423 Total equity 6,467 7,565 Untaxed reserves Tax allocation reserve 70 – Total untaxed reserves 70 0 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Note 21 5,183 4,687 Total non-current liabilities 5,183 4,687 Current liabilities Liabilities to Group companies, interest-bearing Note 3, 21 12,811 11,957 Other liabilities, interest-bearing Note 21 2,525 2,712 Liabilities to Group companies Note 3, 23 1 0 Tax liabilities 45 – Other liabilities Note 23 40 31 Total current liabilities 15,422 14,700 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 27,142 26,952 For information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 67 FI NANCIAL R E PORT Parent Company’s statement of changes in equity Statutory Unrestricted MSEK Share capital1 reserve equity Total Equity 31 December 2017 118 24 8,323 8,465 Dividend paid according to decision by Annual General Meeting 24 April 2019 – – –900 –900 Profit for the year – – 0 0 Equity 31 December 2018 118 24 7,423 7,565 Dividend paid according to decision by Annual General Meeting 24 April 2019 – – –1,100 –1,100 Profit for the year – – 2 2 Equity 31 December 2019 118 24 6,325 6,467 1) Number of shares amounts to 118,373,034 Class A shares. Also see Note 20 Equity. Cash flow statement, Parent Company MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit 41 80 Non-cash items Note 12 –28 –68 Interest and dividends received 18 16 Interest paid –315 –278 Tax paid 0 0 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital –284 –250 Change in working capital Operating receivables 9 8 Operating liabilities 5 0 Cash flow from operating activities –270 –242 Investing activities Investments in non-current assets –25 0 Sale of non-current assets 50 74 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables 0 1,000 Increase in interest-bearing receivables 0 -300 Cash flow from investing activities 25 774 Financing activities Dividend paid –1,100 –900 Group contributions received 182 200 Borrowings 8,450 7,990 Repayment of loans –7,287 –7,822 Cash flow from financing activities 245 –532 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Note 21 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Note 21 0 0 68 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES Notes NOTE 1 Accounting policies General information and future periods if the change affects both the current period and Sveaskog AB (publ) and its subsidiaries (the Sveaskog Group) sell future periods. sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel. Just over half of net sales come from Judgements which have a significant impact on the financial statethe Group’s own forests and the rest from externally acquired wood ments and estimates made and which may result in significant adjustraw materials. The Group's own forests comprise forests that are ments to the following year's financial statements are described in 100 percent located in Sweden. more detail in the relevant notes. The Parent Company is a public limited company whose registered The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistoffice is in Sweden. The address of the company’s registered office is ently to all periods presented in the financial statements. The Group's Torggatan 4, Kalix, Sweden. accounting policies have been consistently applied in reporting and In connection with the Board meeting held on 9 March 2020, the consolidation of subsidiaries. Board of Directors of Sveaskog AB (publ) decided to approve the 2019 financial statements for publication. The approved financial stateChange in classification in accounting policies ments comprise the income statements, balance sheets, statements of and disclosures changes in equity and cash flow statements, together with accompanyShoreLink ing notes, submitted by the Sveaskog Group and the Parent Company. With effect from 2019, Sveaskog accounts for ShoreLink as an associate according to the equity method. ShoreLink was previously recCompliance with standards and legislation ognised as other entity. The comparative year has been restated and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordthe financial statements include a third balance sheet with a restated ance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by opening balance as at 1 January 2018. the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as well as interpretations from the IFRS Interpretations Committee, as adopted by the Effect of reclassification of ShoreLink European Commission for application within the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 – SupIncome statement, MSEK 2018 plementary Accounting Rules for Groups has been applied. Share of profit/loss of associates 5 Annual accounts Operating profit 5 The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordFinancial income –2 ance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish FinanProfit before tax 3 cial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2, according to which Profit for the year 3 the Parent Company is required to apply all IFRS and interpretations Earnings per share adopted by the EU in the annual accounts of the legal entity as far as is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act undiluted, SEK 0.02 and taking into account the link between accounting and taxation. The diluted, SEK 0.02 recommendation sets out the exceptions from and additions to IFRS that must be implemented. Balance sheet, MSEK 31 Dec 2018 01 Jan 2018 The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Investments in associates 38 35 Group except in the cases shown below under section Parent ComOther securities held as non-current assets –3 –3 pany’s accounting policies . The differences in accounting policies that exist between the Parent Company and the Group are due to limitaTotal non-current assets 35 32 tions relating to the ability to apply IFRS in the Parent Company as a Total assets 35 32 result of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension Retained earnings 35 32 Obligations Vesting Act and taxation legislation. Total equity 35 32 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 35 32 Measurement basis Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, apart from certain financial assets, liabilities and biological assets, which are measured at fair value. New and revised standards applied by the Group with effect from 1 January 2019 Judgements and estimates in the financial statements IFRS 16 Leases Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS Sveaskog applies IFRS 16 Leases with effect from 1 January 2019. This requires management to make judgements and estimates, as well as standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, including IFRIC 4 and SIC 27. For lesto make assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies sees, IFRS 16 means that virtually all leases must be accounted for in and the recognised amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expensthe balance sheet. Right-of-use assets and liabilities are measured at es. The estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience the present value of future lease payments. Depreciation of right-of-use and a number of other factors that are considered to be reasonable assets and interest expenses are recognised in the income statement. under the circumstances. The results of these estimates and assumpThe Group has applied all rules relating to transition relief. tions are used to assess the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Right-of-use assets are recognised separately from other assets in that are not otherwise clear from other sources. The actual outcome the consolidated balance sheet. Right-of-use assets are recognised at may differ from these estimates and judgements. cost less amortisation/depreciation and any impairment and adjusted Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changfor any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is recoges in estimates are recognised in the period in which the change is nised in the consolidated balance sheet in interest-bearing non-current made if it only affects that period, or in the period the change is made and current liabilities. The lease liability is recognised at amortised cost less lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured in connecA N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 69 NOTES IFRS 16 Leases NOTE 1 Accounting policies, cont. tion with changes in, for example, the lease term, guaranteed residual Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of materiality values and any changes in lease payments. Applies to annual reporting periods beginning 1 January 2020. Short leases (12 months or less) and leases where the underlying asset is of low value do not need to be recorded in the balance sheet. These are Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7: recognised in operating profit/loss in the same way as previous operating Interest Rate Benchmark Reform leases. For lessors, IFRS 16 does not involve any changes in the rules. The amendment is a response to the ongoing reforms of benchmark rates To see the effects on Sveaskog, see Note 7 Leases. that include future replacement of commonly used benchmark rates (e.g. STIBOR, EURIBOR, LIBOR) with alternative, risk-free, benchmark rates. Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IASB has provided relief to the hedge accounting requirements so that comRight to early redemption with negative compensation panies that apply hedge accounting may assume that the benchmark rate for The amendment to IFRS 9 clarifies that even where there is a right to the hedged item will correspond to the benchmark rate for hedging instruearly redemption of loans involving negative compensation, it is posments in the future. The Company has chosen to early adopt the amendsible for the lender to recognise the financial asset at amortised cost. ments; this amendment will not have an impact on the financial statements. Sveaskog has applied this amendment, but this has not had an effect on the financial statements. IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint The new standard aims to create a uniform approach to accounting Ventures for all types of insurance contracts, a higher degree of transparency of The amendments clarify that the exemption in IFRS 9 is applicable only the earnings of insurance undertakings and increased comparability to investments recognised according to the equity method. An entity shall between companies and countries. Applies to annual reporting periods apply IFRS 9, including the requirement for impairment of non-current beginning 1 January 2022. The effects of the amendment have not yet receivables, to joint ventures and associates. Sveaskog has applied this been evaluated by Sveaskog. amendment, but this has not had an effect on the financial statements. Performance measures Improvements to IFRS 2015-2017 Operating profit from continuing operations Improvements have been made to IAS 12 Income Taxes, IAS 23 BorOperating profit from continuing operations is the operating profit/loss rowing Costs, IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint before change in value of forest assets, share of profit/loss of associArrangements. Sveaskog has applied these amendments, but they ates and capital gains from property disposals. Operating profit from have not had any impact on the financial statements. continuing operations is the result of the Group's core operating activities, the vast majority of which comprise the forest operations, includAmendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or ing purchases and sales of sawlogs, pulpwood, wood chips and biofuel. Settlement The amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits mean that if a plan Operating profit before change in value of forest assets amendment, curtailment or settlement takes place in respect of a Operating profit before change in value of forest assets is the operatdefined benefit pension plan, the entity shall determine and account ing profit before calculation of forest growth according to IAS 41, fellfor the service cost during the current period, and the net interest for ing during the year and any forest assets sold or purchased. the period after the remeasurement using the assumptions used for the remeasurement. In addition, amendments have been included to Associates clarify the effect of a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement on the Associates are recognised in the consolidated income statement outrequirements relating to the asset ceiling. Sveaskog has applied this side operating profit from continuing operations because they do not amendment, but this has not had an effect on the financial statements. form part of the Group's core operating activities. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Segment reporting IFRIC 23 clarifies how to apply the accounting and measurement rules The Group applies IFRS 8, but this does not have a material impact on in IAS 12 Income Taxes when there is uncertainty about the treatment the Group's financial statements and has not led to any change in the of income taxes. These rules shall apply to the determination of taxable Group's segments, which consist of a single segment named Forest profit (and loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and Operations. Forest Operations is the Group's collective segment for tax rates. Sveaskog has applied these amendments, but they have not purchases and sales of sawlogs, pulpwood, wood chips and biofuels had any impact on the financial statements. and the operations are recognised internally as one segment. New standards and interpretations not yet effective Principles of consolidation Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in Transactions to be eliminated on consolidation IFRS Standards Intra-group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and unreApplies to annual reporting periods beginning 1 January 2020. alised gains or losses arising from intra-group transactions between Group companies are eliminated in full when preparing the consolidatAmendment to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: ed financial statements. Definition of a Business Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointThe purpose of the amendment is to clarify the definition of a business ly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent that the ownership combination. The amendments introduce an optional concentration interest in the entity is eliminated. Unrealised losses are eliminated in test that allows for a simplified assessment of whether an acquired the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is set of activities and assets is an acquisition of a business or asset. The no indication of impairment. test means that if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired can be attributed to an asset, or a group of similar assets, the Functional currency and date acquisition does not constitute a business acquisition, but an asset The functional currency is the Swedish krona, which is also the reportacquisition. The amendments must be applied to all acquisitions of a ing currency. This means that the financial statements are presented business or assets that occur on or after 1 January 2020. The amendin Swedish krona. All amounts, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to ment is not expected to have a material impact on Sveaskog. the nearest million SEK (MSEK). The amounts within parentheses refer to the previous year. Items relating to the income statement refer to the period 1 January – 31 December and items relating to the balance sheet refer to 31 December. 70 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 1 Accounting policies, cont. Foreign currency PARENT COMPANY Transactions in foreign currency Parent Company’s accounting policies Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional curThe Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance rency using the exchange rates at the date of the transactions. Monwith the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated into the ish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2. Accordfunctional currency using the exchange rates at the balance sheet ing to RFR 2, the Parent Company is required to apply all IFRS and date. Exchange differences arising from the translations are recoginterpretations adopted by the EU in the annual accounts of the legal nised in the income statement, partly in operating profit and partly in entity as far as is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annunet financial items depending on the nature of the underlying transacal Accounts Act and taking into account the relationship between tions. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at historical cost accounting and taxation. The recommendation sets out the exceptions are translated at the exchange rate at the time of the transaction. from and additions to IFRS that must be implemented. The differences The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic between the accounting policies of the Group and the Parent Compaenvironments in which the companies involved operate. The companies ny are shown below. in the Group are the Parent Company and subsidiaries. The functional The Parent Company’s accounting policies below have been applied currency is the Swedish krona, which is also the reporting currency. consistently to all periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. In accordance with the relief rules in RFR 2, IFRS 9 is not Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency applied in the Parent Company. Changes in the value of operating receivables and liabilities are recogDue to the relationship between accounting and taxation, the rules nised in operating profit, while changes in the value of financial receivin IFRS 16 do not need to be applied in a legal entity. The Parent Comables and liabilities are recognised in net financial items. pany implements this exemption from application of IFRS 16. The Parent Company has no leases. Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and Taxes other consolidated overvaluations and undervaluations, are translated As a responsible social stakeholder, Sveaskog strives to pay the right into Swedish krona at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. amount of tax, in the right country and at the right time, based on the Income and expenses in foreign operations are translated into Swedish activities carried out within the Group. Our decisions are based on a krona at average exchange rates that are an approximation of the rates commercial approach to tax expense in the companies that form part prevailing on each transaction date. Translation differences arising of the Sveaskog Group and we manage tax as an expense in the busifrom currency translation of foreign operations are recognised in other ness. In cases where legislation and/or rules are unclear, Sveaskog comprehensive income and in equity as a translation reserve. shall act responsibly, transparently and from a long-term perspective in order to minimise the risk of the wrong amount of tax being paid. Find Impairment out more about Sveaskog’s taxes in Note 11. If it is not possible to determine largely independent cash flows for an The Parent Company recognises untaxed reserves including individual asset, for the purposes of impairment testing, assets shall deferred tax liability. However, in the consolidated financial statements, be grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiuntaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liability and equity. able cash flows (so-called cash-generating unit). A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets for which it is possible to determine Group contributions and shareholder contributions cash flows that are largely independent of other assets or groups of The company reports group contributions and shareholder contributions assets. An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying amount of in accordance with RFR 2 Accounting for listed legal entities. The Parent an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. An Company recognises group contributions in appropriations according to impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. the alternative method. Impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is first recognised against goodwill. Thereafter, impairment losses are allocated to other assets included in the unit on a pro rata basis. NOTE 2 Information about the Parent Company Determining the recoverable amount Sveaskog AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556558-0031, is a Assets with a short maturity are not discounted. Swedish limited company whose registered office is in Kalix, Sweden. As The recoverable amount of other assets is the higher of fair value at 31 December 2019, the company was wholly owned by the Swedish less costs of disposal and value in use. When determining the value in state. The address of Sveaskog’s head office is: use, future cash flows are discounted by a discount factor that takes into account risk-free interest rates and the risk associated with the SE-105 22 STOCKHOLM specific asset. For an asset that does not generate cash flows that are Visiting address: Torsgatan 4 largely independent of other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Sveaskog AB (publ), owns and manages forest properties and shares in subsidiaries and is responsible for Group-wide financing. Reversal of impairment losses Impairment losses on loan receivables and trade receivables that are recognised at amortised cost are reversed if a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount can be objectively attributed to an event that NOTE 3 Related party transactions occurred after the impairment was recognised. Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been a ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES change in the assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount. Transactions with related parties take place on market terms. Related An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the carryparties are companies in which Sveaskog is able to exercise a controlling ing amount of the asset after reversal does not exceed the carrying or significant influence with regard to operational and financial decisions. amount that the asset would have had if no impairment loss had been Related parties also includes those companies and natural persons who made, taking into account any depreciation. are able to exercise a controlling or significant influence over Sveaskog's financial and operational decisions. Related party transactions also include defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 71 NOTES NOTE 3 Related-party transactions, cont. Transactions with the state For information on remuneration of senior executives and Board Sveaskog AB is 100% owned by the Swedish state. The Sveaskog members, see Note 8. Group's products and services are offered to the state, public authorities and state-owned enterprises on commercial terms in competition with other suppliers. Similarly, Sveaskog AB and its Group companies purchase products NOTE 4 Revenue breakdown and services from public authorities and state-owned enterprises at market prices and on commercial terms. Individually, neither the state, ACCOUNTING POLICIES government agencies nor state-owned enterprises account for a sigSveaskog applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. nificant proportion of the Sveaskog Group's net sales or profit/loss. In Revenue is recognised when the customer obtains control of the sold 2019, property transactions with the Swedish Environmental Protection good or service and is able to use and obtain benefit from the good or Agency amounted to MSEK 30 (7.7). The disposals took place at marservice. ket prices. There are no pledged assets or contingent liabilities. Sawlogs Sveaskog AB's transactions with subsidiaries Revenue from the sale of sawlogs comprise sawlogs of spruce, pine No internal property transactions took place in 2019 and 2018. and various hardwoods such as beech, oak and birch. Sales can range Sveaskog AB's invoicing to subsidiaries amounted to MSEK 14 from standard deliveries to complex, customised orders. To meet cus(14) in 2019. No purchases were made from subsidiaries. Dividends tomer demand, Sveaskog supplements the timber from its own forfrom Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB and interest income from and interests with externally purchased timber or by swapping timber with other est expenses to Group companies are described in Note 10 Financial forest owners. The customer obtains control of the timber when it is income and expense. delivered to industry and measured. Invoicing and revenue recognition With regard to Sveaskog AB's receivables from and liabilities to subtakes place in the same month as measurement. sidiaries, see Note 17 Non-current receivables, Note 19 Trade receivables, loan receivables and other receivables, Note 21 Cash and cash Pulpwood and woodchips equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and other financial instruments Revenue from the sale of pulpwood and wood chips includes a wide and Note 23 Non-interest-bearing liabilities. Details of shares in Group range from the Group’s own forests, imports and purchases from other companies are disclosed in Note 16 Shares and participations. forest owners. These products are sold to the paper and pulp industry. Sveaskog AB has issued guarantees for pensions to FPG for The customer obtains control of the pulpwood and wood chips when Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB. There are no other pledged assets or conthey are delivered to industry and measured. Invoicing and revenue rectingent liabilities. ognition takes place in the same month as measurement. Transactions with associates Biofuel Transactions with associates refer to Setra Group AB. Sveaskog FörvaltRevenue from the sale of biofuel include rejected branches and tree nings AB owns 50% of the shares and votes in Setra Group AB. tops as well as low-grade trees and fuelwood. The biofuel comes from Sales to Setra Group account for 15% (17) of the Group’s total net cleaning, thinning and regeneration harvesting in Sveaskog's own forsales. Purchases from Setra Group mainly comprise residual products ests and from purchases from other forest owners. Revenue is recogfrom Setra's sawmills (chips, shavings and bark) and account for 2% (2) nised when the biofuel is delivered to the customer. of the Group's total costs for raw materials and consumables. Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB has one more associate, SunPine AB, in which it holds Svenska Skogsplantor 25.1% of the shares and votes. There were no transactions with Sunpine Seeds and forest plants are produced and sold within the framework of AB in 2019 or 2018, neither purchases nor sales. With effect from 2019, the Svenska Skogsplantor brand. Svenska Skogsplantor also offers silviShoreLink AB, in which Sveaskog holds 24.07% of the shares and votes, culture services such as ground preparation and planting to external cusis also accounted for as an associate. Purchases of loading, unloading tomers. Revenue is recognised when seedlings or seeds are delivered to and timber transport services in the reporting period amounted to MSEK the customer or when planting or ground preparation has been carried out. 11 (19). The comparative year 2018 has been restated. Other Related-party transactions Other revenue from contracts with customers include silviculture Sveaskog has no pledged assets or contingent liabilities in respect of assignments, elk culling fees, fishing licenses, lockage, etc. Revenue is senior executives/Board of Directors. recognised when the services have been performed. For information on remuneration of senior executives and Board members, see Note 8. Concessions (revenue from leases) Transactions with senior executives Revenue from concessions mainly comprise hunting and fishing conThere were no transactions or receivables/liabilities from Sveaskog to cessions. Other concessions include rental objects and leases for e.g. senior executives/Board of Directors. agriculture, peatlands, gravel pits and rock quarries, as well as wind power and telecom equipment. Related-party transactions Group Parent company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Related party disposals, subsidiaries – – 14 14 Related party acquisitions, subsidiaries – – – – Receivables from related parties, Group companies – – 2,089 1,884 Liabilities to related parties, Group companies – – 12,812 11,957 Related party disposals, associates 1,072 1,209 – – Related party acquisitions, associates 55 68 – – Receivables from related parties, associates 88 113 – – Liabilities to related parties, associates 8 7 – – 72 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 4 Revenue breakdown, cont. NOTE 5 Other operating income Net sales by principal goods and services ACCOUNTING POLICIES State subsidies Parent A government grant attributable to a biological asset is recognised Group company as revenue when the terms and conditions are met. Grants are recMSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 ognised in the income statement through systematic allocation in the Sawlogs 3,297 3,283 – – same manner and over the same periods as the expenses for which Pulpwood and woodchips 2,969 2,924 – – the grants are intended as compensation. Government grants relatBiofuel 153 153 – – ed to assets are recognised in the balance sheet as deferred income and allocated over the useful life of the asset. Compensation for road Seedlings 305 233 – – grants of MSEK 24 (23) and nature conservation initiatives MSEK 7 Other 305 234 – – (4) were recognised as income in the income statement. Road grants Total revenue from contracts are of two types: for annual operations (summer and winter maintewith customers 7,029 6,827 0 0 nance) and for special operations (road improvements). There are no Of which IFRS 15 in net sales 7,025 6,824 – – unfulfilled conditions that could result in repayment. Lease income 184 147 14 14 Sveaskog does not expect any significant reductions in state subsidies in the next few years. For the rural areas programme environmenTotal net sales 7,209 6,971 14 14 tal values in the forest , applications are prioritised according to the Of which IFRS 15 in other operating highest conservation and cultural value. income 4 3 – – Road grants are paid to road maintenance organisations for areas Capital gains, etc. 105 157 29 69 where there are permanent residents more than 1 km from a public Total other operating income 109 160 29 69 road. The maintenance grant is calculated as a flat rate and amounts to approximately 50-70% of Sveaskog's maintenance costs for the roads Date of revenue recognition eligible for subsidies. The grants received are used each year. Every Goods and services transferred to road for which a grant has been provided can be monitored using the customers on a specific date 6,944 6,771 – – project number both at Sveaskog and the Swedish Transport AdminisServices transferred to customers tration, which is the main grant provider. over time 85 56 – – Insurance compensation Sveaskog has agreed, unsatisfied performance obligations that will not Sveaskog’s forest holdings are insured against additional costs caused be met within one year of MSEK 4,483 (4,638), of which MSEK 1,216 by storms and fire. No external insurance compensation was received (973) is expected to be earned in the next year, MSEK 2,645 (2,990) for this type of damage in 2019, nor in 2018. within 2-5 years and MSEK 622 (675) in the following years. The commitments consist of contracted deliveries forward in time, where Sveaskog has undertaken to deliver a certain volume per year. The valGroup Parent company ue of these obligations has some uncertainty since the contracts consist MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 of several delivery contracts where the price is renegotiated each year. Capital gains on sales of Of the unsatisfied performance obligations of MSEK 4,638 reported machinery, equipment and for 2018, MSEK 986 were attributable to 2019. In the reporting period, properties 41 91 28 68 MSEK 973 was recognised as revenue. Insurance compensation 1 0 – – Encroachment Net sales by geographic market compensation 25 11 – – The Group's net sales are 96% (97) attributable to Sweden. The Parent Subsidies 31 28 – – Company's net sales are wholly attributable to Sweden. Licensing revenue and Group Parent company royalties 4 3 – – MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other operating income 7 27 1 1 Total 109 160 29 69 Revenue by geographic market Net sales Sweden 6,886 6,746 14 14 Finland 113 55 – – Norway 11 9 – – Latvia 6 7 – – Poland 151 122 – – Germany 30 20 – – Denmark 0 11 France 9 0 – – Other countries 3 1 – – Total 7,209 6,971 14 14 Information on major customers The Group has three (3) customers, each of which accounts for more than 10% of sales. Sales to these customers amounted to MSEK 1,080 (1,209), MSEK 957 (1,033) and MSEK 744 (785) respectively. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 73 NOTES NOTE 6 Other external costs NOTE 7 Leases, cont. Of other external costs, 72% (73) comprise compensation to contrac• Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments, less any tors within Forest Operations, as well as freight and transportation. incentives paid when the lease was concluded). • Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially Fees and reimbursement of expenses to auditors measured using the index or rate at the commencement date. • Amounts expected to be payable by the lessee (or a related party or Group Parent company third party who is financially capable of discharging the obligations MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 under the agreement) according to residual value guarantees. • The exercise price of purchase options if the lessee is reasonably Deloitte AB certain to exercise those options. Audit assignment 3 2 – – • Penalties payable for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects Tax advisory services 0 0 – – that the lessee will exercise an option to terminate the lease. Other services 0 0 – – Total The lease liability is recognised in interest-bearing current and non-current liabilities in the Group's statement of financial position and Audit assignment 3 2 – – is described in Note 21. Audit activities other than the audit assignment 0 0 – – After the commencement date, the lease liability is measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect the interest on the lease liaTax advisory services 0 0 – – bility (using the effective interest method), and by reducing the carrying Other services 0 0 – – amount to reflect lease payments made. Total 3 2 – – The Group remeasures the lease liability (and makes a correspondThe audit assignment is the examination of the Annual Report and ing adjustment to the right-of-use asset) if either: financial statements and the administration by the Board of Directors • The lease term changes or the assessment of an option to purchase and the CEO, other tasks that it is incumbent on the company's audithe underlying asset changes, in which case the lease liability has to tors to perform, as well as advice or other assistance resulting from be remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using a observations made in connection with such examination or the perforrevised discount rate. mance of such other tasks. Any other work undertaken is included in • Lease payments change as a result of changes in an index or other audit activities. rate, or if there is a change in the amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease payments change due to NOTE 7 Leases a change in the variable rate, in which case a revised discount rate must be used). Group as lessee • A modification of the lease which is not recognised as a separate ACCOUNTING POLICIES lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting Sveaskog applies IFRS 16 Leasing, the simplified transition approach the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate. and applies option two (C8(b(ii))) to the measurement of the rightof-use asset. The transition to IFRS 16 has been implemented cenRight-of-use assets comprise the total of the initial measurement of trally and the organisation has been required to submit its leases. An the corresponding lease liability, any lease payments made at or before excel-based tool has been purchased for the management of leases. the commencement date and any initial direct costs. SubsequentFor accounting policies for the comparative year 2018, see the Annual ly, they are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and Report for 2018. impairment losses. The Group assesses whether the contract is, or contains, a lease Where the Group is required to dismantle and remove the underlywhen the contract is concluded. The Group recognises a right-of-use ing asset, restore the site on which it is located or restore the underlyasset and associated lease liability for all leases in which the Group is ing asset to the condition under the terms and conditions of the lease, the lessee, except for short-term leases (contracts classified as leases a provision is recognised and measured according to IAS 37, unless with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value (such these costs are incurred in connection with the production of goods. as office equipment). For these leases, the Group recognises lease Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease payments as a cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless term or the useful life of the underlying asset. If the lease transfers another systematic approach is more representative of when the ecoownership of the underlying asset to the Group or if the cost of the nomic benefits of the leased assets are obtained by the Group. right-of-use asset reflects that the Group will exercise a purchase The lease liability is initially valued at the present value of the lease option, the right-of-use asset shall be depreciated over the useful life payments not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the of the underlying asset. Depreciation starts at the lease commenceimplicit interest rate of the lease, if this interest rate can be readiment date. ly determined. If this interest rate cannot be readily determined, the Right-of-use assets are recognised as a separate item in the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate. The Group's incremental Group's statement of financial position. borrowing rate is determined on the basis of a yield curve based on The Group applies IAS 36 to determine whether the right-of-use bonds issued in SEK by companies with a similar credit rating. The asset is impaired and recognises any identified impairment loss as curve is produced by the information service Refinitiv and is used to described in Note 1 under Impairment losses and in Note 14 Property, determine the interest rate for each maturity. Plant and Equipment. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate include: shall not be included in the measurement of the lease liability or rightof-use asset. These payments are recognised as an expense in the 74 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 7 Leases, cont. NOTE 7 Leases, cont. period in which the event or relationship that gives rise to these payLease liability ments occurs and are included in Other external costs in profit or loss. As a practical solution, IFRS 16 permits lessees not to separate MSEK Lease liability non-lease components from lease components, and instead account Group for each lease component and any associated non-lease components Opening balance, 1 January 2019 126 as a single lease component. The Group has elected not to use this New leases 34 practical solution. Repayments and terminations –55 Remeasurements 18 Bridging the gap between IAS17 and IFRS16 Interest payable on maturity 1 MSEK Closing balance, 31 December 2019 124 Operating lease commitments as at 31 Dec 2018 140 of which current 53 Less: Short-term leases –8 of which non-current 71 Less: Leases of low value assets 0 Maturity analysis for other financial liabilities, see Note 26. Lease liability 1 January 2019 132 Reconciliation of financial liabilities to cash flow, see not 21. Less prepayment –6 Net 126 IFRS 16 impact on income statement Comparative figures according to IAS17 MSEK 2019 Parent Group Group company Depreciation of right-of-use assets –54 MSEK 2018 2018 Interest expenses for lease liabilities –1 Costs for the year for operating leases 54 – Deferred tax 0 Minimum lease payments 86 – Impact on net profit/loss –55 Maturity for non-cancellable operating leases Variable lease payments relating to the above leases but not included above 3 Within one year 48 – Short-term leases, lease expense 2019 9 Between one and five years 38 – Leases of low value assets, lease expense 2019 4 Longer than five years 0 – Total cash flow of leases 70 Total 86 0 Sveaskog is a lessee of: • Office premises, warehouses, storage rooms, garages • Forest machines, trucks and cars • Land for plant terminals, seed plantations, fishing rights, parking, etc. • Office equipment, alarms, etc. Right-of-use assets Right-of-use Right-ofRight-ofasset Total use asset use asset machinery & right-ofMSEK land building equipment use assets Group Opening balance, 1 January 2019 7 93 32 132 New leases 1 16 17 34 Terminated leases – 0 –1 –1 Remeasurements 0 8 10 18 Depreciation for the year –1 –42 –11 –54 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 7 75 47 129 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 75 NOTES NOTE 7 Leases, cont. Type of lease Notice period Extension Variable lease Residual value (before the end Lease term options Index clauses payments guarantees of the lease) Yes, Office premises 1-5 years Usually Usually property tax No 3-12 months Plant terminal 2-10 years Usually Usually No No 6-12 months Yes, Stock 6 years Yes Yes property tax Yes 12 months Garages and car parks 1-5 years Usually Usually No No 1-12 months Yes, for Yes, or 3 months for production linked to interest production Production machinery and trucks 2-6 years machines rate index No No machines Land and water for plantations, fishing waters and leasehold 2-50 years Yes Yes No No 12-24 months Office equipment, including One lease alarms, video equipment and linked to interest 10 months room booking screens 3-5 years Yes, for alarms rate index No No for alarms Yes, Cars 2-5 years No No vehicle tax Yes N/A Extension options have been included if it has been deemed Lease income reasonably certain that they will be exercised. The weighted average Parent incremental borrowing rate was 0.68% (0.65% as at 1 January 2019). Group company The Parent Company does not have any leases. A review is underway regarding the office premises in Stockholm, MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 which is the largest lease for rental premises. A new lease may be Group concluded in 2023. Income from leases for the year 184 147 14 14 Group as lessor ACCOUNTING POLICIES Maturity of existing leases Leases for which Sveaskog is the lessor are classified as finance or Within one year 168 143 14 14 operating leases. When the terms and conditions of the lease substanBetween one tially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the and five years 212 152 – – contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified Longer than five as operating leases. All Sveaskog's leases are operating leases. years 807 807 – – Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straightTotal 1,187 1,102 14 14 line basis over the current lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying The hunting and fishing agreements are mostly indefinite concessions, or amount of the underlying asset and recognised on a straight-line basis concessions for 1-5 years which can be terminated by either party at short over the lease term. notice. When a contract includes both lease and non-lease components, Contracts for agricultural leases, residential tenancies, etc. and concesthe Group applies IFRS 15 to allocate the consideration under the consions with tenancy rights (mainly holiday homes) have varying lease terms, tract to each component. but concessions involving housing usually have long lease terms or indefiSveaskog enters into leases as a lessor in respect of: nite leases associated with some form of protection of tenancy rights. • Hunting and fishing concessions. The Group has revenue from infrastructure leases for wind turbines, • Leases for housing and holiday homes, and farm tenancies and communication masts and other capital-intensive facilities. In particulicences. lar, leases for wind power are concluded for long lease terms, 25 years • Other land concessions such as wind power and mobile phone or more. The Group issues concessions for rights of use to rock quarmasts. ries, gravel pits and peatlands. In most cases, concessions are linked to • Gravel pits, peatlands and rock quarries. existing extraction licenses and may have a maturity of up to 25 years. 76 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 8 Staff costs, average number of employees and sickness absence ACCOUNTING POLICIES Employee benefits Salaries and other remuneration and social security expenses Pension obligations Group Parent company Sveaskog has pension obligations under pension plans arising from MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 collective agreements and as a result of obligations according to the incorporation agreement concluded with the government. Pension Salaries and other remuneration 385 379 2 2 plans are either defined contribution or defined benefit plans and Contractual pensions for CEO 2 2 – – include vested and non-vested pension obligations. Pension plans for Contractual pensions, others¹ 45 39 – – employees who are active members are financed primarily through preOther social security costs 137 135 – – mium payments to an insurance company. Total 569 555 2 2 Defined contribution plans Capitalised pension obligations to the CEO and Deputy CEO – – – – Obligations primarily relate to obligations to employees linked to the SAF-LO Collectively Agreed Pension and the ITP1 (new ITP) occupa1) Also see Note 22, Provisions for pensions. tional pension. Obligations relating to contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as Of the costs of contractual pensions, MSEK 15 (12) refers to defined benefits are earned, which normally coincides with the period for which benefit plans and MSEK 32 (29) defined contribution plans. premiums are paid. After premiums have been paid to the formal or informal independent insurance company engaged to provide pension Salaries and other remuneration by country insurance, there is no obligation to pay additional premiums. 2019 2018 Board, Board, Defined benefit plans CEO, Other CEO, Other Under defined benefit plans, the amount of pension is determined on Deputy employDeputy employthe basis of factors such as salary, length of service and age. MSEK CEO ees CEO ees Obligations primarily relate to obligations relating to employees Parent company linked to the ITP2 (old ITP) occupational pension and obligations relatSweden 2 – 1 – ing to pensions and annuities taken over from the state in connection with incorporation (see Note 22 Provisions for pensions). Subsidiaries The obligations under ITP2 are secured through premium payments Sweden 7 366 7 360 to Alecta. According to a statement issued by the Swedish Financial of which bonus – – – – Reporting Board (UFR 10), an ITP plan secured through insurance with Alecta shall be classified as a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Latvia 1 9 1 10 The Group has not had access to sufficient information to enable it to Finland – 0 – 0 account for the Group's share of the defined benefit obligations and the Lithuania – – – – plan assets and costs associated with the plan. The plan is therefore recTotal, subsidiaries 8 375 8 370 ognised as a defined contribution plan, which means that the premiums TOTAL 10 375 9 370 paid are recognised as an expense. Estimated contributions to the plan for the next reporting period aamount to MSEK 12 (12). Alecta's surplus can be distributed to policyholders and/or the insured persons. Alecta's Average number of employees by country capital adequacy target is that 140% of the market value of assets shall 2019 2019 2018 be achieved in relation to pension insurance obligations. Alecta's capital Women Men Total Total adequacy amounted to 148% (142), compared with obligations as at 31 December 2018. Sveaskog's share of the total number of active memParent company bers in the plan was 0.07% (0.07), corresponding to 292 (296) active Subsidiaries members. Net obligations in respect of other defined benefit plans are calculated separately for each plan based on company-specific actuarial Sweden 190 582 772 805 assumptions. These include assessments of future salary adjustments, Latvia 6 28 34 34 inflation rate, mortality, attrition and changes in income base amounts; Finland – 1 1 1 obligations are discounted to a present value. The discount rate is deterTotal, subsidiaries 196 611 807 840 mined on the basis of the market rate on mortgage bonds. TOTAL 196 611 807 840 The measurements were performed by a qualified external actuary. If the benefits in a plan improve, the proportion of the increased benefit attributable to employees’ service in previous periods is recogGender breakdown in Board and Group Management nised as an expense in the income statement allocated on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits are fully earned. If Group 2019 2018 the benefits are fully earned, an expense is immediately recognised in Women Men Women Men the income statement. In accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses are recogBoard members nised in other comprehensive income as they arise. Elected by the Annual General Meeting 4 3 3 3 Termination benefits Employee representatives 1 1 1 1 A provision is recognised in connection with termination of employment Employee representatives, only if the company is demonstrably obliged to terminate an employdeputies – 2 – 2 ment before the normal date or when termination benefits are offered to CEO 1 – – 1 encourage voluntary redundancy. In cases where employment is termiOther Group Management 5 4 4 4 nated by the company, a detailed plan is drawn up containing as a minimum the workplace, positions and number of persons concerned, as well Total 11 10 8 11 as the benefits for each personnel category or position and the schedule for implementation of the plan. The Boards of Sveaskog AB and Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB are identical. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 77 NOTES NOTE 8 Staff costs, average number of employees and sickness absence, cont. Parent company Remuneration and other benefits during 2019 2018 the year, Board of Directors Women Men Women Men Board CommitBoard members 2019, SEK fees tee fees Total Elected by the Annual Eva Färnstrand, General Meeting 4 3 3 3 Chairman of the Board 465,000 23,333 488,333 Employee representatives 1 1 1 1 Annika Nordin 183,333 40,000 223,333 Employee representatives, Sven Wird 183,333 40,000 223,333 deputies – 2 – 2 Leif Ljungqvist 0 0 0 CEO 1 – – 1 Marie Berglund, Total 6 6 4 7 from 24 April 2019 123,333 6,667 130,000 Johan Kuylenstierna Subsidiaries (operating) from 24 April 2019 123,333 26,667 150,000 2019 2018 Kerstin Lindberg Göransson Women Men Women Men from 24 April 2019 123,333 26,667 150,000 Board members Thomas Hahn, until 24 April 2019 60,000 6,667 66,667 Elected by the Annual Anna-Stina Nordmark-Nilsson, General Meeting 6 9 5 12 until 24 April 2019 60,000 13,333 73,333 Employee representatives 1 1 1 1 Total 1,321,665 183,334 1,504,999 Employee representatives, deputies – 2 – 2 Board Commit2018, SEK fees tee fees Total CEO 1 – – 1 Total 8 12 6 16 Eva Färnstrand, Chairman of the Board1 453,333 10,000 463,333 Thomas Hahn 178,333 20,000 198,333 Information on employee absence due to sickness, Group Annika Nordin1 178,333 40,000 218,333 2019 2018 Anna-Stina Nordmark-Nilsson1 178,333 40,000 218,333 Sven Wird1 178,333 40,000 218,333 Total sickness absence as a percentage of employees' total normal working hours Leif Ljungqvist 0 0 0 Men 2.6 2.7 Total 1,166,667 150,000 1,316,667 Women 4.9 4.5 1) Part of the fees were invoiced to companies owned by the Group. Markups were Total 3.2 3.2 made for social security expenses. The arrangement is cost neutral for Sveaskog. Days of sickness absence as a percentage of The Board of Directors also includes employee representatives. total sickness absence They do not receive fees. Continuous period of 60 days or more 42 31 < 60 days 58 69 Total 100 100 Breakdown by age of employees absent due to sickness, as a percentage 29 years and under 3.5 2.3 30–49 years 3.2 3.7 50 years and over 3.1 2.9 TOTAL 3.2 3.2 Number of long-term healthy people as a percentage of average number of permanent employees¹ 32.6 32.8 1) Persons employed for at least three years who have not been absent due to sickness in the last two years Principles for remuneration and other benefits for the Board of Directors and senior executives Principles The Chairman of the Board and other Board members elected by the Annual General Meeting are paid fees in accordance with a decision by the Annual General Meeting. Sveaskog follows government guidelines regarding remuneration of senior executives. Remuneration of the CEO is decided by the Board of Directors and remuneration of the rest of the Group Management by the CEO following consultation with the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration issues are prepared by the Remuneration Committee, which consists of Eva Färnstrand, Marie Berglund and Leif Ljungqvist. 78 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 8 Staff costs, average number of employees and sickness absence, cont. Remuneration and benefits during the year, Group Management and other senior executives Salaries and Pension 2019, SEK remuneration Taxable b expense1 Total Group Management Hannele Arvonen, CEO (from 1 July 2019) 2,133,600 20,671 609,174 2,763,445 Per-Olof Wedin, CEO (until 30 June 2019) 2,221,862 46,455 665,270 2,933,587 Per Matses, Deputy CEO, CFO 2,585,581 25,056 607,655 3,218,292 Anette Waara, Head of Market Area North 1,582,560 53,256 531,607 2,167,423 Eva Karlsson Berg, Head of Market Area South 1,743,915 6,504 684,345 2,434,764 Fredrik Klang, Head of Staff, Forestry 1,592,888 41,109 481,945 2,115,942 Viveka Beckeman, Chief Legal Officer 1,487,746 6,504 366,271 1,860,521 Helene Samuelsson, Head of Communications and Public Affairs 1,491,006 54,204 692,216 2,237,426 Jan Wintzell, Head of Business Development 1,383,817 41,844 427,990 1,853,651 Marie Stålnacke, HR Manager (from 1 October 2019) 346,939 19,420 101,252 467,611 Anders Nilsson, Acting Business Area Manager, Svenska Skogsplantor (from 2 December 2019) 111,437 3,000 26,597 141,034 Roger S Johansson, Business Area Manager, Svenska Skogsplantor (until 30 November 2019) 1,306,103 34,575 375,351 1,716,029 Henrik Dider, HR Manager (11 November 2019 12 July 2019) 526,586 20,936 172,200 719,722 Other senior executives Guntars Zvejsalnieks, CEO SIA Sveaskog Baltfor (EUR) 2 99,161 99,161 SEK 1,039,115 1,039,115 TOTAL (SEK) 19,553,155 373,534 5,741,871 25,668,560 Salaries and Taxable Pension 2018, SEK remuneration benefits costs1 Total Group Management Per-Olof Wedin, CEO 4,476,937 78,137 1,232,760 5,787,834 Per Matses, Deputy CEO, CFO, Acting HR Manager 2,374,349 36,885 640,016 3,051,250 Anette Waara, Head of Market Area North 1,455,094 50,045 546,298 2,051,437 Eva Karlsson Berg, Head of Market Area South 1,649,016 3,641 600,270 2,252,927 Roger S Johansson, Business Area Manager, Svenska Skogsplantor 1,387,195 34,445 391,270 1,812,910 Fredrik Klang, Head of Staff, Forestry 1,511,675 35,993 454,392 2,002,060 Viveka Beckeman, Chief Legal Officer 1,391,395 3,641 343,856 1,738,892 Helene Samuelsson, Head of Communications and Public Affairs (from 15 October 2018) 307,243 11,540 116,759 435,542 Jan Wintzell, Head of Business Development 1,369,062 38,537 421,965 1,829,564 Tommy Nilsson, Head of Staff, Forestry (until 31 January 2018) 131,695 516 36,268 168,479 Inger Thorén Emilsson, HR and Communications Manager (until 17 August 2018) 882,235 1,018 366,248 1,249,501 Other senior executives Guntars Zvejsalnieks, CEO SIA Sveaskog Baltfor (EUR) 2 79,013 79,013 SEK 809,552 809,552 TOTAL (SEK) 17,745,448 294,398 5,150,102 23,189,948 1 Pension premiums paid during the year or during the specified period. 2 EUR, exchange rate as at 31 December 2019 EUR/SEK 10,4791 (10,2458). Senior executives the equivalent of 25% of monthly salary to a pension plan including Remuneration of the CEO, other members of the Group management disability insurance; survivor's pension and waiver of premium. and other senior executives consists of basic salary, company car or annual card for public transport and pension. The Group does not offer Termination and severance pay incentive programmes or variable remuneration. In the event of termination by the company, a notice period of six months applies. In the event of termination by Hannele Arvonen, the CEO notice period is six months. In the event of termination by the company, Hannele Arvonen severance pay amounting to 12 months' salary is payable. Pay during the notice period and severance pay are offset against other income. Pension Severance pay does not include entitlement to pension or holiday pay. The retirement age is 65. In addition to pension benefits under national pension insurance (national pension), occupational pension Deputy CEO benefits are payable, which means that the company annually pays Per Matses A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 79 NOTES NOTE 8 Staff costs, average number of NOTE 10 Financial income and expense employees and sickness absence, cont. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Pension Financial income and expense The retirement age is 65. In addition to pension benefits under nationFinancial income and expense comprise interest income on bank al pension insurance (national pension), occupational pension benefits deposits, receivables and fixed-income securities, dividend income, are payable according to the ITP 1 occupational pension plan in force interest expenses on loans, unrealised and realised gains on financial at any given time. investments and derivative instruments used in the financial operations as well as exchange differences. Termination and severance pay Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities In the event of termination by the company, a notice period of six are calculated using the effective interest method. The effective intermonths applies. In the event of termination by Per Matses, the notice est rate is the interest rate that results in the present value of all future period is six months. In the event of termination by the company, sevpayments received and made during the fixed rate period equal to the erance pay amounting to 18 months' salary is payable. Pay during the carrying amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income includes notice period and severance pay are offset against other income. Sevthe accrued amounts of transaction costs and any discounts, premiums erance pay does not include entitlement to pension or holiday pay. and other differences between the original value of a receivable and the amount received on maturity. Other members of the Group management and Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment the CEO of the subsidiary in Latvia has been established. Pension The Parent Company recognises Group contributions in appropriA pension equivalent to the ITP occupational plan is payable from the ations according to the alternative rule in RFR 2 Accounting for legal age of 65. For high earners, premiums are paid as in a traditional ITP entities. occupational pension plan. For the CEO of the subsidiary in Latvia, pension terms according to Latvian law apply. Group, MSEK 2019 2018 Financial income Termination and severance pay Interest income 0 0 In the event of termination by the company, a notice period of six months applies. In the event of termination by the staff, the notice periTotal 0 0 od is 3-6 months. A senior executive who is temporarily appointed to Financial expenses Group management has a 12-month notice period on the part of the Interest expense, pensions –5 –6 company. In the event of termination by the company, severance pay amounting to 9-18 months' salary is payable. Interest expense, other -113 –107 Pay during the notice period and severance pay are offset against Impairment loss 0 –14 other income. Severance pay does not include entitlement to pension Other financial expense –14 –15 or holiday pay. One of the senior executives is not entitled to severance Currency differences 2 –1 pay. For this person, no settlement applies. Total –130 –143 TOTAL –130 –143 The financial part of the expenses for own pension liabilities has been NOTE 9 Depreciation/amortisation according to calculated using an interest rate of 0.77% (1.30). plan and impairment Parent Company, MSEK 2019 2018 Group Parent company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other financial income Depreciation/amortisation Interest income, other Group companies 19 16 according to plan Total 19 16 Intangible assets Other financial expense Capitalised expenditure on Interest expense, other Group companies –223 –201 systems development, etc. 13 3 – – Interest expense, other –84 –65 Right of use assets Other financial expense –12 –12 Right-of-use assets (see Note 7) 54 – – – Total –319 –278 Property, plant and equipment TOTAL –300 –262 Buildings 4 4 0 0 Land improvements 0 2 – – Machinery and equipment 76 74 – – Total depreciation/amortisation 147 83 0 0 NOTE 11 Taxes Group Parent company ACCOUNTING POLICIES MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes Impairment are recognised in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity, Property, plant and equipment in which case the related tax effects are recognised in other compreMachinery and equipment –2 2 – – hensive income and equity respectively. Current tax is tax payable or Total depreciation/amortisation –2 2 – – receivable in respect of the current year, applying the tax rates decided Total Depreciation/amortisation or substantively decided at the balance sheet date. This also includes according to plan and impairment 145 85 0 0 adjustment of current tax attributable to previous periods. 80 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 11 Taxes, cont. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet Difference between nominal and effective tax rate method on the basis of temporary differences between the carrying Group Parent company amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The following temporary differences are not taken into account: temporary differences Group, MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 arising from initial recognition of goodwill, temporary differences arisSwedish income tax rate –21.4 –22.0 –21.4 –22.0 ing from initial recognition of assets and liabilities that are not business Tax effect attributable combinations and at the time of the transaction did not affect either to previous years 0.0 –0.1 – – the recognised or taxable profit/loss, as well as temporary differences Tax effect of share of profit/loss in attributable to shares or participations in subsidiaries and associates associates recognised net after that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future. The valtax 0.3 1.0 – – uation of deferred tax is based on how carrying amounts of assets or Tax effect due to non-deductible liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax is calcuexpenses and non-taxable income 0.5 0.2 –73.6 – lated using the tax rates and tax rules that have been decided or subEffect of tax rate change1 0 15.1 – – stantively decided at the balance sheet date. Effective tax rate according to Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differences and income statement –20.6 –5.8 –95.0 –22.0 loss carry-forwards are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilised. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced 1) The Swedish Parliament has decided to reduce the corporate income tax in Sweden. The reduction is implemented in two stages. From 22% to 21.4% from 1 January 2019 when it is no longer considered probable that they will be utilised. and then to 20.6% as of 1 January 2021. Significant judgements and estimates Tax items recognised in other comprehensive income The valuation of deferred tax is based on how carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised. For Sveaskog, this Group Parent company means that the deferred tax liability also depends on the model MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 assumptions made in the calculation of the biological asset. Tax attributable to items recognised in other comprehensive income 6 –2 – – Current tax in Group contributions Profit after financial items provided (–)/received (+) – – – – MSEK 2019 2018 TOTAL 6 –2 – – Sweden 1,950 3,359 Other countries 13 7 Deferred tax liabilities and tax assets 1 TOTAL 1,963 3,366 Group, MSEK 2019 2018 Tax expense (-) / tax income (+) Deferred tax liability Biological assets, forest land, other land and buildings 7,468 7,351 Group Parent company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other non-current assets 26 26 Inventories 24 22 Current tax Silvicultural liability 91 84 Tax expense (-)/tax income (+) for the period –253 –241 –45 – Provision for employee benefits –1 4 Adjustment of tax expense Tax allocation reserve 421 378 attributable to previous years 0 –5 – – Replacement reserve for land 75 97 Total –253 –246 –45 – Other untaxed reserves 253 251 Deferred tax TOTAL 8,357 8,213 Deferred tax income (+)/tax Deferred tax asset expense (-) in respect of temporary differences –152 51 – – Financial instruments 10 9 Total 152 51 – – Reserves 0 0 TOTAL –405 –195 –45 – Provisions 4 7 TOTAL 14 16 Total net deferred tax liability (+)/ deferred tax asset (-) 8,343 8,197 Tax expense (-)/tax income (+) by country Recognised as Group Parent company Deferred tax asset 11 10 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deferred tax liability1 8,354 8,207 Sweden –253 –246 –45 – Net deferred tax liability 8,343 8,197 Other countries 0 0 – – Total –253 –246 –45 – 1) All changes in deferred tax have been recognised in comprehensive income, of which MSEK 6 (-2) in other comprehensive income. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 81 NOTES NOTE 11 Taxes, cont. NOTE 13 Intangible assets, Group, cont. Breakdown of deferred tax liabilities and tax assets: Estimated AmortisaIntangible assets useful lives tion rates Group, MSEK 2019 2018 Acquired and internally generated Deferred tax assets Capitalised expenditure on systems Deferred tax assets to be utilised after development, etc. 5-10 years 10-20% more than 12 months 11 10 Deferred tax assets to be utilised within 12 months – – Capitalised expenditure Deferred tax liability on systems Deferred tax liabilities to be paid after more developMSEK ment, etc. than 12 months 8,354 8,207 Deferred tax liabilities to be paid after more Cost than 12 months – – Opening balance, 1 January 2018 140 Deferred tax liabilities (net) –8,343 –8,197 Investments 34 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 174 Accumulated revaluations NOTE 12 Non-cash items Opening balance, 1 January 2018 4 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 4 Group Parent company Accumulated amortisation according to plan MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 –20 Depreciation/amortisation 145 85 0 0 Depreciation for the year –3 Capital gains/losses –39 –91 –28 –68 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 –23 Capital gains on property disposals –185 –234 – – Accumulated impairment Share of profit/loss of associates –26 –156 – – Opening balance, 1 January 2018 –31 Change in value of forest assets –399 –1,697 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2018 –31 Other –70 2 – – Closing residual values according to plan 31 TOTAL –574 –2,091 –28 –68 December 2018 124 Cost Opening balance, 1 January 2019 174 Investments 25 NOTE 13 Intangible assets, Group Closing balance, 31 December 2019 199 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accumulated revaluations Other intangible assets Opening balance, 1 January 2019 4 Other intangible assets acquired or generated internally are recognised Closing balance, 31 December 2019 4 at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses. Accumulated amortisation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2019 –23 Subsequent expenditure Depreciation for the year –13 Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is recognised Closing balance, 31 December 2019 –36 as an asset in the balance sheet only when it increases the future economic benefits of the specific asset to which it relates. All other Accumulated impairment expenditure is recognised as an expense as it arises. Opening balance, 1 January 2019 –31 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 –31 Amortisation CLOSING RESIDUAL VALUES ACCORDING TO PLAN 31 Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line DECEMBER 2018 136 basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. Amortisable intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are: NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment ACCOUNTING POLICIES Assets owned by the Group Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the company and the costs of the assets can be reliably measured. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price as well as costs directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it to the location and condition necessary for it to be used in accordance with the purpose of the acquisition. Examples of directly attributable costs are costs of delivery and handling, installation, regis82 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment, cont. tration of title, consulting services and legal services. Accounting poliBorrowing costs cies for impairment are shown in Note 1. Borrowing costs such as interest and other costs incurred that are The cost of self-constructed items of property, plant and equipment directly attributable to the purchase, construction or production of includes materials costs, employee benefit expenses, other manufaca qualifying asset are part of the cost of the asset. Other borrowing turing expenses that are considered to be directly attributable to the costs are carried as an expense. item of property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment that consist of parts with different Depreciation principles useful lives are treated as separate components of property, plant and Cost is depreciated to the residual value on a straight-line basis over equipment. the useful life, land is not depreciated. The Group applies component The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is depreciation, which means that the estimated useful lives of compoderecognised from the balance sheet on disposal or when no future nents are used as the basis for depreciation. economic benefits are expected from the use or disposal of the asset. The gain or loss arising on disposal of an asset is the difference Property, plant and equipment between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset less direct selling expenses. Gains and losses are recognised as other Estimated Depreciaoperating income/expense. useful lives tion rates 20–25 Subsequent expenditure Industrial buildings years 4-5% Subsequent expenditure is added to cost only if it is probable that the 33–50 future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Residential and office buildings years 2-3% company and the cost can be reliably measured. All other subsequent Land improvements 20 years 5% expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. Vehicles and other machinery and equipment 3–6 years 16.5-33% A decisive factor in the assessment of whether subsequent expendMachinery and other technical equipment 5-20 years 5-20% iture should be added to cost is whether the expenditure relates to the replacement of identified components, or parts thereof, in which case Assessment of the residual value and useful life of an asset is such expenditure is capitalised. In cases where a new component is performed annually. An impairment loss is recognised for an asset if created, the expenditure is also added to cost. Any undepreciated carthe carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated recoverable rying amounts of replaced components, or parts of components, are amount. disposed of and carried as an expense in connection with the replacement. Repairs are carried as an expense as they occur. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 83 NOTES NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment, cont. Other property, plant and equipment Buildings, other Machinery Construction in Total other land and land and equipprogress and property, plant Group, MSEK Forest land improvements ment prepayments and equipment Cost Opening balance, 1 January 2018 2,460 512 804 2 1,318 Investments 62 4 87 34 125 From construction in progress and prepayments, etc. – 0 2 –2 – Sales and disposals –7 –11 –118 – –129 Translation differences, etc. 0 0 1 0 1 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 2,515 505 776 34 1,315 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2018 – –323 –530 – –853 Sales and disposals – 1 104 – 105 Depreciation for the year – –6 –74 – –80 Translation differences, etc. – 0 0 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2018 – –328 –500 – –828 Accumulated impairment Opening balance, 1 January 2018 – –3 –3 – –6 Impairment losses for the year – – –2 – –2 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 – –3 –5 – –8 Closing residual values according to plan 31 December 2018 2,515 174 271 34 479 Cost Opening balance, 1 January 2019 2,515 505 776 34 1,315 Investments 213 16 90 62 168 From construction in progress and prepayments, etc. – 4 27 –31 – Sales and disposals –5 –9 –89 – –98 Translation differences, etc. – 0 1 0 1 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 2,723 516 805 65 1,386 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2019 – –328 –500 – –828 Sales and disposals – 1 64 – 65 Depreciation for the year – –4 –76 – –80 Translation differences, etc. – 0 0 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2019 – –331 –512 – –843 Accumulated impairment Opening balance, 1 January 2019 – –3 –5 – –8 Impairment losses for the year – – 2 – 2 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 – –3 –3 – –6 CLOSING RESIDUAL VALUES ACCORDING TO PLAN 31 DECEMBER 2019 2,723 182 290 65 537 84 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment, cont. NOTE 15 Biological assets, standing timber and forest land Buildings, other land ACCOUNTING POLICIES Forest and land properimproveBiological assets – standing timber Parent Company, MSEK ties ments According to IFRS, forest assets must be divided into standing timber, which is recognised in accordance with IAS 41, and land, which is recCost ognised as property, plant and equipment. Forest land is recognised Opening balance, 1 January 2018 34 20 at cost. IAS 41 means that standing timber is measured and recogSales and disposals –4 –3 nised at each reporting date at level three of the fair value hierarchy. Closing balance, 31 December 2018 30 17 Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. The quoted price in an active market provides the best basis for measureAccumulated depreciation according to plan ment of the fair value of the asset. In the absence of market prices Opening balance, 1 January 2018 – –5 or other comparable value, the biological assets shall be measured at Sales and disposals – 1 the present value of future cash flows from the assets. Sveaskog's assessment is that there is no functioning market for standing timber Depreciation for the year – 0 of the order of magnitude corresponding to Sveaskog's holdings and Closing balance, 31 December 2018 – –4 therefore there is a lack of relevant market prices (*). The fair value has CLOSING RESIDUAL VALUES ACCORDING therefore been calculated as a value determined on an earnings basis, TO PLAN 31 DECEMBER 2018 30 13 where the cash flow from future income from timber extraction less Cost felling costs, etc. has been discounted to a present value. These calculations include future timber extractions corresponding Opening balance, 1 January 2019 30 17 to a forest growth cycle (60-120 years depending on geographical Investments 6 0 location). The timber extractions are based on Sveaskog's felling and Sales and disposals –2 –1 forestry plans. Closing balance, 31 December 2019 34 16 Sveaskog has set aside large areas of productive forest land as nature conservation areas. The value of standing timber in the nature Accumulated depreciation according to plan conservation areas is not included in the value determined on an earnOpening balance, 1 January 2019 – –4 ings basis. Other value of the forest land in the form of e.g. hunting Sales and disposals – 0 income and other lease income is not included in the value determined Depreciation for the year – 0 on an earnings basis. Provision for deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 – –4 on the full value of the biological asset according to IAS 41. Deferred CLOSING RESIDUAL VALUES ACCORDING TO PLAN 31 DECEMBER 2019 34 12 tax is calculated on the difference between the carrying amount of the properties and their tax base. The carrying amount of the properties comprises the value of standing timber, the value of woodland (see Tax assessment values for Swedish properties Note 14) and other property values (see Note 14). Group Parent company * Sveaskog follows the development of possible amendments to IAS 41 among other MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Swedish forest-owning companies which prepare their financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Biological asset 57,668 57,708 699 706 Other land 536 514 27 31 Significant judgements and estimates Buildings 90 87 9 10 Sveaskog's judgement is that an active market does not exist, and neiTotal 58,294 58,309 735 747 ther, therefore, relevant market prices for standing timber for holdings the size of those of Sveaskog, and as a result, the fair value has been Recognised in the balance sheet: calculated as a value determined on an earnings basis (*). The estimated cash flow from future income from timber extractions Forest land 2,723 2,515 34 30 less felling costs has been discounted to a present value. Standing timber 33,900 33,607 – – In the Sveaskog Group, forest assets are recognised divided into Total 36,623 36,122 34 30 Timber prices 10-year index – nominal and average, SEK per m3sub 2019 average index price = SEK 481 per m3sub 2018 average index price = SEK 478 per m3sub 10-year index nominal annual prices. Price at the reporting date 2019 = SEK 530 per m3sub 10-year average 2010– Price at the reporting date 2018 = SEK 498 per m3sub 2019 % 600 550 500 450 400 350 300 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 85 NOTES NOTE 15 Biological assets, standing timber and forest land, cont. Future price trend, SEK per m3sub In 2019, Sveaskog adjusted the annual price increase from 1.7% to % 1.75%. 600 A standard cost is applied to production costs (felling costs). The standard annual cost corresponds to the average of three years 550 (outcome for the current year, previous year and budget for the coming 500 year). These costs are based on an estimated development in the years 450 2020-2120 with a nominal cost increase of 2.0% (2.0) per year. Sveaskog has set aside areas of productive forest land as nature 400 conservation areas. These areas are not included in the value of stand350 ing timber. 300 2020 2020 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 Summary of model assumptions1 2019 2018 Discount rate 5.75% 5.75% standing timber, which is recognised as a biological asset at fair value (IAS 41), and forest land, which is recognised at cost. Sveaskog has Revenues 10 year average 10 year average made the assessment that there is a lack of relevant market prices Nominal price increase 1.75% per year 1.70% per year that can be used to measure the value of forest assets of Sveaskog's Costs Standard cost¹ Standard cost¹ size. Sveaskog's measurement is therefore performed by calculating Nominal cost increase 2.00% per year 2.00% per year the present value of future expected cash flows from standing timber. Fair value measurement is performed on the basis of level three of 1) Standard cost = outcome for the current year and previous year and budget for the the fair value hierarchy (see Note 26). Cash flows are calculated for coming year. the next 100 years, which is considered to be the forest felling cycle. Cash flows are calculated on the basis of felling volumes according MSEK Standing timber to Sveaskog's current felling plan and assessments of future price and cost development. Prices are based on a rolling ten-year average Standing timber (2010-2019). In terms of cost development, the current standard cost Cost (see model assumptions below) is applied. Inflation assumptions in the model are based on estimated development in the years 2020 to Opening balance, 1 January 2018 32,054 2120. Cash flows before tax are discounted using an interest rate of Acquisition of standing timber 16 5.75 percent (5.75), which is estimated to correspond to the long-term Sale of standing timber –160 weighted cost of capital (WACC) for this asset class. In Sveaskog's Changes due to harvesting –1,229 Board of Directors’ judgement, this interest rate should describe the Changes in fair value 2,926 long-term cost of capital for an investment in forest assets and not be affected by short-term fluctuations in market rates. Closing balance, 31 December 2018 33,607 In total, Sveaskog owns 3.05 million hectares (3.07) of productive Opening balance, 1 January 2019 33,607 woodland with a volume of standing timber of 309 million m3fo (307), Acquisition of standing timber 39 of which 239 m3fo (239) on managed land. According to current felling estimates, which date from 2018 and are based on a forest optiSale of standing timber –145 misation model, felling will amount to approximately 6.3 million m3sub Changes due to harvesting –1,211 (6.3) per year. This level is expected to remain relatively unchanged Changes in fair value 1,610 until 2033. Thereafter, it is expected to increase gradually to just over Closing balance, 31 December 2019 33,900 6.8 million m3sub by 2063, before increasing further to 7.2-7.9 million m3sub by 2120. In 2019, approximately 56% (56) of volume was Forest land sold as sawlogs to sawmills was sold and 40% (41) comprised pulpOpening balance, 1 January 2018 2,460 wood sold to the pulp and paper industry. Other volume consisted of, Acquisition of forest land 62 for example, biofuel in the form of rejected branches and tree tops, Sale of forest land –7 which are primarily used as fuel wood; this volume is not included in the measurement. Closing balance, 31 December 2018 2,515 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 2,515 Timber stocks, timber extractions and timber growth, Group Acquisition of forest land 213 Sale of forest land –5 2019 2018 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 2,723 Timber stocks¹, million m³fo 239 239 Net growth¹, million m³fo 11.0 11.0 Sensitivity analysis based on key measurement parameters Timber extraction from own forests, million m³ sub 6.10 6.20 and their impact on Sveaskog's standing timber Discount rate 1) Managed land. 1 m³fo corresponds to approx. 0.82 m³ sub. A decrease in the discount rate by 0.5 percentage points will increase the value of standing timber by MSEK 4,300 (4,200). An increase in Model assumptions the discount rate by 0.5 percentage points will reduce the value of Revenue (timber prices) is based on prices based from a 10-year averstanding timber by MSEK 3,500 (3,400). age (2010-2019) and thereafter on estimated development in the years 2020-2120 with a nominal price increase of 1.75% (1.70) per Revenue (wood prices) year. A decrease in the annual price increase by 0.5 percentage points will reduce the value of standing timber by MSEK 8,900 (8,700). An 86 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 15 Biological assets, standing timber and NOTE 16 Shares and participations, cont. forest land, cont. tor's net investment in the associate. Where the share in the losses of increase in the annual price increase by 0.5 percentage points will an associate equals or exceeds its holding in the associate, additional increase the value of standing timber by MSEK 11,000 (10,700). losses are not recognised unless guarantees have been provided to cover losses incurred by the associate. The equity method is applied Costs (felling, silviculture, road and joint costs) until the date when significant influence ceases. An increase in the annual price increase by 0.5 percentage points will decrease the value of standing timber by MSEK 6,700 (6,500). ShoreLink A decrease in the annual price increase by 0.5 percentage points will Sveaskog owns 24.07% of ShoreLink and with effect from this year, increase the value of standing timber by MSEK 5,400 (5,200). ShoreLink is accounted for as an associate according to the equity method. Previously, the holding was accounted for as other company. The comparative year and the opening balance for 2018 have been restated. Other NOTE 16 Shares and participations securities held as ACCOUNTING POLICIES non-curGroup, MSEK Associates1 rent assets Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are companies in which the Parent Company Sveaskog Closing balance, 31 December 2017 599 27 AB has a controlling interest. An investor has a controlling interest in Adjustment for accounting for ShoreLink as an investee when it is exposed to or entitled to variable returns from its an associate 35 –3 involvement in the investee and is able to influence returns through its Opening balance, 1 January 2018 634 24 controlling interest in the investee. Investments – 1 Subsidiaries are recognised according to the acquisition method. Disposals – 0 According to this method, acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the assets of the Impairment – –14 subsidiary and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The conDividend –56 – solidated cost is determined through an acquisition analysis in connecShare in profit/loss of associates 2) 156 – tion with the business combination. The analysis establishes the cost Share of other comprehensive income of of the participations or business, as well as the fair value of acquired associates 18 – identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Closing balance, 31 December 2018 752 11 difference between the cost of the shares in subsidiaries and the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilOpening balance, 1 January 2019 752 11 ities comprises consolidated goodwill. If the cost is less than the fair Investments – 5 value of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, the difference is recImpairment – 0 ognised directly in the income statement. Transaction costs are recognised in the income statement. Dividend –60 – The financial statements of the subsidiary are included in the conShare in profit/loss of associates 2) 26 – solidated financial statements from the date of acquisition to the date Share of other comprehensive income of on which the controlling interest ceases. associates –6 – Closing balance, 31 December 2019 712 16 Associates Associates are companies in which the Group has a significant influ1) The holdings in Setra Group, SunPine and ShoreLink are reported according to the equity method. Participating interests in other associates are measured at cost. The ence, but not a controlling influence, over operational and financial equity method of accounting has not been applied to these holdings because of their governance, usually through participating interests of between 20% negligible significance. and 50% of the voting rights. Exceptions may exist if the Group does 2) Share of profit/loss after tax of associates for 2019 (2018) and change in the internal revenue reserve in respect of Setra. not exercise a significant influence and does not intend to exercise a significant influence. From the date the significant influence is obtained, participations in associates are recognised according to the Breakdown of income, profit/loss, assets and equity method in the consolidated financial statements. According to liabilities of associate Setra Group the equity method, the consolidated carrying amount of the shares in MSEK 2019 2018 the associates corresponds to the Group's share in the associates’ equity and consolidated goodwill as well as any residual consolidated Setra Group overvaluations/undervaluations. In the Group's income statement, the According to the company's accounts: Group's share in the associates’ net profit/loss after tax and minority Net sales 4,264 4,480 interests is recognised as “Share of profit/loss of associates” and also Profit/loss after tax –10 230 adjusted for any depreciation/amortisation, impairment or resolution of overvaluation/undervaluation of acquired assets or liabilities. Dividends Profit/loss from continuing operations –10 287 received from the associate reduce the carrying amount of the investOther comprehensive income –12 35 ment. The Group consolidates its share of associates’ other compreComprehensive income for the period –22 265 hensive income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Non-current assets 986 985 Any difference at acquisition between the cost of the holding and Current assets 1,938 1,938 the investor's share of the net fair value of the associate's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in accordance Equity 1,580 1,580 with IFRS 3 Business combinations. When the share of recognised Non-current liabilities 540 526 losses in the associate exceeds the consolidated carrying amount Current liabilities 804 817 of the participating interest, the value of the participating interest is reduced to zero. Losses are also offset against unsecured long-term financial interests that, in an economic sense, form part of the invesA N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 87 NOTES NOTE 16 Shares and participations, cont. Breakdown of income, profit/loss, assets Breakdown of income, profit/loss, assets and and liabilities of associate SunPine liabilities of associate ShoreLink MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 SunPine ShoreLink According to the company's accounts: According to the company's accounts: Net sales 1,436 1,458 Net sales 215 307 Profit/loss after tax 78 179 Profit/loss after tax 24 22 Profit/loss from continuing operations 78 179 Profit/loss from continuing operations 24 22 Comprehensive income for the period 78 179 Comprehensive income for the period 24 22 Non-current assets 517 354 Non-current assets 119 123 Current assets 462 671 Current assets 134 105 Equity 573 553 Equity 172 160 Untaxed reserves 179 90 Non-current provisions 12 12 Non-current provisions 23 13 Current liabilities 69 56 Current liabilities 204 369 Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 Cost Opening cost 24,934 24,934 Closing cost 24,934 24,934 88 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 16 Shares and participations, cont. Breakdown of shares and participations and other securities held as non-current assets Registered Participating Equity Profit/loss Carrying amount office/ Number interest %1 MSEK, for the year, MSEK, 31 Dec Corp. ID No. country of shares 2019 2018 31 Dec 2019 MSEK 2019 2019 2018 Sveaskog AB 556558-0031 Direct holdings in Group companies Hjälmare Kanal AB 556002-4472 Stockholm 5,936 100 100 2 – 3 3 Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB 556016-9020 Stockholm 95,157,179 100 100 22,839 1,344 24,931 24,931 Total directly owned Group companies 24,934 24,934 Indirect holdings in Group companies MPH Skydd AB 2) 556852-1339 Stockholm – –100 – – – – SIA Sveaskog Baltfor 40003293038 Riga, Latvia 2,500 100 100 33 13 – – Sveaskog Försäkringsaktiebolag 516401-8466 Stockholm 500,000 100 100 50 0 – – Sveaskog Timber AB 556000-1074 Stockholm 90,000 100 100 261 0 – – Group's holdings in associates Parent Company's indirect holdings Setra Group AB 556034-8483 Stockholm 25,761,671 50 50 1,580 –10 434 497 Shorelink AB 556053-7168 Piteå 18,775 24.1 24.1 172 24 41 38 SunPine AB 556682-9122 Piteå 16,685 25.1 25.1 573 78 237 217 Total associates 712 752 Group’s other securities held as non-current assets Parent Company's indirect holdings Arboreal AB 559171-8548 Umeå 12,450 24.9 24.9 – – 0 0 Arevo AB 556995-8423 Umeå 26 1.08 1.08 – – 1 1 EkoNord Invest AB 556769-8625 Krokom 7,143 14.3 14.3 – – 9 9 Swe Tree Technologies AB 556573-9587 Umeå 430,987 14.0 13.8 – – 0 0 Torsta AB 556892-2420 Krokom 200 5.0 5.0 – – 0 0 SunCarbon AB 556972-7315 Lomma 600 33.3 – – – 5 – Svensk Skogskommunikation AB 559031-9231 Stockholm 33,334 33.3 25.0 – – 0 0 Other holdings 1 1 Total of Group’s other securities held as non-current assets 16 11 TOTAL OF GROUP’S INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND OTHER SECURITIES HELD AS NON-CURRENT ASSETS 728 763 1) The voting interest corresponds to the equity interest in respect of all participations. 2) Ceased to exist due to the merger with Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB on 2 December 2019. A complete statutory breakdown of the holdings of Group companies can be found in the Annual Report submitted to the Swedish Companies Registration Office. This breakdown can be found at www.sveaskog.se. NOTE 17 Non-current receivables NOTE 18 Inventories Group Parent company ACCOUNTING POLICIES MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Interest-bearing non-current receivables course of business, less estimated costs of completion and costs associated with the sale. Receivables from Group companies – – 1,200 1,700 The cost of processed wood is fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of felling in accordance with the accounting policy for Other non-current receivables 4 3 – – biological assets. Total 4 3 1,200 1,700 Cost of inventories is calculated by applying the first in, first out Non-interest-bearing method (FIFO) and includes expenses incurred during the acquisition non-current receivables of the inventory assets and their transport to their current location and Other non-current receivables – – – – condition. Cost includes a reasonable share of indirect costs based on normal capacity utilisation. Total – – – – TOTAL 4 3 1,200 1,700 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 89 NOTES NOTE 18 Inventories, cont. NOTE 19 Trade receivables, loan receivables and other receivables, cont. Group, MSEK 2019 2018 Felling rights 6 16 Accrued felling costs for felling rights 86 99 Parent Consumables 17 16 Group company Work in progress¹ 139 127 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Finished goods¹ 328 312 Trade receivables and loan TOTAL 576 570 receivables Trade receivables 1,024 1,199 – – 1) Work in progress refers to seedlings, other plants and seed. Finished goods refer to timber stocks, rejected branches and tree tops by the roadside, fuel at terminals and Provision for doubtful trade cuttings. receivables 0 –1 – – Receivables from associates 88 113 – – Receivables from Group companies, interest-bearing – – – – NOTE 19 Trade receivables, loans and other Receivables from other Group companies – – 389 184 receivables Total 1,112 1,311 389 184 Other receivables ACCOUNTING POLICIES Prepaid expenses 53 37 9 7 Trade receivables are classified in the category financial assets measAccrued income 13 13 – – ured at amortised cost according to IAS 9. Trade receivables are iniOther current receivables 300 259 64 84 tially valued at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the Total 366 309 73 91 effective interest method. The expected maturity of trade receivables TOTAL TRADE RECEIVABLES, is short, and the value is recognised at the nominal amount without LOAN RECEIVABLES AND OTHER discounting. RECEIVABLES 1,478 1,620 462 275 In accordance with IFRS 9, an assessment is made of expected Of which financial 1,388 1,547 453 268 credit losses on loan receivables and other receivables using a 3-stage model. In stage 1, a provision corresponding to expected credit losses See Note 26 for age analysis and information on receivables past due within the next 12 months is recognised. In stage 2, an assessment is but not impaired. made whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but where there is no objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. In stage 3 there has been an incurred loss event or impairment loss by an amount corresponding to lifetime expected credit losses. NOTE 20 Equity For trade receivables, a simplified approach can be applied, whereby the Group directly reports expected credit losses for the remaining ACCOUNTING POLICIES maturity of the asset. A provision matrix may be used for this. In the Equity in the Group comprises share capital, reserves and earnings provision matrix, historical losses are adjusted for forward-looking fac(including profit for the year). Equity in the Parent Company comprises tors. These forward-looking factors are based on the estimated overall share capital, reserves, retained earnings and profit for the year. creditworthiness of the customer portfolio and forecasts for GDP in Dividends to shareholders are recognised as a liability to shareholdthe financial year and subsequent years. Impairment losses on trade ers only when the dividend has been approved by the Annual General receivables are recognised in operating expenses. Meeting. Group Share capital The number of shares amounts to 118,373,034 Class A shares with a quotient value of SEK 1. Reserves Reserves comprise hedging reserve and translation reserve. Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of a cash flow instrument attributable to hedging transactions that have not yet been completed. Translation reserve The translation reserve includes all exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in the currency used in the primary economic environment in which each entity operates (functional currency) to SEK. The Parent Company and the Group present their financial statements in Swedish krona. 90 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interestNOTE 20 Equity, cont. bearing liabilities and other financial Earned profit instruments, cont. Earned profit in the Group consists of profit for the year and earned profit in the previous year after any dividend. Classification and measurement The Board of Directors proposes a dividend. The amount of dividend is decided by the Annual General Meeting. Financial assets measured at amortised cost This category comprises receivables which arise when the company Parent company provides money, goods and services directly to the borrower and which are not intended for trading. Assets in this category are measured at Unrestricted equity amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined on the basis of the effecRetained earnings in the Parent Company consists of profit for the tive interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. For further informayear and retained earnings in the previous year after any dividend. tion, see cash and cash equivalents below and Note 19 Trade receivaThe Board of Directors proposes a dividend. The amount of dividend bles, loan receivables and other receivables. is decided by the Annual General Meeting. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Proposed appropriation of profits, SEK This category consists of other securities held as non-current assets Profits available to the Annual General Meeting: and interest-bearing non-current receivables. These are measured at fair value with changes in value recognised in the income statement SEK except when hedge accounting is applied. When hedge accounting is applied, the change in value is recognised in other comprehensive Retained earnings 6,323,283,375 income. For further information, see derivatives and cash flow hedges Profit for the year 2,363,835 below and Note 16 Shares and participations. Total 6,325,647,210 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost The Board of Directors proposes that the profit be distributed as follows: Amortised cost is determined on the basis of the effective interest rate calculated on the date the liability was assumed. This means that overSEK valuations and undervaluations are accrued over the maturity of the liaDividend to shareholder 1,100,000,000 bility. For further information, see interest-bearing liabilities below and Carried forward to the following year 5,225,647,210 Note 23 Non-interest-bearing liabilities. Total 6,325,647,210 Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss and derivatives used for hedging purposes. See derivatives and cash flow hedges below. Liabilities and derivatives are level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. For details of the different levels, NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interestsee Note 26 Financial risks. bearing liabilities and other financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, as well Cash and cash equivalents as short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are included in Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include, on the the general impairment model. The low credit risk exemption applies to assets side, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, shares, loan cash and cash equivalents. receivables, fixed income instruments and derivative instruments. EquiCash at bank and in hand consist of bank balances and investments ty and liabilities include trade payables, derivative instruments, non-curthat are readily converted to cash, the latter with maturities at the rent and current other liabilities and non-current and current interacquisition date of not more than three months. The carrying amount, est-bearing liabilities. amortised cost, is considered to be a good approximation of fair value A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance because a discount based on current market rates is not expected to sheet when the company becomes a party to the contractual provisions lead to significant differences. of the instrument. Trade receivables are recognised in the balance Short-term investments consist of commercial paper or short-term sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when bonds according to established counterparty regulations (see Note the counterparty has performed and there is a contractual obligation to 26). The investments have a maximum maturity of 12 months from pay, even if the invoice has not yet been received. A financial asset is the acquisition date and are recognised at amortised cost. Fair value derecognised from the balance sheet when the rights under the conis determined using the discounted cash flow method. The discount tract are realised, expire or the company loses control of them. The rate is the yield payable on securities with a similar credit value at the same applies to part of a financial asset. At each reporting date, the reporting date. company assesses whether there are objective indications of impairment of a financial asset or group of financial assets. Interest-bearing liabilities A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the Interest-bearing liabilities consist of financing from the banking system obligation under the contract is discharged or otherwise extinguished. via bilateral loan agreements and financing from the capital market via The same applies to part of a financial liability. Acquisitions and disposcommercial paper and bonds. Liabilities are recognised at amortised als of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the cost. The carrying amount including accrued interest is considered to date on which the company undertakes to acquire or dispose of the be a good approximation of the fair value of short-term debt instruasset. ments. The fair value of non-current debt instruments is determined Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost corresponding using the discounted cash flow method. The discount rate is based to the fair value of the instrument through profit or loss plus transacon current market rates for securities with credit value, according to tion costs for all financial instruments except those belonging to the Sveaskog, for the respective remaining maturities. When variable rate category financial asset recognised at fair value through profit or loss. are specified, the most recent variable rate based on Stibor three Subsequent recognition depends on classification as set out below. months was used for each loan as at 31 December 2019 . A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 91 NOTES Derivative instruments and cash flow hedges quivocal link to the hedged item and the hedge must effectively protect Derivative instruments include forward contracts and swaps that can the hedged item. Hedge accounting is in compliance with IAS39. be used to cover the risk of exchange rate fluctuations and exposure If hedge accounting is not applied, or if the conditions for hedge to interest rate risk. Currently, Sveaskog does not hedge exchange rate accounting are no longer met, the changes in the value of derivatives risks relating to net income. Interest swaps are used to hedge interest are recognised as income and expenses in net financial items. Accrued rate risk. interest is recognised as interest income and interest expense regardTo determine the fair value of derivatives, the discounted cash flow less of whether the derivative is hedged or not. Gains and losses on method is used. The discount rate is a market-based swap rate that is hedges are recognised in the income statement at the same time as converted into a yield curve and zero coupon curve. gains and losses for the hedged items. All of the Group's derivatives If hedge accounting is applied and the criteria for effectiveness are are covered by ISDA agreements, which allows for offsetting of assets met, changes in the value of derivatives are recognised in the stateand liabilities against the same counterparty in a credit event. Offsetment of comprehensive income. In hedge accounting, any excess inefting of assets and liabilities is not applied in these financial statements. ficient portion is recognised in the same way as changes in the value The table Consequence of offsetting right in hedging strategies of derivatives that do not apply hedge accounting, see below. In order shows this offsetting right. to meet the requirements for hedge accounting, there must be an une92 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and other financial instruments, cont. Financial assets at fair value through Financial Derivatives at Derivatives Financial other assets at fair Financial fair value used for assets at comprehenvalue through liabilities at through profit hedging Carrying amortised cost sive income profit or loss amortised cost or loss purposes amount Fair value Group, MSEK financial instruments 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities Interest-bearing non-current assets Interest rate derivatives (nom. amount MSEK 100) – – – – – – – – 3 – – – 3 – 3 – Interest-bearing other non-current receivables – – – – 4 3 – – – – – – 4 3 4 3 Total – – – – 4 3 – – 3 – – – 7 3 7 3 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 463 387 – – – – – – – – – – 463 387 463 387 Short-term investments 651 460 – – – – – – – – – – 651 460 650 460 Total 1,114 847 – – – – – – – – – – 1,114 847 1,113 847 Total interest-bearing assets 1,114 847 – – 4 3 – – 3 – – – 1,121 850 1,120 850 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities MTN (Ceiling MSEK 8,000) – – – – – – 4,382 3,888 – – – – 4,382 3,888 4,533 4,041 Bank facilities (Ceiling 4,200) – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Bond – – – – – – 800 800 – – – – 800 800 801 801 Interest rate derivatives (nom. amount MSEK 1,200) – – – – – – – – – 9 72 70 72 79 72 79 Lease liability, non-current element (see Note 7) – – 71 76 – – – – 71 76 71 76 Total – – – – – – 5,253 4,764 – 9 72 70 5,325 4,843 5,477 4,997 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper programme (Ceiling MSEK 5,000) – – – – – – 1,925 2,212 – – – – 1,925 2,212 1,925 2,212 MTN (Ceiling MSEK 8,000) – – – – – – 600 500 – – – – 600 500 604 500 Bank facilities – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Bonds – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Interest rate derivatives (nom. Amount MSEK 500) – – – – – – – – – – 3 – 3 – 3 – Utilised bank overdraft facility and overnight deposits – – – – – – 12 – – –– – 12 – – Lease liability, current element (see Note 7) – – – –– – 53 50 – – – – 53 50 53 50 Total – – – – – – 2,578 2,774 – – 3 – 2,581 2,774 2,585 2,762 Total interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 7,831 7,538 – 9 75 70 7,906 7,617 8,062 7,759 Non-interest-bearing financial instruments Non-current non-interest-bearing assets Other securities held as non-current assets (Details Note 16 Share and Participations) – – – – 16 11 – – – – – – 16 11 16 11 Total – – – – 16 11 – – – – – – 16 11 16 11 Current non-interest-bearing assets Trade receivables and other receivables 1,388 1,547 – – – – – – – – – – 1,388 1,547 1,388 1,547 Total 1,388 1,547 – – – – – – – – – – 1,388 1,547 1,388 1,547 Total non-interest-bearing assets 1,388 1,547 – – 16 11 – – – – – – 1,404 1,558 1,404 1,558 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 6 6 – – – – 6 6 6 6 Total – – – – – – 6 6 – – – – 6 6 6 6 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 93 NOTES NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and other financial instruments, cont. Financial assets at fair value through Financial Derivatives at Derivatives Financial other assets at fair Financial fair value used for assets at comprehenvalue through liabilities at through profit hedging Carrying amortised cost sive income profit or loss amortised cost or loss purposes amount Fair value Group, MSEK financial instruments 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables – – – – – – 853 902 – – – – 853 902 853 902 Other current liabilities excl. derivatives – – – – – – 78 107 – – – – 78 107 78 107 Total – – – – – – 931 1,009 – – – – 931 1,009 931 1,009 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 937 1,015 – – – – 937 1,015 937 1,015 TOTAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2,502 2,394 – – 20 14 –8,768 –8,553 3 –9 –75 –70 –6,318 –6,224 –6,475 –6,366 Reconciliation of liabilities attributable to financing activities, Group Non-cash flow events AcquisiExchange rate Changes in Adoption of MSEK 2017 Cash flow tions fluctuations fair value 2018 IFRS 16 OB 2019 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 -499 – – – 4,688 76 4,764 of which lease liabilities – – – – – – 76 76 Interest-bearing current liabilities 3,412 –689 – – – 2,723 50 2,773 of which lease liabilities – – – – – – 50 50 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 8,599 –1,188 0 0 0 7,411 126 7,537 Non-cash flow events Non-cash flow AcquisiExchange rate Changes in change in lease MSEK 2018 Cash flow tions fluctuations fair value liabilities 2019 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 4,764 438 – – – 51 5,253 of which lease liabilities 76 –56 – – – 51 71 Interest-bearing current liabilities 2,773 –195 – – – – 2,578 of which lease liabilities 50 3 – – – – 53 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 7,537 243 0 0 0 51 7,831 Interest rate terms Group at 31 December 2019 Excluding interest rate Including interest rate derivatives derivatives Nominal Nominal values MSEK Currency amount Interest rate % Nominal amount Interest rate % Interest-bearing assets Short-term investments SEK 650 0.05 Cash at bank and in hand SEK 457 -0.3 Interest-bearing liabilities 0 1 years SEK 4,655 0.7 3,355 0.47 1 2 years SEK 850 1.86 850 1.86 2 3 years SEK 450 1.1 850 2.63 3 4 years SEK 120 2.3 420 1.7 4 5 years SEK 1,240 1.39 1,340 1.5 5 years SEK 400 4.25 900 3.08 94 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and other financial instruments, cont. Consequence of offsetting right in hedging strategies 31 December 2019 Amounts recognised Nominal values MSEK in the balance sheet Assets Derivative instruments 3 Liabilities Derivative instruments 75 Offset amount 3 TOTAL AFTER OFFSET 72 Financial assets Financial liabilities at amortised cost at amortised cost Carrying amount Parent Company, MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities Non-current interest-bearing assets Receivables from Group companies 1,200 1,700 – – 1,200 1,700 Total 1,200 1,700 – – 1,200 1,700 Current interest-bearing assets Receivables from Group companies 500 – – – 500 – Total 500 – – – 500 – Total interest-bearing assets 1,700 1,700 – – 1,700 1,700 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities MTN 4,383 3,887 4,383 3,887 Bank facilities – – – – – – Bonds – – 800 800 800 800 Total – – 5,183 4,687 5,183 4,687 Current interest-bearing liabilities Commercial paper programme – – 1,925 2,212 1,925 2,212 MTN – – 600 500 600 500 Bank facilities – – – – – – Bonds – – – – – Liabilities to Group companies – – 12,811 11,957 12,811 11,957 Total – – 15,336 14,669 15,336 14,669 Total interest-bearing liabilities – – 20,519 19,356 20,519 19,356 Non-interest-bearing financial instruments Current non-interest-bearing assets Receivables from other Group companies 389 184 – – 389 184 Other receivables 64 84 – – 64 84 Total non-interest-bearing assets 453 268 – – 453 268 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to Group companies – – – – – – Other current liabilities – – – – – – Total non-interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – Total financial instruments 2,153 1,968 –20,519 –19,356 –18,366 –17,388 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 95 NOTES NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and other financial instruments, cont. Reconciliation of liabilities attributable to financing activities, Parent Company Non-cash flow events Exchange rate Changes in MSEK 2017 Cash flow Acquisitions fluctuations fair value 2018 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 –500 – – – 4,687 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14,001 668 – – – 14,669 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 19,188 168 0 0 0 19,356 Non-cash flow events Exchange rate Changes in MSEK 2018 Cash flow Acquisitions fluctuations fair value 2019 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 4,687 496 – – – 5,183 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14,669 667 – – – 15,336 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 19,356 1,163 0 0 0 20,519 NOTE 22 Provisions for pensions Defined contribution plans The pension liability is measured according to IAS 19. Actuarial Obligations primarily relate to obligations to employees linked to the gains and losses as a result of experiental adjustments and amendSAF-LO Collective Pension but also obligations to employees linked to ments in actuarial assumptions are recognised in other comprehensive the ITP 1 occupational pension plan. Obligations relating to payments income in the period in which they arise. to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the The defined benefit pension obligation is calculated annually by income statement when they arise. independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using Defined benefit plans the interest rate of mortgage bonds with the same maturity as the The obligations mainly relate to obligations to employees linked to pension liability. the ITP 2 occupational pension plan and obligations relating to penCollectively agreed vested pension rights relating to defined benesions and annuities taken over from the state in connection with the fit pension plans that are currently being earned are financed through so-called incorporation agreement under which Sveaskog Förvaltpremium payments to Alecta. Alecta is capitalised on a collective nings AB took over Domänverket’s (Swedish Forest Administration) basis, which provides a buffer for insurance obligations against flucoperations and assets with effect from 1 July 1992, and correspondtuations in return on capital and insurance risks. For employees with ing obligations taken over from the state in connection with Svenska defined-benefit pension plans administered by Alecta (ITP plan) and Skogsplantor AB’ takeover of the operations and assets of the Swedwho are not included in the high earners solution, the premiums for ish Forest Agency on 1 July 1994. The latter obligations are now also 2019 amounted to MSEK 16 (17). Also see Note 8 personnel costs, included in Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB. In addition, there are some average number of employees and sickness absence regarding reporttemporary obligations incurred in connection with rationalisation and ing of Alecta. restructuring of the business operations. Provisions for non-vested pension obligations are calculated as if The Group's recognised provisions for pensions correspond to the vesting occurs continuously even if the obligation to the creditor will present value of these pension obligations, except ITP 2. arise only when the pension becomes payable. The obligations in the balance sheet essentially relate to obligations The following tables provide an overview of items linked to the pentaken over from the state in connection with the takeover of operasion liabilities that are treated as defined-benefit and vested obligations and associated matters after the takeover dates. The obligations tions and which are included in the net cost of the benefits recognised also include non-vested obligations in respect of some employees who in the consolidated income statement. transferred in connection with the takeover in 1992and certain additional pension obligations that are not yet tax deductible. The recognised amount includes a provision to cover some deficits in obligations taken over from the state. The risks associated with the defined benefit pension plans are: • Interest rate risk: lower interest rates and thus reduced discount rate increase the liability. • Inflation risk: higher inflation increases the liability. • Life expectancy: the longer the persons covered by the plan live, the larger the obligation. • Wage increase risk means that liabilities increase in line with wage increases, but Sveaskog has no new vesting in defined benefit plans that are not ITP2. For financial risks, see Note 26. 96 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 22 Provisions for pensions, cont. Group, MSEK 2019 2018 and nominal government bonds. In this way, we can maintain the inflation assumption at Riksbanken's long-term inflation target. No adjustCarrying amount of defined benefit pension plans ment was needed in the financial year as inflation was around RiksPresent value of obligations 431 450 banken's long-term inflation target. Recognised provisions for pensions and other provisions for pensions and similar obligations 431 450 The items Other provisions for pensions and similar obligations also includes endowment insurance worth MSEK 4 (3). Changes in recognised pension provisions in 2019 and 2018 respectively Provisions 1 Jan 2019 and 1 Jan 2018 respectively 450 492 Actuarial gains/losses due to changed NOTE 23 Non-interest-bearing liabilities financial assumptions 18 2 Actuarial gains/losses due to experiential amendments 8 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Benefits paid –49 –51 Trade payables are classified in the category financial liabilities at Other changes 4 5 amortised cost. Trade liabilities are initially valued at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. HowRecognised provisions for pensions and other ever, the expected maturity of trade liabilities is short and therefore provisions for pensions and similar obligations 431 450 recognition is at the nominal amount without discounting. Net cost of benefits from defined benefit pension plans Trade payables, etc. Operating expense 10 11 Parent Group company Interest components in increase for the year of present value of pension obligations 5 6 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Actuarial gains/losses due to changed financial Current liabilities assumptions 18 2 Trade payables 845 895 – – Actuarial gains/losses due to experiential amendments 8 2 Liabilities to associates 8 7 – – Recognised pension expense 41 21 Liabilities to Group companies – – 0 0 Expected maturities of pension provisions Total 853 902 0 0 Within one year (Included in Interest-bearing current liabilities and provisions) 47 49 Other liabilities Beyond one year (Included in Provisions for pensions and Other provisions for pensions and similar Parent obligations) 384 401 Group company Total 431 450 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Derivative liabilities 72 79 – – 31 Dec 31 Dec Deferred income 26 30 – – % 2019 2018 Accrued expenses, etc. 115 111 34 30 Discount factor 0.77 1.30 Other current liabilities 61 95 6 1 Inflation index for consumer prices 2.0 2.0 Total 274 315 40 31 Income inflation 3.0 3.0 Total trade payables Future salary increases 3.0 3.0 and other liabilities 1,127 1,217 40 31 Mortality assumption DUS14 DUS14 Of which financial (excl. derivatives) 931 1,009 0 0 Sensitivity analysis discount rate A 1% increase in the discount rate means a decrease in the liability of MSEK 32 (33). NOTE 24 Other provisions A 1% decrease in the discount rate means an increase in the liability of MSEK 46 (44). ACCOUNTING POLICIES A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an existing legal Sensitivity analysis inflation or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is A 0.5% increase in inflation means an increase in the liability of MSEK likely that an outflow of financial resources will be required to settle 22 (19). the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. A 0.5% decrease in inflation means a decrease in the liability of MSEK 17 (17). Provision for resource adaptation A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed and formal Sensitivity analysis mortality/life expectancy restructuring plan is established and the restructuring has either begun An increase in life expectancy of one year means an increase in the or been publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating liability of MSEK 33 (29). expenses. Reduced life expectancy of one year means a decrease in the liability of MSEK 26 (25). Environmental provisions The expected average duration of the present value of obligations An environmental provision is recognised in the balance sheet when as at 31 December 2019 was 7.96 years (7.79). an existing legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past The discount rate is determined on the basis of the market rate on event that leads to an outflow of financial resources. mortgage bonds. Adjustment is made for any difference between real A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 97 NOTES NOTE 24 Other provisions, cont. Onerous contract Significant judgements and estimates A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when the expected Environment benefits from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfillOngoing investigations and evaluations are carried out of suspected ing the obligations under the contract. and existing environmental pollution on Sveaskog's land. Other provisions Opening Closing balance Reversed New balance Of which Of which MSEK 1 Jan 2018 provisions provisions Utilisation 31 Dec 2018 current non-current Group Provisions for resource adaptation 29 –12 10 –12 15 13 2 Provision for archive costs, historical impediments and roads and bridges 136 –5 29 –15 145 8 137 Environmental provisions 23 – 2 –1 24 2 22 Onerous contracts and other provisions 1 – 14 –10 5 1 4 Total 189 –17 55 –38 189 24 165 Opening Closing balance Reversed New balance Of which Of which MSEK 1 Jan 2019 provisions provisions Utilisation 31 Dec 2019 current non-current Group Provisions for resource adaptation 15 –2 6 –13 6 6 0 Provision for archive costs, historical impediments and roads and bridges 145 – 1 –8 138 9 129 Environmental provisions 24 – 5 –3 26 2 24 Onerous contracts and other provisions 5 – 16 –19 2 2 0 Total 189 -2 28 –43 172 19 153 Provisions for resource adaptation Reconciliation of certain balance sheet Provisions to reserve for resource adaptation in Sveaskog Förvaltnings items in the balance sheet, Group AB refer to reorganisations in 2018 and 2019. Group Provision for archive costs MSEK 2019 2018 In accordance with the incorporation agreement from 1992 between MTN, non-current element Note 21 4,382 3,888 the state and Domän AB (now Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB, SFAB), Bonds, non-current element Note 21 800 800 SFAB shall be responsible for archive costs, so-called safe storage Notes 7 and fees, relating to Domänverket's (Swedish Forest Administration) Lease liabilities, non-current element 21 71 76 documents. The documents are archived at the National Archives of Interest-bearing non-current Sweden. The undertaking is in perpetuity. liabilities 5,253 4,764 Provision for historical impediments Non-current element of other Note 24 The provision for historical impediments refers to the costs of provisions above 153 165 resolving unapproved reforestation. Other provisions (non-current) 153 165 Provision for roads and bridges Commercial paper Note 21 1,925 2,212 The provision refers to a legal obligation to maintain substandard MTN, current element Note 21 600 500 roads, bridges and dams. Bonds, current element Note 21 – – Utilised bank overdraft facility and overnight deposits Note 21 0 12 Notes 7 and Lease liabilities, current element 21 53 50 Current element of provisions for pensions Note 22 47 49 Current interesting-bearing liabilities and provisions 2,625 2,823 Note 24 Current element of other provisions above 19 24 Trade payables and other liabilities Note 23 1,127 1,217 Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions (current) 1,146 1,241 98 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES NOTE 25 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities NOTE 26 Financial risks, cont. ACCOUNTING POLICIES In order to achieve efficient management of the Group's liquidity, A contingent liability refers to a possible obligation as a result of past Sveaskog uses so-called Group accounts. events whose existence will be confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events which are not wholly within the control of the comFinancial risk pany, or an obligation arising from past events but not recognised as a Financial risk is the risk of a major borrowing requirement arising in liability or provision because the possibility of an outflow of resources a strained credit market situation. to settle the obligation is considered unlikely, or the amount of the obliIn order to ensure that the Group has access to external financing gation cannot be estimated sufficiently reliably. at all times, the finance department must ensure that confirmed bank credit lines are available. In terms of volume, these must in the first instance cover outstanding commercial paper in order to eliminate the Parent risk that these cannot be refinanced in a situation where the commerGroup company cial paper market is not functioning. MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lenders must comprise different sources of financing to avoid Pledged assets too great a dependence on an individual loan market. The Sveaskog Bank balances 0 0 – – Group's external borrowing facilities consist of a mix of bank loans and Total 0 0 – – market loans commercial paper and bonds. This means the Group is not dependent on a single source of financing. Sveaskog has not Contingent liabilities pledged any collateral for these loans. Instead, the loan agreements Guarantees for Biometria 20 20 – – include a so-called negative pledge clause, which means that no comGuarantees, other 1 1 – – pany within the Group may or is able to pledge collateral for loans or other business transactions. Guarantees for Group companies – – 418 454 The current loan portfolio consists of commercial paper and bonds. Total 21 21 418 454 Commercial paper are short-term in nature, with maturities of a maximum of 12 months, while the long-term outstanding bonds have maturities of between one and 23 years. Bilateral bank loan agreements Capital call have an average remaining maturity of 2.2 years (2.2). In 2008, the Board of Directors of Sveaskog decided to participate in According to the current financial policy, loan maturities must be the formation of EkoNord Invest AB and to contribute a total amount spread over a period of at least five years, but can be spread over a of MSEK 20. This amount was to be provided in stages in the form of longer period. Maturities within the next 12 months must not exceed drawdown from a capital call facility by EkoNord Invest AB. As at the bal20% of total loans excluding commercial paper. Above one year, ance sheet date, MSEK 16 (16) had been paid to EkoNord Invest AB. maturities must be spread as evenly as possible. At year-end 2019, In December 2019, the Board of Directors of Sveaskog decided 10% of total loans excluding commercial paper had maturities within to subscribe to a new issue in SunCarbon in 2020 in the amount of the next 12 months. MSEK 5.5. Commercial paper borrowing amounted to MSEK 1,925 (2,210), which is refinanced on a rolling basis. Borrowing under the MTN programme as at 31 December amounted to MSEK 4,990 (4,390). Sveaskog's net financial liabilities at year-end amounted to MSEK NOTE 26 Financial risks, cont. 7,149 (7,014) and their maturity structure is shown in the table Liquidity risk, maturity for financial liabilities Group. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial policy Interest rate risk The Board of Directors of Sveaskog has adopted a financial policy that For the Group, interest rate risk is the risk that cash flows due to finangoverns how the financial risks to which the Group is exposed are to cial instruments vary as a result of changes in market rates. The Group be managed. This policy is evaluated and revised once a year. Operais exposed to interest rate risk; the speed with which a trend-related tional responsibility is delegated via the CEO to the Deputy CEO/CFO change in interest rates impacts results depends on the fixed-rate periand on to the Head of Finance, who, in addition to operational responod of loans and investments. How interest rate exposure is to be mansibility, is responsible for ensuring that the finance function reports to aged is set out in the Group's financial policy and the finance function management and the Board of Directors on a monthly basis. is responsible for compliance with the policy. Financial risks refer to changes in the Group's results and cash The finance policy stipulates that the Group's loan portfolio shall flow as result of changes in exchange rates, interest rates, refinanchave an average fixed-rate period of not less than 12 months but not ing requirements and credit risks. Responsibility for reducing financial exceeding 48 months. The average fixed interest rate on net liabilities risks and carrying out current financial transactions is centralised in a at 31 December 2019 was 36.2 months (34.6)and the gross borrowgroup-wide finance function. The overall aim of the finance function is ing cost was 1.39 per cent (1.34). to ensure cost-effective financing and to minimise negative effects on Interest rate risk is managed through a balanced mix of variable and the Group's results that may arise from price changes in interest rate fixed interest rates on financing and, where necessary, interest rate and foreign exchange markets. swaps. The main purpose of interest rate swaps is to try to achieve an Of the various financial risks to which an entity may be exposed – optimal level of fixed interest rates at any given time for the Sveaskog financial risk, interest rate risk, credit risk/counterparty risk and currenGroup, taking into account the economic climate, interest rates, the cy risk – financial risk, interest rate risk and credit risk are clearly the Group’s own income statement and balance sheet and the size of the dominant risks for Sveaskog. The currency risk is relatively small. loan portfolio. The risk must be continuously monitored and measures Sveaskog, which is a forest owner and forest management compataken as necessary. ny, finances around 19% (18) of its assets through external loans. For Long-term loans with variable rates use Stibor 3 months as the referthis reason, it is considered very important to minimise both the finanence rate; it is changes in this interest rate component that are hedged cial risk and interest rate risk in this borrowing. In addition, the Group using the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group. As at 31 strives not to be dependent on individual sources of financing and to December 2019, Sveaskog had interest rate swaps with a notional valbe restrictive in its assessment of counterparties in its investments of ue of MSEK 1,800 (2,800), of which MSEK 1,700 (1,700) was hedged. surplus liquidity. All swap contracts mean that the Group receives variable interest rates while paying a fixed interest rate over the life of the swap. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 99 NOTES NOTE 26 Financial risks, cont. The swaps may be used for hedge accounting if they are effective in no previous history of payment difficulties. As at mid-January 2020, managing the risk they are intended to manage. To measure how effecMSEK 10 (2) was still outstanding. tive these interest rate swaps are in hedging exposure, the change in As at 31 December 2019, trade receivables covered by credit insurthe value of the swap is measured against the value of the loan since ance or bank guarantees amounted to MSEK 446 (514) out of a total the contract date. This is done by discounting the assessed cash flows. of MSEK 1,024 (1,199). Total exposure to counterparty risks correThis measurement does not include the effect of a change in the credit sponds to the value of the corresponding assets in the balance sheet. rating of any of the parties to the contract. The interest rate swaps used in hedge accounting are entered into at Capital management the same reference rate and maturities as the loans and have a hedge The Group's objective regarding its capital structure is to safeguard the ratio of 100%. The whole change in value of these swaps is therefore Group's ability to continue operations so that it is able to continue to recognised in other comprehensive income in accordance with the generate returns for its shareholder and benefit for other stakeholders accounting policies. If hedge accounting had not been applied, the entire and to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep down the costs of annual change in other comprehensive income would have affected the capital. Group's results for 2019 through net financial income/expense. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may The table below shows the fixed interest rate of these swaps, their change the dividend paid to the shareholder, repay capital to the owner, maturity and how hedge accounting has affected the results and issue new shares or sell assets to reduce liabilities. balance sheet through recognition in other comprehensive income The 2014 Annual General Meeting decided on new financial tarinstead of profit and loss and net financial income/expense. gets for the Sveaskog Group, which mean, among other things, that the Group must maintain a net debt/equity ratio of between 30% and Impact of hedge accounting on results and balance sheet 60%. This financial target is calculated as net interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity, calculated at the end of the period/year. Net Fixed Total Change in Notional interest change in value for interest-bearing liabilities is calculated as total borrowings (comprising Maturity value component value the year the items interest-bearing current liabilities, interest-bearing non-curTOTAL 1,700 1.056 –50 –5 rent liabilities and pension liabilities in the Group's balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as equity in 0 1 years 500 0.01 the Group's balance sheet plus net liabilities. The equity ratio as at 31 1 2 years December in 2019 and 2018 was as follows: 2 3 years 400 2.50 3 4 years 300 0.62 Group MSEK 2019 2018 4 5 years 100 1.97 Total borrowings (Note 21, 22) 8,267 7,861 5 years 400 1.02 Less: Non-current interest-bearing receivable (Note 21) –4 0 Credit risk/counterparty risk Cash and cash equivalents (Note 21) –1,114 –847 Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty in a financial transaction is Net liabilities 7,149 7,014 unable to meet its obligations. Financial risk management involves Total equity 23,574 23,145 exposure to credit risks. For Sveaskog, these arise partly in connecTotal capital 30,723 30,159 tion with investments of cash and cash equivalents, but above all in connection with counterparty risks in relation to banks when purchasNet debt/equity ratio 30% 30% ing derivative instruments. In order to be able to enter into derivative transactions with banks, Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB has concluded Age analysis past due trade receivables, gross so-called ISDA agreements with interested parties. The financial policy contains a special counterparty regulation setting out maximum credit Group exposure to different counterparties. This regulation is strict and specMSEK 2019 2018 ifies the minimum credit ratings that must apply to selected counterLess than 1 month 116 225 parties according to Standard & Poor's and Moody's rating scales. The 1 to 3 months 0 1 credit rating applied to Swedish counterparty risks of up to one year is Sweden’s Nordic Credit Rating's highest rating, K1, while for risks in 3 months and longer 1 1 excess of one year, counterparties shall have a long rating equivalent 117 227 to at least Aor A3 according to Standard & Poor's and Moody's rating scales respectively. With two exceptions, Sveaskog only has credit Doubtful trade receivables, change during the year risks involving Swedish counterparties. No credit losses were incurred Group on financial transactions in 2019. Another type of credit risk is receivables from commercial customMSEK 2019 2018 ers. The Group's two largest customers each account for more than OB provision for doubtful trade receivables –1 –1 10% percent of sales and together account for 28% (32) of total Added during the year –2 –2 sales. Credit insurance is managed according to the Group's insurance Settled/received during the year 2 2 policy, but is not applied to larger customers. Instead, an internal credCB Provision for doubtful trade receivables –1 –1 it analysis is carried out, which is followed up on an ongoing basis. As at 31 December 2019, outstanding receivables in respect of the two largest customers corresponded to 42% (35) of the Group's total trade Currency risk receivables at that date. Sveaskog has limited currency exposure. All assets are located in SweAs at 31 December 2019, satisfactory trade receivables amounted den and only a small proportion of costs are in foreign currency. Curto MSEK 995 (1,086). rently, currency hedging is not applied to commercial flows. As at 31 December 2019, trade receivables amounting to MSEK 117 (227) were past due, but not considered to be impaired. The past due receivables related to a number of customers who had 100 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 Noter NOTES NOTE 26 Financial risks, cont. Sensitivity analysis Derivative instruments In order to manage interest rate risk, the Group has in recent years The discounted cash flow valuation method is used to determine rates issued bonds with longer maturities than before in order to reduce the for interest rate swaps. The interest rate used is the market-based impact of short-term interest rate fluctuations on the Group's earnings. interest rate for interest rate swaps at the balance sheet date which is However, in the long term, lasting changes in interest rates will have an used to plot a yield curve and then converted into a zero coupon curve. impact on the consolidated results. Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets or liaAs at 31 December 2019, it is estimated that a general increase in bilities available to the entity at the measurement date. interest rates by one percentage point would reduce the Group's profit before tax by approximately MSEK 79 (75) without taking into account Level 1 For financial instruments for which quoted market prices are cash flow hedging. Taking cash flow hedging into account, which as a available, current prices are used for fair value measurement. result of hedge accounting does not affect the income statement, profit Level 2 Observable data for assets or liabilities other than quoted prices before tax is reduced by around MSEK 62 (58). A general increase in included in level 1, either directly (i.e. as quoted prices) or indirectly interest rates of one percentage point would have an adverse effect on (i.e. derived from quoted prices). Derivatives in level 2 consist of equity of SEK 62 million (59). interest rate swaps and are used for both trading and hedging purposes. Measurement of the fair value of interest rate swaps is based on swap rates obtained from a financial information system Fair value measurement and converted to a zero coupon curve for measurement. Securities Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. market data (i.e. unobservable data). Se Note 15 for information about fair value measurement. The following table shows the Group's assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at 31 December 2019 and 2018: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 3 0 Standing timber 33,900 33,607 Total assets 0 0 3 0 33,900 33,607 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 5,334 4,842 Current liabilities 2,528 2,712 Derivative instruments 0 0 75 79 0 0 Total liabilities 0 0 7,937 7,633 0 0 The table above shows the fair value of swap contracts to which hedge Valuation techniques used to measure accounting has been applied. The Group also has swap contracts that fair values in Level 3 are not hedged and where the change in value is recognised in the The valuation technique is shown in Note 15 on page 85. income statement. These swaps have a notional value of MSEK 100 and as at 31 December 2019 a fair value of MSEK 3. Issues During the year, Sveaskog issued MSEK 7,350 (7,990) under the Valuation techniques used to measure commercial paper programme and MSEK 1,100 (0) under the MTN fair values in Level 2 programme. Current liabilities are measured at book value including accrued interest which is assessed to provide a good approximation of the fair value. The fair value of non-current debt instruments is determined using measurement models such as discounted future cash flows at listed market rates for the respective maturities. Derivatives in level 2 consist of interest rate swaps recognised at market value or as hedge accounting. Measurement at fair value of interest rate swaps is based on swap rates obtained from a financial information system and converted to a zero coupon curve for the measurement. Compared with 2018, no transfers took place between the different levels in the hierarchy and no significant changes were made to the measurement method, the inputs used or assumptions. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 101 NOTES NOTE 26 Financial risks, cont. Liquidity risk Maturity for financial liabilities Group (including future interest flows) Between Between Between 12Between 24More than 0-3 months 4-12 months 24 months 60 months 60 months MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Borrowings (excluding liabilities relating to financial leases) 2,559 2,227 56 551 1,235 663 3,396 3,170 1,013 1,257 Derivative instruments 28 7 -8 21 15 26 29 49 9 26 Lease liabilities according to IFRS 16 (*) 14 11 39 39 30 36 36 37 5 3 Trade payables and other liabilities 895 956 7 23 15 12 13 16 1 2 Financial guarantee contracts – – 77 78 – – – – – – (*) Lease liability figures according to IFRS 16 for the comparative year refer to 1 January 2019. In order to secure the extension of Sveaskog's short-term liabilities but also the asset that is judged to be exposed to the single largest in the event of increased capital shortage, Sveaskog has contractstatic risk. In the event of damage, it may temporarily cause significant ed credit facilities. These credit facilities amounted to MSEK 4,200 costs for the Group, which could have a major impact on the Group's (4,200) as at 31 December 2019. The financial policy also specifies financial position. Considerable attention has therefore been paid to the proportion of the loan portfolio that may mature within 12 months. ensuring that the Group has forest insurance that covers the additional At present, a maximum of 20% may mature within 12 months. costs that may arise in connection with major damage to standing timber in the form of, for example, storm or fire. To help design appropriate Insurance policy protection and risk coverage, the Sveaskog Group owns a so-called The Board of Directors of Sveaskog has adopted an insurance policy captive, Sveaskog Försäkrings AB. Through this captive, the Group that set outs how the Group's risk management should be designed transfers the risk of damage on to the direct insurance and reinsurance and conducted. This policy is evaluated once a year. The CEO has delmarkets. The Group currently has coverage for standing timber coveregated responsibility for implementation of the policy directives to the ing cost increases of up to MSEK 2,000. The amount is partly based Head of Finance via the Deputy CEO/CFO. on experience from the storms in recent years and partly on simulaThe biological asset, standing timber, is Sveaskog's largest asset, tions carried out together with external insurance experts. NOTE 27 Significant events after the reporting period Helene Samuelsson, Head of Communication and Public Affairs, left her position in February 2020. Acting Head from and including 24 February 2020 is Viveka Beckeman. 102 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 018 SIG NATU R ES Assurance and signing of the financial statements The undersigned certify that the consolidated financial statefinancial position and results and describe the principal risks ments and annual accounts have been prepared in accordand uncertainties faced by the companies in the Group. The ance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as undersigned also submit Sveaskog's Sustainability Report for adopted by the EU, and generally accepted accounting princi2019. The Sustainability Report describes Sveaskog's susples and give a true and fair view of the financial position and tainability work and has been prepared in accordance with results of the Group and Company, and that the Group’s and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Company’s Directors’ Report provides a true and fair view of Reporting Initiative. the development of the Group's and Company's operations, Sveaskog AB (publ) (556558-0031) Stockholm, 9 March 2020. Eva Färnstrand Marie Berglund Johan Kuylenstierna Chairman of the Board Director Director Kerstin Lindberg Göransson Leif Ljungqvist Annika Nordin Director Director Director Sven Wird Kenneth Andersson Sara Östh Director Employee representative Employee representative Hannele Arvonen President and CEO Our Auditor’s report regarding the Company's annual accounts and consolidated financial statements were submitted on 9 March 2020. Deloitte AB Hans Warén Authorised Public Accountant A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 103 AU DITOR’S R E PORT Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of Sveaskog AB (publ) Corporate Identity Number 556558-0031 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND ance sheet reported forest assets amounting to SEK 33,900 million as CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2019. Sveaskog has made the judgement that there is a lack of relevant Opinion market prices that can be used to measure the value of forest assets We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated financial stateof Sveaskog's size. Sveaskog's measurement is therefore performed ments of Sveaskog AB (publ) for the financial year 1 January 2019 by calculating the present value of future expected cash flows from 31 December 2019. The Company's annual accounts and consolidated standing timber. Measurement of standing timber places high demands financial statements are included on pages 12-13, 18-21 and 30-102 on Sveaskog's measurement process and measurement models, given in this document. that it is based on assessment of future cash flows over 100 years. The In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordmeasurement is based on a number of critical assumptions regarding ance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all average felling cycle, long-term price development, long-term cost levmaterial respects, the Parent Company's financial position as at 31 els and the long-term average weighted cost of capital. Because yield December 2019 and its financial performance and cash flows for the models are based on very long periods of time, small changes can have year then ended according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The a major impact on measurement. consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance See Note 15 for a more detailed description of how the company with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mateapplies IAS 41 and the judgements made. rial respects, the Group's financial position as at 31 December 2019 Our audit included, but was not limited to, the following audit and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in procedures: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as • Mapping of the measurement process and evaluation and verificaadopted by the EU, and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The Direction of the appropriateness of implemented key controls in relation tors’ report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts to documented guidelines and consolidated financial statements. • Evaluation of the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt company's measurement by comparing previous years' assumptions the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Company and with actual outcomes the Group. • Verification of the functionality of the calculation model in terms of Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidatmathematical accuracy and the company's process for producing ed financial statements are consistent with the content of the addiinputs tional report that has been submitted to the Parent Company's Audit • Verification of inputs in the measurement model through random Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the Audit Regulation sampling (537/2014/EU). • Examination of relevant notes to the financial statements • Our valuation specialists have examined the company's documentaBasis for opinion tion regarding the long-term average weighted cost of capital, which We performed our audit in accordance with International Standards on is based on the opinion of an external specialist. We have also evaluAuditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. ated the experience and competence of the specialist. Our responsibilities under these standards are described in more detail in the section Auditor's responsibilities. We are independent of the ParCompleteness of revenue recognition ent Company and the Group in accordance with professional ethics for Sales of sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel are transaction-intensive, accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responwhich places high demands on accounting, follow-up and internal consibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, to trol. Every day, a large number of felling assignments are carried out the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to on own account and for other forest owners, and deliveries are made in the Audit Regulation (537/2014/EU) Article 5.1. have been provided continuously to end customers. Strict requirements therefore apply to to the audited company or, where applicable, its Parent Company or its support systems to ensure correct handling in terms of measurement controlled companies within the EU. of volumes, reconciliation of delivery data and pricing based on conWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient tracted prices. and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. See Note 4 for a description of the revenue recognition principles. Our audit included, but was not limited to, the following audit measures: Key Audit Matters • Mapping of significant transaction flows for revenue and critical Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesbusiness systems and evaluation of whether the company's key consional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual trols to manage the risk of errors in financial reporting are appropriaccounts and consolidated financial statements for the current period. ately designed and implemented These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in • Our IT auditors have specifically examined general IT controls forming our opinion on, the annual accounts and consolidated financial regarding permissions and management of changes in the system statements as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on environment these matters. • Examination of the company's revenue recognition procedure with focus on (1) inputs in timber administration systems, (2) completeValuation of forest assets ness of transmission between or data extraction from systems and Standing timber accounts for 82% of the Group's assets and is there(3) examination of accounting documents and reconciliation with fore the most significant asset in terms of quantity. The Group's balactual invoicing • Random sampling of revenue transactions for verification that these 104 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 were priced according to current customer agreements and that REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND revenue was recognised in the period in which Sveaskog discharged REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS its obligations • Implementation of register analysis for examination of the Opinion completeness of the flow from the timber administration system and In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated finanrecognition in the financial statements cial statements, we have also audited the administration of the Board • Analytical review of reported revenue on a monthly basis and of Directors and CEO of Sveaskog AB (publ) for the financial year 1 development of revenue and margins at segment level to identify January 2019 31 December 2019 and the proposed appropriations significant fluctuations for further investigation. of the company's profit or loss. We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be Information other than the annual report appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Directors’ Report and consolidated financial statements and that the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be disThis document also contains information other than the annual charged from liability for the financial year. accounts and consolidated financial statements and is contained on the pages that do not include the annual accounts, the sustainability Basis for opinion report or the corporate governance report. The Board of Directors and We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditthe CEO are responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under these standards annual accounts and consolidated financial statements does not covare described in more detail in the section Auditor's responsibilities. er this other information and we do not express any form of assurance We are independent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordconclusion regarding this other information. ance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidatotherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these ed financial statements, our responsibility is to read the information requirements. identified above and to consider whether the information is materially We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated financial stateand appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. ments. In this review, we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO wise appears to be materially misstated. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaIf, based on the work performed concerning this information, we tions of the company's profits or loss. When proposing a dividend, this conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaincludes assessment of whether the dividend is justified considering tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in the requirements that the company's and the Group's nature of busithis regard. ness, scope and risks place on the size of the Parent Company's and the Group's equity; consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO general. The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the prepaThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organisaration of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements tion and administration of the company's affairs. This includes, among and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Swedish other things, continuous assessment of the company's and the Group's Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated financial statefinancial situation and ensuring that the company's organisation is ments, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of designed so that accounting, asset management and the company's Directors and the CEO are also responsible for such internal control financial affairs are otherwise controlled in a reassuring manner. The as they determine is necessary to enable to the preparation of annuCEO shall manage the ongoing administration in accordance with the al accounts and consolidated financial statements that are free from Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other things material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. take any measures necessary to ensure that the company's accounting In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated financial stateis carried out in accordance with legislation and asset management is ments, the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the managed in a reassuring manner. assessment of the company's and the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters that may affect the Auditor's Responsibilities ability to continue as a going concern and use the going concern basis Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and therefore of accounting. However, the going concern basis of accounting is not our opinion on discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence in applied if the Board of Directors and the CEO intend to liquidate the order to achieve reasonable assurance as to whether any member of company, cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so. the Board of Directors or the CEO in any material respect: The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall, without preju• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which may dice to the Board's responsibilities and tasks in general, among other result in the company incurring liability for damages, or things oversee the company's financial reporting process. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Auditor's Responsibilities Association. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole are Our objective concerning the audit of the proposal for appropriations free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to of the company's profit or loss, and therefore our opinion on this, is to submit an audit report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurachieve reasonable assurance as to whether the proposal is consistent ance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit with the Swedish Companies Act. conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when administration can be found on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considwebsite: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description ered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be is part of the Auditor’s report. expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Deloitte AB was appointed auditor of Sveaskog AB (publ) by the Annual A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annuGeneral Meeting on 24 April 2019 and has been the company's auditor al accounts and consolidated accounts can be found on the Swedish since 23 April 2015. Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the Auditor’s report. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 105 AU DITOR’S R E PORT AUDITOR'S EXAMINATION OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Governance a ­ uditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has Report on pages 49-53 and for ensuring that it has been prepared in provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Our examination A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. Disclosures was conducted according to FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The in accordance with Chapter 6 Section 6 second Paragraph point 2-6 auditor's examination of the Corporate Governance Report. This means of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7 Section 31 secthat our examination of the Corporate Governance Report is different ond paragraph of the same law are consistent with the other parts of and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordthe annual accounts and consolidated financial statements and are in ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, 9 March 2020 Deloitte AB Hans Warén Authorised Public Accountant 106 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT Notes to the Sustainability Report NOTE S1 About the Sustainability Report Sveaskog has prepared a Sustainability Report for the period 1 JanTo help us identify the issues where Sveaskog as a company has the uary 31 December in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative largest impact, and which are most important to the company’s external (GRI) Standards for sustainability reporting. The Sustainability Report and internal stakeholders, the work is based on a materiality assessment comprises pages 14-17, 22-27, 107-113 and has been reviewed by the processed in the Sustainability Council. First, all GRI Standards have been auditing firm Deloitte AB. assessed for their significance to the sustainability aspects that Sveaskog The signing of the Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2019 by has identified as material and where the impact is greatest, within or outthe Board of Directors and the Auditors' report are presented on page side the company. Based on the identified aspects, the different aspects 100 and page 101 respectively. have been assessed by the Sustainability Council for inclusion in reporting. Sveaskog has reported on value added generated annually in the company from a multidimensional sustainability perspective in monetary Boundaries terms. The model and method used are called <Integrated Profit and The information comprises the entire Sveaskog Group, unless otherLoss>TM and are described in more detail in Note S2. wise stated. The Group includes the wholly owned subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group Setra Group AB is 50% owned by Application of GRI Standards Sveaskog AB and is not included in the Sustainability Report other GRI is a collaborating body of the United Nations Environment Prothan the share of the financial results of Setra Group AB that impacts gramme. The organisation has produced global guidelines for how Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB's results. Sveaskog has two members on companies should report issues that fall under the concept sustainable Setra Group AB's Board of Directors and thus has an impact on Setdevelopment. See www.globalreporting.org for a complete presentation ra's sustainability work. of GRI Standards. Sveaskog applies GRI Standards application level Core in its reportGlobal Compact ing. A transition from the fourth version (GRI G4) took place in 2017. Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2005, Sveaskog recognises achieved results for the reporting period in the and thereby takes a clear stance on issues relating to human rights, context of commitments, strategies and sustainability management. labour, environmental responsibility, the right to form trade unions and The aim is to present, measure and take responsibility towards stakeanti-corruption. The Global Compact is derived from the Universal Decholders, both within and outside the company, for what has been laration of Human Rights, the Precautionary Principle of the Rio Declaachieved in the work on sustainable business practice. ration on Environment and Development, which means that Sveaskog GRI Standards is implemented in the internal work on sustainability commits to working proactively to minimise environmental risks issues and the information in the disclosures meets GRI criteria for Unithroughout the company, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Prinversal Standards. All disclosures in accordance with GRI Universal Standciples and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines ards are published in a GRI index on our website www.sveaskog.se. for the responsible business conduct of multinational companies. For more information about Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org. Process for GRI Standards Sveaskog is taking measures to ensure these principles are reflected Sveaskog's aim is to provide a comprehensive account of sustainabilin the business in practice. A Communication on Progress reported ity work which clearly identifies both negative and positive business is submitted annually to the Global Compact, together with a presentaimpacts. Our commitments through certification and various membertion of GRI indicators that link to the principles. ships, including FSC® and Global Compact, are of great importance for our sustainability work. NOTE S2 Multidimensional value creation – Integrated Profit and Loss The <IP&L>TM evaluation model involves holistic and integrated evalronmental and social impacts where Sveaskog relies on available busiuation in monetary terms of the company's impact and value creation ness data, data provided by external parties and information, assumpthrough four different types of capital. The model was developed by tions and qualified estimates produced by GIST Advisory in connection the internationally renowned sustainability economist Pavan Sukhdev with the establishment of Sveaskog's IP&L. There is also uncertainty and his team GIST Advisory. The four types of capital are Financial, about Sveaskog's share of the effects presented, which are based on Social, Human and Natural Capital, and the result is an illustration of assumptions from Sveaskog. the company's overall positive and negative impact. The values are It should be noted that this is a first step towards reporting accordbased on data from 2016, aside from financial capital, which is updated ing to this model with the boundaries and assumptions required for with data from 2019. implementation. The model can and should be refined over time. We have chosen to work using this model, which has high scientifThe methodology, IP&L™, highlights the company's value added in ic relevance; other models may exist that do not produce an identical terms of ecosystem services and public benefit, in addition to the ecooutcome. nomic value of timber production. It comprises the company's various All the data produced is associated with some uncertainty. This is types of impact and contributions in areas related to climate and water due to scientific uncertainty concerning measurement methods, but as well as land use and social values. The calculation also includes also to the uncertainty of the data to which the measurement methods negative impacts such as the business's greenhouse gas emissions. are applied. In particular, this concerns measurement of indirect enviAn illustration of the evaluation model is shown on pages 24-25. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 107 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S2 Multidimensional value creation – Integrated Profit and Loss, cont. Examples included Capital Positive impact Negative impact Examples not included Sample reference Financial Capital Taxes Contribution to GDP at Interest contractor level Depreciation Social capital Recreation Working environment at (Fredman 2013, Friluftsliv i förändring) contractor level Hunting, fishing, Engelman, Marc, Carl-Johan Lagerkvist, and Ing-Marie berry picking Gren. 2016. Hunting value of wild boar in Sweden: A choice experiment. Road construction Environmental impact Carfax. 2017. Total length of the road network in Sweden accessibility of road construction in 2015, https://www.statista.com/statistics/ 449993/ sweden-length-of-road-network-by-road-type Human capital Training Health impact of air Health and safety of Wage trend pollution contractors Pensions Natural capital Carbon dioxide Emissions of Impact on biodiversity Carbon dioxide capture and storage UN climate panel, capture and storage greenhouse gases (IPCC 2006); Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases, United States Government. 2016. Water regulation Ground impact (Zhang Biao 2010, Water conservation in forest of felling ecosystems); EEA. 2015. Values from water retention potential of forests. A brief report of the analysis is published on Sveaskog’s website https://www.sveaskog.se/globalassets/hallbarhet/public-session---integrated-profit--loss-ipl.pdf The full list of references can be found at sveaskog.se NOTE S3 GRI disclosures, where impact occurs and examples of initiatives in 2019 that increased or reduced impact Examples of initiatives that have increased or reduced impact for the most significant aspects of sustainability are given below, together with information on where the impact mainly occurs. The complete GRI Index can be found at www.sveaskog.se. Where impact mainly Examples of initiatives in 2019 that increased or reduced impact Sustainability aspect occurs Confidence Networking meetings with state-owned companies, dialogues with Supplier assessments with Within and outside the nature conservation organisations, consultations with Sami villages regard to the environment, company and meetings in local communities. employee rights, human rights Conservation value assessment in connection with logging notificaand social impact. tion posted online. Campaign to highlight our ecoparks, A new contractor strategy for improved cooperation with contractors Financial Higher prices, improved results in the Svenska Skogsplantor Financial performance. Within and outside the performance business area company Climate impact Shared ownership of SunCarbon, which produces renewable lignin Energy, Emissions, Outside the company oil, cooperation with Volvo on heavy goods vehicles, fuel Financial performance procurement that allows for extra mix of environmental fuel. Customer “Precision Hunt” competition for forestry machine teams for increased Labelling of products Within the company satisfaction value creation in measurement and quality. and services. New logistics solutions after storm Alfrida Biodiversity Recreation of natural shore zones along the Mörrum River and Biodiversity Within and outside the burning for nature conservation purposes in Västerbotten, Transparency company Conservation value assessment in connection with felling notification posted online. Gender equality, Support for contractors in the form of training in gender equality, Employment, Occupational Within and outside the diversity and skills diversity and inclusion, cooperation with the Scouts on diversity and health and safety, Skills company supply inclusion, cooperation with the Mitt Liv (Chance of a Lifetime) development, Diversity and mentoring programme for people with foreign background and an gender equality. academic degree, Svenska Skogsplantor ceases chemical control of pine weevils. 108 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S4 Stakeholder dialogues Sveaskog conducts structured and documented dialogues with stakeholders. This overview shows the issues covered in dialogue with ten key stakeholders, the action taken by Sveaskog in these areas and dialogue opportunities. Issues 2019 What action is Sveaskog taking? Dialogue opportunities in 2019 Customers Product quality, prices, efficient logistics, FSC®certification, market prices, Code of Business discussions, forest days, renewable vehicle fuels, technology Conduct, measuring delivery precision, collaboration on sustainability reporting, development, FSC® and traceability, participating in the development of new online survey. sustainability, reliability, long-term fossil-free fuels, traceability of wood. relationships, climate issues. Owner Meeting financial targets, sustainable Initiatives to meet financial targets, goals Annual General Meeting, Board meetings, business, work with human rights, and strategies for sustainable business, dialogue with the Chairman of the Board, stakeholder dialogues and confidence in clearer reporting of and processes around the Swedish Government Offices and Sveaskog, 2030 Agenda. the work on the 2030 Agenda, accounting Members of Parliament, networking for multidimensional value creation. meetings with state+owned companies, online survey. Lending Economic development, financial stability, Financial targets, financial policy, prioritising Online survey, business discussions, institutions, sustainable business, new business long-term business relationships and information meetings. lenders opportunities. customers with profitability potential, green bond issues. Employees Skills development and livelihood, Internal training, internal mobility, active Employee discussions, cooperation with confidence, gender equality, employeeship recruitment, working environment efforts, trades unions, workplace meetings, and leadership, working environment and and development of the organisation. employee engagement survey VIS . health and organisation. Contractors Well-developed and long-term partnerships, Long-term partnerships, partner contractor, Business discussions, follow-up, field renewable energy, sustainable forestry, cooperation projects, information and inspections, in-depth checks of around ten contractual and remuneration issues, evaluations, Code of Conduct, service contractors. training and working environment, skills statement, requirement for framework supply and the attractiveness of the forest suppliers to comply with the UN Global industry, traceability and certification. Compact, PEFC certification requirements, daily inspections of transport licences, etc, Swedish Tax Agency checks, new contractor strategy. Timber suppliers Ability to pay, long-term partnerships, market Good liquidity, market prices, FSC®planning FSC®cooperation, forest days, business prices, renewable energy, quality of felling for felling assignments, involvement in the discussions. assignments, skills supply, sustainable development of new, fossil-free fuels, forestry, information about Sveaskog's information activities. operations, technology development. Tourism Granting land concessions, lease prices, Leases, investments in outdoor recreation Elk management meetings, hunt leaders companies, forest and land for outdoor activities, impact areas and ecoparks, roads and signs, maps meetings, consultations, business hunters, of forestry on outdoor activities, grazing and information on the website. discussions, continued development of fishermen, damage. short-term hunting and increased number etc. of destinations, online survey. Reindeer industry Rights of indigenous peoples, considerate Formalised consultations, better information Consultations on forestry measures in Sami forestry measures and concessions that do for maps, land use development projects. villages, cooperation within FSC in Sweden, not affect winter grazing of reindeer – online survey. coexistence with others on our land. Authorities Swedish Forestry Act, national Annual audits, business management Consultations on ecoparks. environmental objectives, inventory of key systems, follow-up of targets and biotopes. performance measures. Nature Biodiversity, nature conservation, openness Targets for sustainable business, Excursions, correspondence, dialogue conservation and transparency. environmental goals, FSC®membership, meetings in Almedalen, consultations and organisations nature conservation strategy, development dialogue meetings in local communities, of model for measuring and monitoring online survey. biodiversity, cooperation with Järv zoo. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 109 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S5 Environment and nature conservation Sveaskog's nature conservation set-asides may take the form of forregion includes an additional 34,000 hectares of ecoparks, all of which mally protected areas or voluntary set-asides. Sveaskog has chosen are set aside as nature conservation areas. to manage 20% of its productive forest land as nature conservation With the present approach, consideration for nature areas in producareas. The target of 20% applies to forests below the montane forest tive forests will in the long term amount to 220,000 hectares. Of this region. This is achieved in three different ways: ecoparks, high conarea, 51,000 hectares have so far been left untouched as consideraservation value forests and so-called areas of consideration for nature tion for nature areas in connection with felling. The remaining 169,000 which are left untouched in productive forests. hectares will be added in future planning for felling. The ecoparks comprise a total of 140,000 hectares of productive In the montane forests, Sveaskog has set aside around 80,000 woodland below the montane forest region, of which 80,000 hectares hectares for nature conservation, of which 30,000 hectares are are set aside as high conservation value forests. The montane forest located in ecoparks. Nature conservation areas below the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 December 2018 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Ecoparks 37 ecoparks have been 80,000 hectares Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreements with created. Ecopark agreements County Administrative Boards the Swedish Forest Agency with the Swedish Forest and annual management Agency are in place for all of meetings these ecoparks High conservation value forests Reported on Swedish Forest Agency, Forest Agency www.sveaskog.se County Administrative Boards County Administrative All are continuously quality Boards assured in the field. Consideration for nature in Control monitoring of 220,000 hectares Swedish Forest Agency Methodology development productive forests Environmental considerations monitoring, FSC® audit with Swedish Forest 51,000 hectares (99% target) Agency Of which Consideration for 169,000 hectares nature in felling Of which Consideration for nature in future planning for felling Sveaskog's total nature conserva600,000 hectares tion area below the montane forest region Nature conservation in the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 December 2018 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog's montane forest region Nature reserves and 80,000 hectares Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with the Swedish boundary is based on the Swedish ecoparks have been created The County Administrative Forest Agency Forestry Act and FSC® and quality assurance of high Boards, FSC® audit conservation value forests is underway Sveaskog's total nature conserva680,000 hectares tion area including the montane forest region 110 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S6 Environmental data Employee data Refers to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise stated. All 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employees accounted for have employment contracts with the Group. Production Because the number of contractors hired varies during the year, these are not included in the audit. All deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,748 10,684 10,817 10,995 10,648 Deliveries from own forest, thousand m3sub 6,570 6,459 6,463 6,177 6,128 NOTE S7 Number of employees Supplies of biofuel, thousand m3sub 868 780 599 527 571 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption Permanent employees 688 674 685 682 682 Non-renewable Average number of fuels, TJ 1,519 1,374 1,535 1,611 1,334 employees, including temporary employees1 851 844 846 840 807 Renewable fuels, TJ 233 243 209 199 380 Number of permanent Indirect energy blue-collar workers 282 240 234 229 216 consumption, MWh 9,136 8,528 8,191 8,335 8,091 Number of permanent Emissions to air1 salaried employees 406 434 451 453 467 Fossil CO2, thousand Proportion of part-time tonnes 146 126 1125 115 1226 /permanent employees, % 1.3 1.5 3.4 2.1 1.9 Of which direct Proportion of full-time emissions, thousand /permanent employees, % 98.7 98.5 96.6 97.9 98.1 tonnes 14 13 95 10 11 Number of managers with Of which indirect reporting staff 96 95 92 77 79 emissions, Scope 2, Average age, years 48 47 47 47 45 thousand tonnes 0.052 0.049 0.042 0.042 0.085 Employees in different Of which indirect age groups emissions, Scope 3, thousand tonnes3 132 113 105 105 111 –29 92 95 101 90 51 30–49 336 344 347 352 319 Land 50– 423 407 398 398 313 Total land area, million ha 4 4 4 4 3.9 Proportion recruited internally, % 64 70 68 72 51 Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.0 Proportion of employees with non-Swedish Proportion of total background, % 3.3 2.9 3.1 3.9 growth that is unfelled, %4 36 36 34 37 38 1) Total hours worked/1,650. 1)  Sveaskog reports the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide and complies with the GHG Protocol guidelines ( Greenhouse Gas Protocol). Calculations of CO2emissions are based on ISO14001:2004, 14040:2004 and GWP according to IPCC 2007 and The number of full-time and part-time employees is not reported for 2013. temporary employees. The majority of temporary employees work 2) With effect from 2014, reporting includes both production and distribution of fuel in full-time. A proportion of temporary employees are employed on zeroemission calculations, which means that carbon dioxide emissions increased. hours contracts, which means that they work a number of hours as 3) Scope 3 includes felling, transport by road, sea and rail, road construction, silviculture needed. At times the hours worked correspond to full time working and and business travel. at other times they work less. 4) Including unmanaged forests. 5) Values for 2017 have been corrected due to refined measurement methods. A corresponding adjustment has not been made for 2014-2016. NOTE S8 Number of permanent employees 6) Plant transport CO2 emissions of approx. 300 tonnes have been factored in for 2019. by market area 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 North 1 215 180 221 244 243 Central 1/2 247 250 241 – – South1/2 141 158 134 339 339 Stockholm3 55 56 57 59 59 Latvia/Lithuania 29 29 31 39 41 Finland 1 1 1 1 1 1) Including employees in staff functions stationed in the respective market areas. 2) The Market areas South and Central merged in 2018 to form the new Market area South. 3) Stationed at the head office in Stockholm. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 111 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S9 Employee breakdown NOTE S12 Proportion of employees receiving regular performance and career 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 development appraisals Women, %1 21 21.6 24 24.3 26.1 Men, %1 79 78.4 76 75.7 73.9 The employee performance appraisal is a strong and effective tool in terms of adherence to Sveaskog's vision and goals, because it provides Women 67 57 50 60 57 /men on the Board, %2 /33 /43 /50 /40 /43 an opportunity to communicate goals, plans and goal attainment. These appraisals also enable managers to identify employees' training needs Women/men in Group 45 40 40 44 64 management, % /55 /60 /60 /56 /36 in their position as well as any ambitions for further development. Sveaskog's goal is that all permanent employees should have at Female managers, % 24 24 27 313 30 least one performance appraisal in a 12-month period and that the 1) Average number of employees. appraisal should be of high quality. In order to create opportunities 2) Elected by the Annual General Meeting. for good quality, all managers are offered training in employee perfor3) Refers to Sweden mance appraisals. Supporting documents and checklists are available to assist in conducting appraisals. The years of birth of members of the Board and members of the According to the most recent employee engagement survey VIS Group management are shown in the presentations on pages 56-59. 2019, performance appraisals had been conducted with a total of 90% of all permanent employees in the preceding 12 months. NOTE S10 Relationship between men's and women's salaries NOTE S13 Sickness absence 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Blue-collar workers 23 19 20 20 20 Women/men, number /241 /203 /196 /187 /171 Sickness absence, total, % 2.5 2.7 3.1 3.0 3.0 Women’s median salary Sickness absence women, in relation to men’s, % 87 85 85 85 86 % 3.4 3.2 4.2 4.7 5.1 Salaried employees 115 128 137 147 151 Sickness absence men, % 2.2 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.3 Women/men, number /279 /294 /300 /288 /299 Long-term sickness Women’s median salary absence, % of total in relation to men’s, % 97 97 96 95 99 sickness absence 34.5 45.6 50 47.5 47.4 Long-term healthy, %1 36.1 35.2 33 32.9 32.6 The comparison above does not take into account the fact that Reported occupational different requirements apply to different positions, and only provides injuries2 an overview of the salary structure by contract area. Salary information /1,000 man-years 3.5 5.9 8.3 13.1 9.1 and the number of employees refer to permanent employees in Total days absent (working Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). days) due to occupational injuries3 14 41 116 245 98 Sickness absence due to occupational injuries, % 0.008 0.02 0.07 0.15 0.06 NOTE S11 Employee turnover 1) Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence in the last two years. Employees of SIA Sveaskog Baltfor are not included. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2) Occupational injuries: accidents, travel accidents, occupational diseases which at the Total, % 5.5 7.0 7.7 10.6 11.7 time of reporting are expected to lead to absence. Minor injuries at first aid level are also included. Contractors' occupational injuries are not included in these figures. Occupational injuries are recorded in the SKIA tool. SKIA is the forest industry's information system on working environment provided to the industry by AFA Women/men By age group By market area insurance. Any occupational injuries in Baltfor are not recorded in SKIA and are therefore not included in the calculation. However, the average number of employees Joined Left Joined Left Joined Left includes employees in Baltfor. Accidents by region are not reported, but follow-up takes place in the local safety committees in each market area. There were no fatal 29/56 20/60 –30 21 10 North 34 32 accidents during the year. 30–50 52 34 South1 35 40 3) All days of absence on planned working days commencing two days after accident. Employees of Baltfor are not included. 50– 12 36 Stockholm 11 6 Baltfor 4 2 Finland 0 0 1) The Market areas South and Central merged in 2018 to form the new Market area South. 112 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NOTES TO TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORT NOTE S14 Average number of hours of training NOTE S18 Competitors per employee and year by employee Sveaskog's competitors in the market for wood raw material include: category1 Bergvik Skog, Holmen, SCA, the Swedish Forest Society Foundation, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 forest owner associations, the Church of Sweden and Sydved. Some of the companies that are competitors in the marked for Number of training hours, blue-collar workers, average 52 48 43 39 57 wood raw material may also be customers of Sveaskog when purchasing pulpwood or seedlings. The same companies can also be suppliNumber of training hours, salaried employees, average 35 31 39 29 41 ers when Sveaskog purchases wood raw material to meet customer demand. Key ratio training hours/ employees, days 5.4 4.9 5.1 4.2 6.0 Key ratio training hours/ employees, hours 43 39 41 33 48 NOTE S19 Post-issuance report under the green bond framework 1) Average number of employees. For more information, see the separate report Post-issuance report Sveaskog's green bonds at www.sveaskog.se NOTE S15 Proportion of workforce covered by In 2017, Sveaskog established its framework for green financing and collective agreements in 2019 green bonds worth SEK 1,100 million were issued. No further issue took place in 2018. In Sweden, 100% of employees are covered by collective agreements. Employees of the subsidiary SIA Sveaskog Baltfor, whose registered 2019 2018 office is in Riga, Latvia, are not covered by collective agreements. The Total costs Total costs proportion of the Group's employees covered by collective agreements Project incurred incurred category (SEK thousand) (SEK thousand) is 96%. Entire according to allocated to the allocated to the Sveaskog framework green bond green bond Sustainable NOTE S16 Incidence of victimisation forestry 924,950 0 Research and Our Code of Conduct and Employee Policy clarify our development 8,000 0 position on discrimination. We must show each other respect and there Acquisition of is no place for discrimination in our workplaces. Sveaskog does not property 167,050 0 tolerate any form of victimisation. Victimisation is action directed at Total green bond one or more employees in an offensive manner and which may lead issue 1,100,000 0 to ill health or the victim being excluded from the community of the workplace. Employees are required to comply with the Code of Conduct and managers are responsible for compliance with the Code in daily activities. Employees or stakeholders who believe that Sveaskog is in violation of the Code of Conduct can report this. These breaches can be reported to the Chief Legal Adviser or the HR Manager as well as via a whistle-blower function on Sveaskog's website. We must intervene in cases of victimisation, taking strong action according to legislation and Sveaskog's internal guidelines. To prevent discrimination, we have specific measures in place, for instance guidelines for recruitment and guidelines against victimisation. One case of victimisation was reported in 2019. An investigation into the incident has been carried out. The employee engagement survey 2019 showed that the proportion of employees who felt that they have been subjected to some form of victimisation by an internal colleague/manager had increased from 6% to 8% since 2017. This is something that is followed up in the employee engagement survey, which is carried out every two years. NOTE S17 Certification Sveaskog has been awarded the following certifications: FSC® forest management certification for own forests and Group FSC® Chain of Custody certification PEFC® Chain of Custody certification PEFC Forest Management certification Group ISO 14001 AEO certification for customs simplifications/security and safety Sveaskog's FSC license number is FSC-C008344 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 113 AU DITOR'S R E PORT ON SUSTAI NAB I LITY R E PORTI NG Auditor's Limited Assurance Report on Sveaskog AB's (publ) Sustainability Report and Statement on the Statutory Sustainability Report To Sveaskog AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 12 Auditor's Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. A 556558-0031 limited assurance engagement and review according to RevR have a different focus and are substantially less in scope than Introduction an audit conducted in accordance with International StandWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Sveaskog ards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Sweden. Sveaskog AB's Sustainability Report for 2019. The company The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on page Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive 2 of this document, and the Statutory Sustainability Report is system of quality control including documented policies and defined on page 60. procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and management requirements. We are independent of Sveaskog AB in accordThe Board of Directors and management are responsible for ance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and the preparation of the Sustainability Report, including the Stathave otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordutory Sustainability Report, in accordance with the applicable ance with these requirements. criteria and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act respectiveThe procedures performed in a limited assurance engagely. The criteria are defined on page 107 in the Sustainability ment and review according to RevR 12 do not allow us to Report, and consist of the parts of the Sustainability Reporting obtain such assurance that we become aware of all signifiStandards published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that cant matters that could have been identified had a reasonable are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the comassurance engagement been performed. The stated conclupany's own established accounting and measurement princision based on a limited assurance engagement and review in ples. This responsibility also includes the internal control relaccordance with RevR 12 therefore does not have the same evant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free level of assurance as a stated conclusion based on a reasonamaterial misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. ble assurance engagement. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Auditor's Responsibilities Board of Directors and management as described above. We Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainabilconsider these criteria to be suitable for the preparation of the ity Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have Sustainability Report. performed and to provide a statement on the Statutory SustainWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient ability Report. Our engagement is limited to reported historical and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. information and does not include forward-looking information. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordConclusion ance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Based on the limited assurance procedures we have perAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily believe that in all material respects, the Sustainability Report of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainabilihas not been prepared in accordance with the criteria defined ty Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance above by the Board of Directors and management. procedures. We conducted our review of the Statutory SustainA Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. ability Report in accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR Stockholm, 9 March 2020 Deloitte AB Hans Warén Lennart Nordqvist Authorised Public Accountant Specialist member of FAR 114 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 ALTE R NATIVE PE R FOR MANCE M EASU R ES Alternative performance measures The company presents certain financial performance measures in the Annual Report which are not defined according to IFRS. The company believes that these measures provide valuable additional information to investors and management, as they enable an evaluation of the company’s performance. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable with the metrics used by other companies. These financial measures should therefore not be seen as a substitute for measures defined in accordance with IFRS. The following table presents measures that are not defined in accordance with IFRS, unless otherwise stated. Operating capital Definition: Total assets excluding interest-bearing assets, tax assets and assets held for sale minus non-interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax liabilities, all calculated at the end of the year. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog calculates operating capital for the key ratios return on operating capital and average operating capital. Full year OB 1 Jan 2019 Full year 2019 IFRS 16 applied 2018 Current receivables etc., non-interest bearing 1,677 1,840 1,846 of which advance payments to suppliers 165 219 219 of which tax assets 34 1 1 of which trade receivables, loans and other receivables 1,478 1,620 1,626 Current: other liabilities 1,193 1,397 1,397 of which tax liabilities 47 156 156 of which trade payables and other liabilities 1,146 1,241 1,241 Total assets 41,549 40,912 40,786 Less interest-bearing assets (cash and cash equivalents) –1,114 –847 –847 Less interest-bearing receivables (non-current) –4 – – Less tax assets -34 –1 –1 Less other liabilities and provisions (non-current) –8,513 –8,382 –8,382 Less contract liabilities –2 –1 –1 Less trade and other payables –1,146 –1,241 –1,241 = Operating capital, MSEK 30,736 30,440 30,314 Dividend yield Definition: Operating profit before change in value of forest assets, excluding capital gains on property sales, divided by average operating capital, excluding deferred tax. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Dividend yield is one of Sveaskog’s financial targets. The target is an average dividend yield of at least 4.5 per cent. The target reflects the return on Sveaskog’s operating activities excluding the impact of forest valuations and temporary property sales. Full year Full year 2019 2018 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,694 1,812 Less capital gains on property disposals –185 –234 Subtotal 1,509 1,578 Operating capital OB 30,440 28,316 Operating capital CB 30,736 30,314 Average operating capital (OB + CB)/2 30,588 29,315 Subtotal as above 1,509 1,578 Divided by average operating capital 30,588 29,315 = DIVIDEND YIELD, % 4.9% 5.4% A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 115 ALTE R NATIVE PE R FOR MANCE M EASU R ES Alternative performance measures, cont. Net interest-bearing debt Definition: Interest-bearing liabilities less interest-bearing assets, all calculated at the end of the year. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog calculates interest-bearing net debt for the key ratio net debt/equity ratio. Full year OB 1 Jan 2019 Full year 2019 IFRS 16 applied 2018 Interest-bearing assets (cash and cash equivalents and non-current receivable) 1,118 847 847 Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions (non-current) –5,642 –5,164 –5,088 Interest-bearing liabilities (current) –2,625 –2,823 –2,773 = Net interest-bearing debt, MSEK –7,149 –7,140 –7,014 Net debt/equity ratio Definition: Net interest-bearing debt divided by equity. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Net debt/equity ratio is one of the ratios for which Sveaskog defines financial targets. The target is a ratio in the range of 0.3–0.6. Sveaskog considers that the ratio reflects the scope for dividends and strategic investments as well as enabling assessments of the Group’s ability to fulfil its financial obligations. Full year Full year 2019 2018 Net interest-bearing debt 7,149 7,014 Divided by equity 23,574 23,145 = Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.30 0.30 Return on operating capital Definition: Operating profit divided by average operating capital, excluding deferred tax. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog believes the ratio gives a true and fair picture of the company’s return excluding financial assets and financing choices. Full year Full year 2019 2018 Operating profit 2,093 3,509 Divided by average operating capital 30,588 29,331 = Return on operating capital, % 6.8% 12.0% Return on equity Definition: Reported profit after tax expressed as a percentage of average equity. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog considers that the ratio measures the company’s annual return on the capital invested in the business by the owner and thus shows how profitable the company is for its shareholders. Full year Full year 2019 2018 Equity OB 23,145 20,848 Equity CB 23,574 23,145 Average equity (OB + CB)/2 23,360 21,997 Profit for the year 1,558 3,171 Divided by average equity 23,360 21,997 = Return on equity, % 6.7 % 14.4% 116 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 ALTE R NATIVE PE R FOR MANCE M EASU R ES Alternative performance measures, cont. Interest coverage ratio Definition: Operating profit before change in value of forest assets excluding capital gains on property sales plus financial income divided by financial expenses. The Group’s definition has not been changed since previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog considers that the ratio shows the company’s ability to cover its financial expenses (interest, etc.) Full year Full year 2019 2018 Financial items in the income statement –130 –143 of which financial income 0 0 of which financial expenses –130 –143 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,694 1,812 Less capital gains on property disposals –185 –234 Plus financial income 0 0 Subtotal 1,509 1,578 Divided by financial expenses 130 143 = Interest coverage ratio, multiple 11.6 11.0 Equity ratio Definition: Equity divided by total assets, all calculated at the end of the year. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared with previous periods. Comment: Sveaskog considers that the performance measure shows how large a share of the company’s assets is financed with equity and indicates the company’s sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations. Full year Full year 2019 2018 Equity 23,574 23,145 Divided by total assets 41,549 40,786 = Equity ratio, % 57% 57% A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 117 G LOSSARY Glossary 2030 Agenda COSO High conservation value trees On 25 September 2015, the UN General Acronym of Committee of Sponsoring OrganTrees which are left to develop naturally. Often Assembly adopted the resolution 2030 Agenizations of the Treadway Commission. COSO thick or old. da for Sustainable Development. This agenda is a framework for evaluating a company's means that all 193 member states have internal control over financial reporting. HVO diesel committed to working to achieve a socially, HVO stands for Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil. environmentally and economically sustainable Dead wood It is a renewable fuel component that can be world by the year 2030. The agenda contains Wood which is left in clearings as environmenmixed with or replace diesel. 17 goals and 169 targets. tal consideration. ISO AEO Ecological compensation Acronym of International Organization for Acronym of Authorised Economic Operator. Compensation for lost or damaged conserStandardization. An international standards AEO is an EU-wide quality assurance of a vation values by, for example, recreating or body that promotes industrial and commercial company's customs procedures. restoring conservation values in other areas. standardisation. Biodiversity Ecopark Key biotope Variety of all living things in all environments A large, contiguous forest landscape with high Area of forest with high conservation values and ecological processes of which they are conservation values and nature conservation where red-listed species (biotope-dependent) part. This includes diversity in and between ambitions. Sveaskog has established 37 are expected to be present. These forests are species and in ecosystems. ecoparks. often old and have the character of natural forests. Biotope Ecosystem services A region of relatively uniform environmental Services provided by nature on which humans M3sub conditions, occupied by a given plant commuare directly dependent, such as pollination by Volume unit for timber. Refers to solid cubic nity and its associated animal community. bees and water purification in wetlands. metres under bark. Measures the actual volume of wood without bark in cubic metres. Biotopes requiring consideration Edge zones Common measurement unit for pulpwood. An assessment of what is a biotope requiring A line of forest which is left mainly along consideration is made by weighing up the waterways and lake shores to benefit aquatic Marking (for cross-cutting) conservation values of the area. insects and fish. Preparing timber, cutting a stem into logs. CFO FSC® Mosaic felling Acronym of Chief Financial Officer. Finance Acronym of Forest Stewardship Council. An Felling with heightened consideration that is Director (in Sweden). international organisation which promotes spread over an area. environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial Cleaning and economically viable management of the MTN programme Caring for a stand by thinning out the forest world's forests. MTN is an acronym of Medium Term Note. It and leaving the removed trunks. is a bond offered on a continuous basis thar Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) normally matures within five to ten years of Commercial paper programme GRI is an independent foundation within the issue. MTN bonds are often issued within the A borrowing commitment used by companies United Nations. GRI publishes standardised framework of an MTN programme whose purfor financing purposes. international guidelines for sustainability pose is to provide the issuer with a continuous reporting. The aim is to create consistency and source of finance without the need to draw Compensation land comparability between sustainability reports in up comprehensive legal documentation from Land which is surrendered to a private indiorder to make it easier to assess and compare scratch. vidual or to the state for nature conservation companies from a social, environmental and purposes. financial perspective. Nanocellulose Nanocellulose is extracted from wood fibres. Contractor Hectare, ha It is an exceptionally strong and renewable A person or company that performs work One hectare is 10,000 m². One km² corrematerial. on a contract basis, such as a construction sponds to 100 hectares. company. PEFC High conservation value forests Acronym of Programme for the Endorsement COP21 Forests that have been set aside within the of Forest Certification Schemes. An internaBetween 30 November and 11 December framework of Sveaskog's target of a nature tional organisation which promotes certifi2015, the countries of the world met in Paris conservation area of 20%. High conservation cation of forests and recognition of various for COP21, the twenty-first session of the value forests have high conservation values certification programs. Conference of the Parties to the United (key biotopes or forests with potential to Nations Framework Convention on Climate become high conservation value forests) or Productive forest land Change. At the meeting, the countries agreed have good potential to develop such conservaForest land that produces at least 1 m³ fo/ha/ on a new global climate agreement to take tion values. year on average. effect from 2020. 118 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 G LOSSARY / DE FI N ITIONS Protective zone Seed processing unit Thinning Strip at the edge of a field that is not managed. Svenska Skogsplantor has a seed processing Caring for a stand by thinning out the forest The aim is to prevent run-off of nutrients and unit in Lagan which produces forest seed and making use of the removed trunks as weed killers to watercourses or depressions in for all parts of Sweden. The raw material, the pulpwood and possibly sawlogs. the ground. cones, comes from seed plantations comprising 1,000 ha. UN Global Compact Raw pine oil A UN initiative to encourage companies to A by-product from the production of paper Selective felling adopt sustainable business practices. The pulp. Called raw pine oil regardless of which A collective name for management systems, Global Compact has ten principles in the tree species the raw material consists of. methods and measures whereby the forest is areas human rights, labour, environment and managed so that the land never becomes as corruption. Re-zoning bare as in clear felling. Re-zoning means that the entire property Whistle-blower function structure is divided into larger contiguous areSE seedlings The possibility for a person to anonymously as. The aim is to create more practical forest Propagation method called somatic report irregularities or misconduct within the and agricultural parcels by exchanging land embryogenesis. A technology based on seeds. organisation. between properties. From a single seed it is possible to raise many identical copies of a tree with desirable Red-listed species properties, in the same way as with cuttings. Species whose long-term survival is uncertain due to forestry, for example. Classified Stand according to international threatened species An area that has a consistent habitat for categories in a so-called red list. plants. Seed plantation Sustainability/sustainable development A seed plantation produces seeds with known Sustainable development is about maintaining hardiness, high growth and other properties the productive capacity of ecosystems in the desirable for forest cultivation. long term and reducing the negative impact on nature and human health. Sustainability has three dimensions: social, ecological and economic. Definitions Return on equity Net earnings per share Interest coverage ratio Reported profit after tax expressed as a perProfit for the year after tax divided by average Operating profit before change in value of centage of average equity. number of shares during the year. forest assets excl. capital gains on property sales plus financial income divided by finanReturn on operating capital Operating capital cial expenses. Operating profit divided by average operatTotal assets excluding interest-bearing ing capital. assets, tax assets and assets held for sale Operating margin less non-interest bearing liabilities and Operating profit expressed as a percentage Gross margin deferred tax liabilities, all calculated at the of net sales. Operating profit before depreciation and end of the year. share of profit of associates expressed as a Debt/equity ratio percentage of net sales. Operating profit from conNet interest-bearing debt divided by equity. tinuing operations Dividend yield Operating profit before change in value of Equity ratio Operating profit before change in value of forest assets, profit/loss of associate compaEquity divided by total assets, all calculated at forest assets, excluding capital gains on propnies and capital gains from property sales. the end of the year. erty sales, divided by average operating capital, excluding deferred tax. Net interest-bearing debt Interest-bearing liabilities minus interCapital turnover rate est-bearing assets, all calculated at the end Net sales divided by average operating of the year. capital. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 119 Financial calendar 2020 Interim report January – March and Annual General Meeting 24 April 2020 Interim report January – June 16 July 2020 Interim report January – September 26 October 2020 Financial reports Sveaskog's annual report and interim reports are available at www.sveaskog.se Printed information can be ordered from: • www.sveaskog.se • Email info@sveaskog.se • Telephone +46 (0)771 787 000 • Letter to Sveaskog, HR and Communications, Torsgatan 4, SE-105 22 Stockholm 120 A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 Questions If you have any questions about Sveaskog and our operations, please contact our communications department by email info@sveaskog.se or call +46 (0)771 787 000. If you have any questions about our sustainability work, please contact our Sustainability Manager, Lena Sammeli-Johansson, by email lena.sammeli@sveaskog.se or call +46 70 53 04 653. If you have any questions about our financial reports, please contact our Head of Finance, Anders Jakobsson, by email anders.jakobsson@sveaskog.se or call +46 8 655 91 94. 2020 Annual General Meeting Sveaskog's Annual General Meeting will take place on Friday 24 April 2020 at 11:00 at IVA, Grev Turegatan 16, Stockholm. The Annual General Meeting is open to the public. Members of Parliament have a special right to attend and ask questions. Members of Parliament and members of the public who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting may confirm attendance to: • www.sveaskog.se/arsstamman • Email: kundcenter@sveaskog.se • Telephone 0771-787 100 The notification should be received by Sveaskog not later than one week prior to the Annual General Meeting. A N N UA L R E P O R T A N D S U STA I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 019 121 Sveaskog Communications and Finance has produced the Annual Report and Sustainability Report in collaboration with Forever Sustainable and Chimney. Photos: Angelica Zander (front cover), Jarkko Sirkiä/Maaseudun Tulevaisuus (page 8), Getty (pages 10–11), TT/Rickard Söderström (pages 12–13), Alexander Von Sydow (page 15) Getty (pages 16–17), Samir Soudah, Menna Gilbertson, Bengt Alm, Niklas Kämpargård, Malin Grönborg, Mats Samuelsson, Lennart Käck/Lulebild (pages 18) Stefan Silfverblad, Patrick Degerman (page 19), Leif Öster (page 22), TT/Rickard Söderström (pages 24–25), Henrik Risberg, Sveaskog (page 26), Stefan Toterud (page 27), Kurt Rodhe, Niklas Kämpargård (page 27) Getty (pages 28–29) Inger Thorén Emilsson (page 32), Hans Berggren (page 33), Patrick Degerman (page 35), Lennart Käck/Lulebild, Bengt Alm (page 39), Martin Olson (page 40), Anders Westergren (page 41), Arboreal Trädhöjd (page 41), Carl-Robert Jonzon (pages 42–43), Emil Nordin (page 52), Fredrik Persson (page 54), Lennart Käck/Lulebild (page 55), Jan Danielsson (pages 56–59) and Tom Jägestedt (page 123). Foldout: Angelica Zander. Printed at Hylte tryck AB in March 2020 on FSC® certified paper from Swedish forests. Sveaskog AB Corporate Identity Number 556558-0031 Head ofﬁce SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel. + 46 (0)771 787 000 Visiting address: Torsgatan 4 Email info@sveaskog.se www.sveaskog.se facebook.com/sveaskog twitter.com/sveaskog vimeo.com/sveaskog youtube.com, search term “sveaskog”
