COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 AFFILIATES, SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES: MARGA ASIA LIMITED MARGA GLOBAL TELECOM LIMITED MARGA LANDMARK DEVELOPMENT CO.,LTD. GLOBAL CALL LIMITED STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS To Our Stakeholders, We, Marga Group with its member companies including Marga Asia Limited, Marga Global Telecom Co., Ltd, Marga Landmark Development Co., Ltd and Global Call Limited, are committed to continue our support to the ten principles of the United Nation Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are one of the first foreign direct investors in Myanmar history to pledge up to 3% of annual profits for the sole use in sustainable CSR initiatives as an integral part of our investment permit. Throughout the years, we have endeavored and will continue to mobilize every member of our board and employees to embrace and act upon our mandate of commitment to community work and social responsibility. In our fourth annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and we strive to align our policies and practices with its principles. Sustainable development and philanthropy are central to our work. We are committed to adding value to the communities in which we work in and creating a better future for everyone around us. Yours Sincerely, Wilson Yeh Director, Head of Property Development 2 OUR STORY Marga Group is a diverse international corporate completed landmark projects around the with a local Myanmar presence. Our group world. Our core competencies lie in real estate, derived its name from the Sanskrit word Marga, telecommunications and consumer retail, and we which means “path” in English, the Buddhist path aim to become the most trusted and reputable to enlightenment. foreign business in Myanmar. Our story is built upon an unwavering While commercial success is paramount to any commitment to excellence supported by our business, commitment to community care is diverse and deep experiences in our industries. equally, if not more, important for us. Marga Our shareholders and directors are comprised Group is the first foreign direct investor in of world-class professionals from Hong Kong, Myanmar history to pledge up to 3% of annual Korea, Australia and the United Kingdom. profits to corporate social responsibility on our Individually and collectively, our team has investment license. 3 PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE In real estate, our pursuit of excellent has telecommunications and in consumer retail, we driven us to break away from industry norms to know our customers and we deliver beyond their craft finer residential living spaces and better needs. commercial areas that raise the bar in luxury living and professional working standards. In These values are shown in our flagship project, telecommunications, our pursuit of excellence The Central. Our project made clean sweep has motivated us to deliver better solutions of the Myanmar Property Awards 2017, to corporates and individuals at competitive receiving the most awards – Best Condo prices. In consumer retail, our pursuit of Development, Best Retail Development, Best excellence has led to the combination of Mixed Use Development, Best Universal Design Asia’s most trending consumer concepts with Development, Best Developer as well as Special Myanmar’s unique culture, creating a collection Recognition in Corporate Social Responsibility. of engaging retail experiences. Our service In addition, we also received two awards at the is unparalleled as we go above and beyond Myanmar National Real Estate Awards 2019 – to make a distinction between scripted service Residential Developer of the Year and Best Highand authentic engagement. In real estate, in end Condo Development. 4 DIVERSITY AND DEPTH OF EXCELLENCE Canada United Kingdom United States Korea China Hong Kong Singapore Yangon Australia Through diversity, we enrich our business peers. Our international team has extensive environment, creating more effective relationships real estate development, corporate finance, with our employees, our customers, and the telecommunications and fund management communities in which we live and work. Our team experience in Australia, China, Hong Kong, represents over 7 countries and we have worked Malaysia, the Middle East, Thailand, New in more. While breadth of experience is vital to Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom and the success of every development, the depth of the United States of America. We are the most our experiences is what sets us apart from our experienced team in town. 5 FIRMWIDE CULTURE OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We have the most comprehensive corporate their pursuit of excellence in academics and social responsibility program in Myanmar. professional development; Marga Clean Our program benefits the lives and addresses Water Initiative which aims to meet Sustainable the needs of different groups and communities Development Goal 6 of ensuring access to ranging from disaster victims, to orphans, water and sanitation for all; and Marga SME to the elderly and to young musicians and Initiative which welcomes any SMEs led by professionals. We have created four initiatives: young Myanmar entrepreneurs to enlist and Marga Community Care which advocates promote their business. In the past few years, responsive, direct and continuous actions to more than 200 Marga employees, family relieve and assist in the needs of deprived and friends have come together to care, to communities and Buddhist establishments; give, to share and to make a difference in the Marga Youth Foundation which sets out communities where we work and live. to nurture and empower young people in 6 FIRMWIDE CULTURE OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MARGA COMMUNITY CARE Marga Community Care is an initiative that advocates responsive, direct and continuous actions to relieve and assist needs of deprived communities and Buddhist establishments. Since its inception in 2013, MCC has reached out to more than 60 schools and orphanages, 3,000 elderly and 2,500 disaster afflicted households with donations of cash and supplies, and direct caretaking assistance. MARGA YOUTH FOUNDATION Marga Youth Foundation sets out to nurture and empower young people in their pursuit of excellence in academics and professional development. It aims to cultivate channels for the exchange of ideas and sharing of knowledge and experiences with international delegations and experts. We are passionate about nurturing and equipping the young people of Myanmar to pursue their dreams and aspire for excellence. This year, we implemented an initiative where we invited Italian Musicians from Italy to train young musicians in Myanmar. Marga Youth Foundation continues to provide long-term scholarships and research funds to universities. MARGA CLEAN WATER INITIATIVE Marga Clean Water Initiative aims to meet Sustainable Development Goal 6 of ensuring access to clean water and sanitation for all. In 2016, Marga conducted surveys with local administrations to implement the Clean Water Initiative in the outskirts of Yangon. In 2017 – 2019, we installed water purification system across 12 public schools. We target to install water purification systems for more than 20 public schools by 2021, giving more than 7,000 children access to clean water. As of 2019, our access has already extended to more than 3,500 students. MARGA SME INITIATIVE Marga SME Initiatives began as an initiative to raise the living standards of Myanmar by mobilizing, motivating and maintaining continuous actions of love and care. Over time, these values evolved into nurturing and empowering the young entrepreneurs of Myanmar. This initiative is developed in dedication to SMEs led by Myanmar young entrepreneurs under the age of 40. We are welcoming any SMEs led by Myanmar young entrepreneurs to enlist in our campaign and promote their business at our newly opened project, The Central Boulevard. 7 OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES WE BELIEVE IN HONESTY, TRANSPARENCY AND FAIRNESS In all aspects of our business and expect the same in our relationships with all those with whom we do business. We believe in fulfilling our promises and doing what we say we will do. WE ARE PROFESSIONALS. We take great pride in the professional quality of our work. Our team goes to great lengths to ensure flawless delivery. In everything we do, we maintain the WE HAVE AN highest international standards and we UNCOMPROMISING RESOLVE strive for perfection. FOR EXCELLENCE. Our experience shows that if we provide the best products for our customers, our own success will follow. If it came to a choice, we would rather be best than biggest. WE BELIEVE OUR BUSINESS IS SUCCESSFUL ONLY IF WE BENEFIT THOSE AROUND US. Sustainable development and philanthropy are central to our work. We are committed to adding value to the communities in which we work and creating a better future for everyone around us. 8 CORE BUSINESSES R E A L E S TAT E D E V E LO P M E N T The Yangon property market is rich with has yet to see true quality development can only opportunities. After a decade of reforms led by be expected to rise even further. political pioneers, Myanmar has transformed an isolated economy into one of Asia’s most soughtMarga Group aims to be the largest and most after investment attractions. Yangon, once Asia’s reputable international real-estate developer most prosperous city half a century ago, is now in Myanmar, and strives to deliver the finest regaining the interest of savvy international and most exquisite properties this country has investors as the most vibrant and fastest growing ever seen. Focusing on high-end world-class business hub in the region. developments in Yangon, our international development and management team has At the heart of a country of over 50 million extensive experience in master planning, project people, Yangon has witnessed unprecedented design and management, project execution, growth in its property market since 2012. and property and asset management across the Now in the wake of an influx of multinational Asia Pacific region. Our team of industry experts corporations and the promulgation of the new has an uncompromising passion for the highest Condominium Law that allows foreign ownership quality. We believe in only bringing the best to of property, demand for international-standard our end-users that will truly define an exquisite, properties and commercial spaces in a city that metropolitan as well as sustainable lifestyle. 9 DEVELOPMENTS THE CENTRAL BY MARGA LANDMARK Right by Yangon’s famous Inya Lake and situated business district, and the charming neighborhood at the corner of Kabar Aye Pagoda Road and and international hubs inside Yankin Township, Kanbe Road, two of Yangon’s busiest roads, The a thriving commercial hub for upscale Yangon Central sets out to be a world-class real estate where The Central is located. development that showcases the beauty and urban vitality of the booming economic center The Central consists of the first international in the ASEAN region. Inya Lake is the largest retail promenade in Myanmar, stylishly fitted lake in Yangon and the most beautiful recreation residential towers, a boutique shopping mall hotspot for tourists and locals. Much of the Inya and grade-A commercial office space. The Lake shoreline lies some of the most expensive Central will become an iconic landmark for private properties in the country. Having the modern, sustainable living and for the local and most expansive view of Inya Lake, The Central international community to live, work and play. effortlessly links its residents to Yangon’s central 10 DEVELOPMENTS THE PARK BY GREEN URBAN VENTURES The Park is Marga Group’s latest mixed-use The project is an international standard mixeddevelopment in Myanmar. Our aim is to create use urban development that also considers ecoa new culture, green, transport and smart hub friendly and energy efficient features in building in a highly prominent location. The Park will design as well as integrated infrastructure for deliver a culturally-rich and exclusive escape built-in telecommunication and high-speed data for its community to experience urban lifestyle networks. in serenity. 11 TELECOMMUNICATION Marga Global Telecom holds a Network Network (GOPN) technology and innovative Facilities Services (Individual) License to operate wireless technology to provide Fiber Internet in Myanmar. It is strongly backed by Global Call, Services, Wireless Internet Services and Metro a leader in the Hong Kong telecommunications Wi-Fi Services in Yangon. sector, and supported by VSC, a solutions leader in the across international telecoms markets. We have utilized latest Gigabit Passive Optical 12 CONSUMER RETAIL Our Consumer Retail vision currently encompasses 5 food & beverage brands, which we have delivered through our deep industry connectivity and understanding of Myanmar consumers. THE CENTRAL SWEETS Yangon First’s Dessert Destination Concept We house a variety of international and local dessert options such as Remicone, Yogurtland, Family Crepes, Caca, Naked Dessert and Dirty Little Secrets. ORIGIN COFFEE Myanmar’s Coffee Revelation A café brand educating the world on Myanmar’s brilliant coffee, with plans to expand upstream into the coffee bean production value chain. 13 CONSUMER RETAIL REMICONE Korean Ice Cream Sensation, First Store in Southeast Asia Introducing a variety of ice creams, made with ingredients sourced directly from Korea. Classic Western & Korean Cuisine with LOCALE AND AH SSA Premium Myanmar Produce A two-floors-two-brands concept with healthy interpretations of classic western food and hearty Korean cuisine. 14 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS (“UN”) GLOBAL COMPACT On 23 December 2015, Marga Group became UN Global Compact are listed below and are a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Ten derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Principles. By incorporating these principles Rights, the International Labour Organization’s in our strategies, policies and procedures, we declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights pledge to meet fundamental responsibilities in at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment the areas of human rights, labour, environment and Development, and the United National and anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the Convention Against Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 15 HUMAN RIGHTS P R I N C I P L E S A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y A N D G O A L S Marga is committed to supports the Universal We make sure that there are no acts of torture Declaration of Human Rights, based on equality or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or and non-discrimination principles. Each of our punishment within our organization. We trust stakeholders is entitled to all the rights and and practice that everyone has the right to equal freedoms regardless of their race, sex, religion, pay for equal work. birth or other status. We do not tolerate any form of child and forced labour and we take extra We strive to ensure that everyone could afford precautions to prevent this from happening in a standard of living adequate for the health and all our businesses and supply chains. We also well-being of themselves and of their family. respect our employees’ rights to freedom of We encourage our stakeholders to value the association and to be members of trade unions. importance of education and fully grant flexibility During the reporting period, we are pleased to to technical and professional education. report that we have had no incidents in relation to discrimination, forced labour or child labour. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 16 HUMAN RIGHTS I M P L E M E N TAT I O N As stated in our guiding principles, Sustainable Through one of our initiative, we got to sponsor development and philanthropy are central to our a short film known as Still/Life The Story of work. We are committed to adding value to the Awakening, which features youth are pushing communities in which we work and creating a the boundaries of art, sports and culture. Still/ better future for everyone around us. Life – The Story of Awakening won Best Short Form Content in the Asian Academy Creative We have implemented four initiatives: Marga Awards. It was the first time for Myanmar to win Community Care, Marga Youth Foundation, such award in that category. Marga Clean Water Initiative and Marga SME Initiative. The goal is to raise the society’s Above mentioned initiatives are ongoing and awareness of the importance of practical and spanning across impoverished children and sustainable actions to help alleviate the needs of families, natural disaster-stricken communities, communities with scarce resources and means, young people from diverse ethnic backgrounds, to empower the young people to pursue their underdeveloped communities, community aspirations, and to nurture inclusiveness, peace leaders, scientific and technological research and harmony. projects, and environmental awareness and conservation. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Marga firmly believes that all children should 3 general hospitals, 1 children hospital, over have equal opportunity to have a wonderful 2,500 disaster afflicted households and dozens childhood. We are committed to support and of orphanages. Our newly implemented Marga enrich the health, welfare and education of the Clean Water Initiative has provided clean water less unfortunate children. to more than 3,500 students from more than 12 public schools in the outskirts of Yangon. From 2014 – 2019, we have provided community service and funds to over 17,000 children from more than 65 schools, 4 elderly homes, 17 LABOUR P R I N C I P L E S A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y & G O A L S Nationwide, Myanmar has been actively As Marga recognizes employees as one of the promoting the campaign for the demolition most important stakeholders of the organization, of forced and compulsory labour. Marga has we also respect and practice the promotion of been participating in this campaign by making our workers’ right to collective bargaining. We sure that none of our workers feel forced to appreciate the comments and addresses from work involuntarily. Creating a safe, healthy, our employees in terms of working environment, non-discriminative and harmonious workplace conditions, employment terms and relations for our employees is core to our principle with between employers and employees, or their respect to labour. We also nurture and reward respective groups. We believe that keeping performance, devotion and hard work. close and transparent relationships with worker representatives increase our understanding of We take great pride in the complete absence of potential issues and thus assist more effectively child labour in Marga and in our corporation, in finding the best possible solution for issues that contractor, supplier partners. may arise. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18 LABOUR I M P L E M E N TAT I O N Our goal is to elicit the right fit for our people to grow and develop their career with us while we provide a safe working environment for our employees, especially for our onsite employees. We believe in growing capabilities of our workforce by attracting, developing and retaining the right people. We empower and invest in strengthening our people at all levels with relevant skills and knowledge through training, professional development and engagement activities. We continue to operate a robust talent review process to build an effective talent pipeline and succession planning. At the same time, we also provide fair remuneration and rewards, as well as opportunities and resources to our employees to acquire new skills and enhance existing ones. Our human resources department takes charge in making sure that our workers are fully informed about their right for freedom of association upon joining Marga on their first day of work. In addition to this, our HR would organize seminars with local authorities from Labour Offices on an annual basis. Representatives from each department are invited with compulsory attendance to learn from these seminars, which benefit their leadership and team culture. The representatives are briefed thoroughly about the rights and freedom of association for employees. We also hold various programmes that focus on upgrading the competencies of our people and increasing their productivity whilst creating a talent pool for effective succession planning. Investments are made in structured on-the-job trainings, workshops and seminars covering areas ranging from management, technical, communications, 19 and leadership to soft skills. In support of development needs and career plans. Key continuous professional development, we support performance indicators (KPI), both for the our employees in their career development business as well as the employee, are in place through coaching, feedback, advice, as well as to ensure that performance goals are aligned access to learning opportunities for performance with our business objectives. enhancement. The training is provided either inhouse, through e-learning or through external We have an open-door policy, allowing all training providers. employees to obtain a fair review and a prompt response to problems or concerns relating to any All employees undergo an annual performance aspect of their work by raising their concerns and career development review to assess to superiors, heads of department, higher performance, areas for improvement, management or to the HR Department. 20 LABOUR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In addition to our endeavor to develop a safe and and maturity of a nation is often determined fair working environment for our employees, we and measured by growth, development, and strongly encourage our employees to engage the quality of its future leaders. We have been in community services. We have been doing so supporting many aspects of the community and since we first came to Myanmar in 2013. contribute to the strengthening and improvement of education standards within society. Marga is committed to the people and future development of this great country. The progress 21 ENVIRONMENT P R I N C I P L E S A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y & G O A L S It is our main priority to maintain and develop while we are undergoing construction activities. green and sustainable communities. Marga, We achieve this by taking precautionary being a real estate developer, focuses not only approach to environmental challenges. We on urbanization but also conserving a green work very closely with our suppliers, contractors, environment by promoting sustainable actions. and business partners to use modernized We make sure to produce less waste and cause environmentally friendly technologies. the minimum possible harm to the environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 22 ENVIRONMENT I M P L E M E N TAT I O N We are aware of the importance of environmental committed to fighting damage to the environment, protection and conservation where there are we avoid causing pollution and waste, minimise increasing environmental problems resulted energy consumption and promote clean air and by human activity. As an organization that is clean water wherever possible. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION MECHANISMS It is our duty to take responsibility in protecting our environment and causing less pollution. We practice environmental protection mechanisms in our construction site by reusing concrete, brick, wood and steel debris from the construction for the paving of construction roads and temporary site facility construction. By doing so, we generate less waste and utilize less concrete and bricks than conventional construction sites. ​ PROVIDING ACCESS TO PURIFIED WATER FOR HEALTHIER LIVES In 2016, Marga implemented the Clean Water Initiative in the outskirts of Yangon. By the end of 2019, Marga installed water purification systems in 12 public schools to benefit more than 3,500 children by providing access to clean water. We plan to install water purification systems for more than 20 public schools by 2021, which will benefit more than 7,000 children. 23 ENVIRONMENT I M P L E M E N TAT I O N CARING AND SPREADING LOVE TO THE CHILDREN We implemented The Children’s Initiative in 2019 which aims to support the society in a way that improves children’s wellbeing, especially for those who are surviving with little love and care. Within a year, we have reached out to 24 schools and orphanages, and met more than 10,000 children from different backgrounds, ethnicities and religions. This initiative is developed to provide support for children’s education, livelihood and happiness. We donate all basic necessities and more that are urgently by orphanages and schools. CREATING YANKIN PARK As Yangon is densely populated with millions of people, public open spaces are very hard to find. To improve quality of life and the wellbeing of the community, we have built a public park within Yankin Township in August 2019. This will allow adults and children from the neighborhood to get outside and enjoy active lifestyles. 24 ENVIRONMENT MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Marga recognizes that preserving the resulted in less waste and more purified drinking environment and giving back to those around us water. Our efforts in community engagement is a social obligation. Therefore, we have been have resulted in improved education and wellactively working on making a positive impact being for underprivileged children throughout in aspects of our work. Our efforts in creating the year, and a new public open space for a a green and clean environmental footprint have now happier and healthier neighborhood. 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION P R I N C I P L E S A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y & G O A L S Marga is an organization committed to follow We prohibit everyone in our company from UNGC’s principle of anti-corruption. Integrity involvement in extortion and bribery, and take and transparency are fundamental values we effective action on those who have engage in hold to fight against corruption in any forms. any kind of corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 26 ANTI-CORRUPTION I M P L E M E N TAT I O N We make sure all levels of management contractor/stakeholder shall not offer any comply to clear and strong policies about advantage in any form (including but not limited avoiding corruption. We have comprehensive to gifts, cash, gift coupons, banquets and loans) monitor and control mechanisms to ensure antito us, the client. Furthermore, employees are corruption and anti-bribery policies are obeyed encouraged to report incidences regarding by our stakeholders, business partners, and corruption. Whistleblowers are rewarded for governmental as well as non-governmental reporting any acts of corruption and are ensured organizational partners. We have signed an confidentiality. “Anti-corruption Agreement” stating that the MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Maga interact and conduct business and anti-bribery policy. By doing so, we never failed partnerships with all types of stakeholders to comply to The Anti-Corruption Law and the through lawful and justified means. We operate internationally standardized and accepted Code with openness and transparency while doing of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery policy. business by adopting the anti-corruption and 27 DISCLAIMER All information contained herein, including but not limited to numbers, figures, statements, drawings, designs, logos, illustrations, photographs, visual representations, models, renderings, areas, specifications, dimensions, plans, graphic materials, features and amenities, and other displays (the “Information”) are published in good faith and are for purposes of general reference only. Any part or all of the Information are subject to modification, revision, change or withdrawal at the sole discretion of Marga 23 Investment Limited (“Marga 23”) without any prior notice to any person, and should not be relied upon as representations or warranties, of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the report or the Information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the report for any purpose, and consequently cannot and should not form part of a binding offer or contract with any person. Any reliance you place on such Information is therefore strictly at your own risk. In no event will Marga 23 be liable for any loss or damage including without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from any business losses, loss of revenue, income, profits or anticipated savings, loss of contracts or business relationships, loss of reputation or goodwill, or loss or corruption of information or data arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this report. 28 www.margaglobal.com v Hong Kong Office Myanmar Office Suite 2105A, Harcourt House Units 1906-07, 19th Floor, Sule Square 39 Gloucester Road No. 221 Sule Pagoda Road Admiralty, Hong Kong Kyauktada Township, Yangon Tel +852 3690 1001 Tel +95 1 9255171~5
