Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S | Vibeholms Allé 20, DK-2605 Brøndby | Company Reg: 6272 5214 | nkt.com Contents 04 04 NKT A/S Introduction 05 NKT 05 Letter of commitment 06 Description of business model 08 Sustainable Development Goals 2019 10 Ethics and compliance 12 Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition 15 Environment, energy and climate 18 Human and labour rights 21 Vendors and business partners 23 Target overview 24 NKT Photonics 25 Letter of commitment 26 Description of business model 27 Ethics and compliance 28 Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition 29 Environment, energy and climate 30 Human and labour rights 32 Vendors and business partners 32 Whistleblower hotline 33 NKT A/S 33 Reporting principles UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption. NKT is signatory to the UN Global Compact and this report provides Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. INTRODUCTION LETTER OF COMMITMENT Introduction “We are committed to supporting the global reduction of CO₂ emissions with both our solutions and from our operations” This report constitutes the compliance of NKT A/S Statement of Representation with Section 99a (CSR) and Section 99b (Diversity) of To ensure top-level commitment and local support, the Danish Financial Statements Act. It also includes selected leaders broadly representing the activities of communication on our progress within the principles NKT and NKT Photonics are each obliged to sign a of the UN Global Compact. All NKT A/S entities are Statement of Representation based on the principles covered by this report unless otherwise stated. of our Business Code of Conduct for the reporting of potential violations. The contents of the individual NKT A/S comprises two independent business units Statements of Representation are then consolidated specializing in power cables (NKT) and photonics and potential actions are taken accordingly. equipment (NKT Photonics). The two business units have separate sections in this report. Diversity NKT A/S is firmly committed to equality of treatment NKT A/S has established corporate policies and for all employees. As part of this commitment, rules which govern the compliance of the company, the composition of and developments within the its employees and business partners with relevant company’s workforce are monitored as shown regulations, laws and our Business Code of Conduct. below, and we strive wherever possible to promote These mechanisms are described in the present report, which is structured into three focus areas covering company policies, actions and goals and increased equality of gender representation. See more detailed description of diversity actions in the section of each business unit. Letter of commitment describing relevant risks and risk mitigation. The following sections constitute our social responsibility At Board level, the target is to have at least two out of as required by Section 99a of the Danish Financial Act: six members represent the underrepresented gender Anti-corruption among members elected at the Annual General Environment, energy and climate Meeting. This target was not achieved for the Board Human and labour rights of NKT A/S as there have been no changes in the composition of the Board during 2019. The target is maintained for 2020¹. The development of the global power grids is crucial One of our key enablers is our diverse culture driven to ensure the transition to renewable energy, and by engaged employees. We promote diversity as a leading provider of power cable solutions NKT and equality across our organization, and we are is a central player in this development process. We committed to supporting the global transition are committed to supporting the global reduction of towards renewable energy based on rules for CO² emissions in both our solutions and from our responsible and ethical behaviour defined in our operations. Our power cable solutions provide the Business Code of Conduct. Furthermore, we aim Diversity in senior management at NKT A/S backbone for the expansion of power grids needed to to conduct our business in accordance with the ensure the capacity for e.g. the integration of renewable relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Age profile Gender No. of nationalities energy, more electrical cars and heat pumps. that express the most important global challenges. (The predominant Total <40 40-54 >54 Female Male nationality in %) Internally, we are constantly focused on reducing Our continuing commitment to the UN Global Board of Directors* 6 0 0 6 1 5 2 (Danish 83%) our own environmental impact, and in 2019 we have Compact strengthens our focus on responsible and NKT** 53 10 32 11 8 45 10 (Danish 38%) taken significant steps to reduce our carbon footprint ethical operation while maintaining our business NKT Photonics*** 11 0 8 3 2 9 5 (Danish 37%) by operating both our high-voltage factories on pledge of bringing power to life sustainably. The Total 70 10 41 19 11 59 11 (Danish 41%) electricity originating from renewable energy. By end principles of the UN Global Compact constitute See more detailed description of the gender composition for NKT on page 19 and NKT Photonics on page 31. of 2020 it is our ambition is to have all our production the foundation for expanding the awareness of sites operating on renewable electricity. sustainability throughout our organization and among * Elected at the Annual General Meeting. ** The senior leadership level in NKT consits of the Extended Leadership Team, including members of the Executive Group Leadership Team. external stakeholders. *** The senior leadership in NKT Photonics is defined as the Global Management Team. 2019 has also seen continued efforts to strengthen our safety culture and to build responsible business 1 A few Danish subsidiaries are according to local reporting laws obliged to report specific targets on the underrepresented gender processes in line with the principles of the UN Global Alexander Kara at Board level separately. These targets can be found in the annual reports released for each subsidiary. Compact. President and CEO, NKT 04 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 05 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS MODEL DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS MODEL Description of business model To serve the various parts of the power cable market with differing characteristics and demand patterns, NKT is organized into three business lines: Solutions, Applications, and Service & Accessories. These business lines are supported by global functions primarily comprising Finance, Human Resources, IT, and Technology. High-voltage onshore High-voltage offshore Medium-voltage Medium-voltage Low-voltage Solutions Applications Service and accessories Revenue distribution 2019 (EURm)* The Solutions business line specializes in high-voltage power The Applications business line offers customers a broad The Service & Accessories business line provides services cable solutions. NKT provides a broad range of solutions range of lowand medium-voltage power cable solutions. for offand onshore power cables and offers a full portfolio for offand onshore power transmission systems and can NKT markets high-quality products that conform to the of power cable accessories across the mediumand 117 supply both AC (Alternating Current) and DC (Direct Current) continued increased regulatory requirements and customer high-voltage categories. power cable systems. NKT offers customers complete and expectations, and has developed ergonomic solutions which customized end-to-end turnkey solutions, including full are easy to install. Telecom power cables are also being The Service business focuses on high-voltage power cables. installation services. developed and marketed with a view to future opportunities These generally require surveillance, but limited maintenance. in the roll-out of the next-generation 5G mobile network. However, incidents will occur due to external damage caused 456 NKT has two high-voltage production facilities centrally by anchor drag, excavation works, etc. To reduce such situated in Northern Europe: Cologne, Germany, and NKT holds leading positions in north, central and east incidents and shorten potential power cable downtime, there is Karlskrona, Sweden. Their sea and river accesses enable European markets. In its Applications activities, the company demand for monitoring solutions and rapid response, and NKT 389 efficient logistics for offshore solutions in Europe and the operates five main production sites situated in the Czech has service teams based in Denmark, Germany and Sweden. rest of the world. These production sites, combined with Republic, Denmark, Poland, and Sweden. the company’s high-tech capabilities, in-house installation Accessories are critical components in any power cable expertise and a dedicated best-in-class cable-laying vessel, system. In the high-voltage market, the technological make NKT a leading company in the interconnector, offshore competence possessed by NKT is key as only a limited wind, and oil & gas segments. number of suppliers can match the numerous requirements Solutions (47%) Applications (41%) that accessories must meet for reliable and consistent Service & Accessories (12%) Both high-voltage production facilities operate on green performance. NKT provides market support for accessories electricity orginating from renewable energy sources. from three production sites in Germany and Sweden. * Std. metal prices 06 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 07 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 Sustainable Development Goals 2019 The UN Sustainable Very high Impact High Impact Development Goals (SDGs) define the greatest sustainability challenges globally and provide guidelines for the necessary actions. At NKT, we are committed to 7. Affordable and clean energy 9. Industry, innovation 13. Climate action 8. Decent work and 12. Responsible consumption running our business in NKT designs, manufactures and and infrastructure As a front-end partner and cable solutions economic growth and production a way that contributes to installs power cables that constitute the NKT is actively supporting the provider for the global power grids, NKT Providing a safe working environment NKT continuously focuses on minimizing a number of the targets. backbone of the global power grid. We development of the infrastructure needed is supporting the transition to renewable for all employees is a NKT priority. the environmental impact of its activities link countries through interconnector to bring power to industries, cities and energy. Maintaining and building the Safety is one of our core values, and through reduced consumption of energy The goals and underlying systems, and we have extensive societies all over the world. We provide infrastructure needed to integrate and we strive continuously to strengthen our and natural resources. We strive to targets with the most experience in connecting offshore wind the cable technology and expertise distribute renewable energy to the power safety culture at all company levels. We maintain high material utilization, and we significant impact for farms to the onshore power grid, thus needed to exchange energy across grids is paramount for mitigating climate participate in industry initiatives, operate operate one of the very few specialist NKT are set out below. integrating renewable energy into the borders, and at a global level we have change, increasing temperatures, and within international standards, respect and recycling plants for power cables, global energy mix. The integration of installed city cables for grid operators reaching energy targets nationally and comply with local labour laws, and support which ensures re-use of materials and More information on how affordable and clean energy is essential providing the infrastructure supporting a internationally. In the performance of freedom of association. All our employees sustainable disposal of non-recycling we work to support the for mitigating climate change by reducing modern lifestyle. these activities we strive to do business are engaged on contracts which adhere components. Furthermore, we run our SDGs is provided across CO² emissions and supports many of the ethically, responsibly and sustainably. to local laws and regulations. Furthermore, high-voltage manufacturing sites on this report and in the legislative goals of renewable energy both Part of our climate action is to run our two health and safety compliance is embedded green electricity to minimize our carbon at national and international level. high-voltage manufacturing sites on green in our qualification process for vendors and footprint. All our production sites are target overview on electricity. business partners minimizing the risk of certified according to ISO 14001, the page 23. interactions with partners not complying international standard that specifies with our Business Code of Conduct for requirements for effective environmental Vendors & Business Partners. management. Moderate Impact 5. Gender equality 14. Life below water 15. Life on land 16. Peace, Justice process for vendors and business partners NKT believes that a diverse organization NKT has extensive experience operating in NKT plans and manages its onshore and strong institutions minimizing the risk of interactions with nonprovides the best foundation for the offshore industry and strives to protect operations with focus on preserving the NKT is committed to responsible compliant vendors. We are also an active developing the competencies needed to aquatic biodiversity and wildlife when environment and minimizing impact on business practices and refrains from all member of several organizations working generate the company’s targeted financial installing and laying cables. We safeguard nature and wildlife. We have processes forms of bribery, fraud or corruption. to promote sustainable and fair conditions results. We are committed to providing the seabed during trenching and cable in place to monitor our environmental This is described in our Business Code in the industry. We have a compliance equal opportunities to our employees, burial, maintain a safe distance from footprint and mitigate the risks of of Conduct, which establishes the program in place, which also operates a and we will not tolerate discrimination wildlife during offshore operations and environmental incidents. fundamental principles and rules of corporate whistleblower hotline, where or harassment based on race, religion, have experience from several operations behaviour for all NKT employees. Antiboth employees and external stakeholders gender or any other factor. in high-risk marine environments. bribery and principles of fair competition can report any misconduct or concerns similarly form part of our assessment anonymously. 08 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 09 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Ethics and compliance A global mindset and responsible business conduct are key to NKT and we are committed to promote ethical behaviour across the company. NKT operates in an increasingly complex regulatory The Ethics & Compliance function collaborates Related SDGs and global environment in which ensuring compliance with Financial Compliance on implementing internal is a fundamental challenge. We are continuously controls to increase our efforts in detecting potential improving our compliance approach and we compliance issues. have a broad-reaching compliance programme in place that encompasses anti-bribery and antiData privacy corruption, anti-trust law (competition law), data NKT remains fully committed to data privacy privacy, and export controls and sanctions. We are in respect of all personal information relating to compliant with applicable laws, regulations and employees and third parties. Data privacy constitutes international standards, we strive to meet stakeholder a focal component in our new 2020+ Ethics & expectations, and we are constantly building a strong Compliance strategy with view to further developing compliance mindset throughout our organization. and improving the technical and organizational measures in place to ensure compliance. Business Code of Conduct The NKT Business Code of Conduct remains key to Third party compliance our compliance approach. It defines the fundamental In 2019, new processes were developed and principles and rules governing the behaviour that implemented to further increase third party screening is demanded and expected of all our employees and due diligence. The aim is to strengthen the in relation to vendors, business partners and the responsibility and transparency throughout our value public. The Code defines how we do business chain, with focus on suppliers and customers. across our organization and includes policies covering aspects such as business integrity, antiResponsible tax corruption, environment, energy and climate, fair NKT is a responsible taxpayer and we base our competition, human and labour rights, information tax reporting on responsibility, openness and security, product compliance and quality, compliance transparency in all aspects of tax related reporting management, and reporting of misconduct. and compliance, wherever the company and its Compliance, responsibility and transparency are key when doing big projects installing power cable solutions as the NordLink interconnector project subsidiaries operate. We are committed to work exchaging renewable energy between Norway and Germany. Photo: TenneT Governance with relevant stakeholders to drive transparency and In 2019, we established an Ethics & Compliance the development of efficient tax systems and aim to Committee organized by our Ethics & Compliance follow recommendations of Good Governance on Officer, chaired by the CEO, and including tax affairs in the countries in which the subsidiaries participation by the CIO, CHRO, General Counsel, a of NKT are located. NKT does not operate in tax Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs Business Line representative, and Risk Management havens and any future operations in tax havens will & Compliance. The Committee meets quarterly and be of purely commercial reasons. Our commitment to Strengthen our ethics and compliance Ethics & Compliance strategy developed is responsible for developing and overseeing the responsible tax is particularly supporting SDG target approach and implemented √ 16.6 implementation of our Ethics & Compliance Strategy. #16.6 focusing on the development of effective, In 2019, the Committee initiated a self-assessment accountable and transparent institutions at all levels. Future plans, goals and actions Target SDGs of our compliance programme as the foundation for a new 2020+ Ethics & Compliance strategy setting Strengthen our ethics and compliance Develop new Business Code of Conduct 16.6 the direction for the compliance programme and approach strategic initiatives. 10 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION, ANTI-BRIBERY AND FAIR COMPETITION ANTI-CORRUPTION, ANTI-BRIBERY AND FAIR COMPETITION Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition NKT refrains from and opposes all forms of bribery and corruption and abides by the rules of fair competition. We have a clear policy covering these areas which is implemented and communicated company-wide through our Business Code of Conduct. In the Business Code of Conduct we clearly state Within the framework of our Business Code of Related SDGs that, when doing business, no employee may directly Conduct, NKT operates a whistleblower hotline or indirectly offer, give or take money or anything that can be used by both employees and external else of value to obtain an improper advantage. stakeholders to report unethical behaviour. Furthermore, we explicitly distance ourselves from Awareness of the whistleblower hotline has been participation in unfair trading and illegal anti-trust raised with a new video, and the scope and the activities. processes for investigations have been further refined and improved. In 2019, all reports received Key risks were acted upon in accordance with established Our principal exposure in regard to corruption and procedures. bribery relates to interaction with external vendors, suppliers and business partners in connection with Increased training activities tenders and business agreements. We strive to to ensure anti-trust compliance minimize this exposure both internally and externally Focused activities have been undertaken in 2019 to through various initiatives, including targeted further increase the level of anti-trust training and training and awareness campaigns, and through awareness of all relevant employees. These activities our increased third party compliance process included the development and implementation of developed during 2019 to strengthen responsibility new, mandatory anti-trust compliance guidelines and We refrain from and opposes all forms of bribery and corruption and abides and transparency throughout the value chain. an online e-learning training module, followed up by by the rules of fair competition. An improved risk assessment process is under additional face-to-face training and communication development and planned to be implemented in efforts. The guidelines and the online e-learning will 2020 to help further identify key compliance risks. be assigned annually to all employees in scope. Anti-corruption is an integral element in the training These activities were part of a strategic initiative Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs provided to NKT employees under our Business adopted following the EUR 4m fine imposed on NKT Code of Conduct, and also forms part of our and confirmed in July 2018 by the European General Update and implement specific guidelines Relevant employees have been trained business contracts. Anti-corruption is similarly Court following the investigation by the European on anti-trust behaviour incorporated in our Business Code of Conduct for Commission into alleged price-fixing on high-voltage Guidelines on anti-trust behaviour have been updated, implemented and internally √ 16.5 External Vendors & Business Partners, with which power cable projects. The case is currently under communicated we expect full compliance from the parties involved. appeal to the European Court of Justice ². Future goals and actions Targets SDGs Strengthen general risk assessment Develop and implement an improved risk assessment process covering all areas 16.5 within the Ethics & Compliance program and targeting all key functions within NKT 2 Find more information about the case in Note 7.2 in the Annual Report 2019 12 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 13 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE Environment, energy and climate As a key player in the global transition towards renewable energy NKT is committed to minimizing its environmental impact through sustainable business practices and operations. NKT is committed to developing a long-term During 2019, we experienced a chemical leakage of Related SDGs sustainable business by continuously reducing its non-hazardous bitumen from a truck at a filling area environmental footprint. Our products are therefore at our facility in Cologne, Germany. The incident was designed, manufactured and installed with careful handled in accordance with all relevant procedures consideration for the environment, utilization of and contained locally where rehabilitation was natural resources and energy consumption. performed. The local authorities were informed, and the incident led to knowledge sharing with view to Furthermore, we expect all employees to comply the mitigation of similar incidents. with the principles in our Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) Policy and to act with respect Environmental Management Systems for the environment as stated in our Business Code All NKT manufacturing sites operate under an of Conduct. ISO14001-certified environmental management system. In 2019, to abide by local laws and regulations, most sites also completed an annual Key risks third-party audit that complement our internal monitoring of regulatory changes locally. Our principal environmental exposure relates to the handling and use of chemicals, the consumption of Energy reporting energy arising from manufacture of power cables In 2019, we reinforced and aligned our corporate and accessories, and the consumption of fuel for reporting processes for environmental incidents power cable installations and transport of goods. and measurement processes company-wide. The To mitigate this exposure, we have established a reporting is supported by an Energy Efficiency dedicated QHSE policy as well as procedures for Tracker that gathers data from all sites on water ensuring compliance with internal guidelines and usage, energy and fuel consumption. external regulations. In 2019, we continued the implementation of a Reducing our carbon footprint company-wide incident reporting system, IA 3, covering health, safety and environment. The As part of our focus on reducing environmental IA system strengthens our reporting process, impact, we have taken significant steps to reduce our ensures the necessary transparency for effective carbon footprint. In 2019, our high-voltage factory action, enhances decision-making and provides in Cologne, Germany, was powered with electricity improved documentation for future mitigation and based on renewable energy, thus joining our plants prevention. To continuously track and minimize our in Drammen, Norway, and Karlskrona, Sweden, environmental footprint we operate with a clear which are already powered by renewable energy. KPI framework that includes monthly follow-up procedures for analysis of data. NKT Victoria is the world’s most energy-efficient cable-laying vessel and plays a key part in our ambition to consistently minimize the environmental impact arising from our offshore operations. Here, she is laying a high-voltage power cable solution connecting the islands of Jersey and Guernsey in October 2019. Photo: Guernsey Electricity Ltd. 3 Informationssystem om Arbejdsmiljö (Information system for working environment) Referred to as TIA in last year’s report 14 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 15 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE In NKT, we have a clear ambition to continuously air compressors, BMS4 system implementation, reduce our environmental impact. Hence, we aim to upgraded machinery cooling systems and have all our production sites powered by electricity conversion to LED lightning, is planned to run until produced from renewable energy sources by the end Q2 2020 when an evaluation will be performed of 2020. with view to potentially implementing the project company-wide. Furthermore, a number of initiatives were completed in 2019 aimed at enhancing energy efficiency CO₂ emissions across the company. These included new lighting, In 2019, direct CO² emissions from our gas and optimized manufacturing processes and improved fuel consumption, including fuel for operating our material recycling. Also implemented was Energy cable-laying vessel NKT Victoria amounted to 7,815 Walks, an initiative intended to ensure constant focus tonnes. Indirect CO² emissions from consumption on energy efficiency activities. This initiative also of purchased electricity and district heating and serves to strengthen knowledge sharing across the corporate travel amounted to 66,504 tonnes. Total organization. emissions therefore amounted to 74,319 tonnes, which was higher than in 2018 due to improved A pilot project highlighting the potential of driving reporting and changes in the purchased energy mix further energy efficiency has been initiated at the NKT manufacturing site in Warszowice, Poland. The project, which includes strategic investments in new at several manufacturing sites negatively impacting our CO² emissions. The calculations were performed using the CO² emission factors for purchased NKT Recycling Centre electricity mixes and fuels. NKT operates one of the few facilities specialized in the recycling of scrap from the power cable industry. Each year, this plant processes large quantities of cable scrap originating both from our own production sites and from customers. Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs Located in Stenlille, Denmark, the NKT Recycling Centre plays a key part in our Improve measurement processes for Process for tracking has been ambition to limit environmental footprint. energy consumption improved and reinforced √ 12.6 Improve existing water measurement Process for tracking has been processes improved and reinforced √ 12.6 Strengthen focus on energy efficiency Company-wide intiatives have been implemented √ 12.6 Recycled cable scrap, tonnes Strengthen focus on reporting of Environmental incidents have been included 2017 2018 2019 environmental incidents in company-wide reporting process for √ 12.6 health and safety Strengthen focus on evaluation of Process developed and in use on Total weight of processed cable Recycled PEX environmental factors several sites (√) 12.6 2,365 652 Increase material utilization compared 97.3% 2,439 676 with 2018 (96.9%)* √ 12.5 2,974 437 Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs Total weight of cable received from customers Recycled PVC Reduce our carbon footprint All manufacturing sites to run on green 12.6 175 130 electricity ultimo 2020 160 135 Increase focus on energy efficiency Complete and evaluate pilot project on energy monitoring and set high level 12.6 123 108 implementation plan Reduce our environmental impact Zero Environmental Impact Incidents 5 12.5 Recycled copper Received halogen-free retardants * Reporting period from October, 2018 to October, 2019 1,205 40 1,176 58 802 116 Recycled aluminium 539 575 4 Building Management System 520 5 An incident negatively impacting the environment or stakeholders e.g air pollution, oil and chemical spills with impact to the environment 16 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 17 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Human and Gender diversity in NKT labour rights Senior leadership* All employees 2019 15% 17% 2018 16% 18% A healthy, safe, secure and diverse working environment is fundamental to the continued growth of NKT, and we consider our people key to successful company relations. 84% 82% 85% 83% Female Male As stated in our Business Code of Conduct, NKT is Safety at the heart Related SDGs committed to delivering a working environment based of our corporate culture and behaviour. The Safety Culture Ladder program Diversity and equality on respect, employee engagement and safety. To With the ongoing implementation of an IA system 6 will provide a framework to create safer working As described in our policy for diversity and inclusion, honour this policy, appropriate systems and processes on all manufacturing sites, we are strengthening our conditions and encourage safety awareness with NKT is committed to promoting equal gender have been introduced with specific targets in the reporting, analysis and data collection on a global the overall goal of reducing the number of unsafe representation and diversity in the workplace. We above key areas, including leadership development. scale, ensuring increased transparency. The IA situations and safety incidents. firmly believe that a diverse organization provides the system is designed for reporting incidents and in best foundation for developing the competencies Key risks the fields of health, safety and environment and for To maintain and further develop the safety culture needed to deliver targeted company performance. Our principal exposure in the area of human and tracking the related actions and countermeasures. we expect to launch a mandatory HSE training to labour rights relates to threats to employee safety When fully implemented the IA system will enable us drive awareness and empower employees to mitigate In 2019, diversity and inclusion has continued as part in the form of occupational injuries and accidents. to better design and focus our improvements and accidents and unsafe situations company-wide. of the mandatory training for all leaders in NKT where To mitigate this exposure we have clear processes mitigations. Final system implementation has been The mandatory training will accompany the already they have been introduced to the benefits of having and policies in place. Safety is a key priority and deferred to 2020 due to the completion of a major ongoing initiatives focusing on improving health and diverse teams. Furthermore, they received training in we are continuously monitoring and improving update. safety in NKT. assessing the composition of their teams in relation standards across our organization. We have also to diversity to enable potential adjustments. The established an improved procurement process for To continue to improve our processes, monitor our Furthermore, the increase in the Lost Time Accident focus on diversity in leadership training is maintained vendors and business partners to strengthen our progress and build a strong corporate safety culture Rate has triggered an in-depth review of our for 2020. supplier assessment in areas such as human rights with the overall ambition of eliminating accidents, mitigating activities, the calculation and our data and diversity. Exposure to forced and child labour we also conform to OHSAS 18001, a management collection. As a result, the definition of key targets We work to ensure a more balanced gender is not considered material as we mainly operate in system standard for occupational health and within health, safety and environment has been composition and aim always to have a diverse field low-risk countries. A key element in risk prevention safety. However, we are currently working on a aligned with OSHA 9 regulations resulting in a focus on of candidates for all positions at senior leadership is our whistleblower hotline, which is open to both global implementation of the new Health & Safety Lost Time Injury Rate 10 (LTIR) for 2020 and onwards. level which throughout the year has been stressed to employees and external partners. Management standard ISO 45001 and expect the We are deliberately setting an ambitious target of a both internal and external recruiters. This expectation upgrade to be finalized and certified company-wide LTIR of 0.50 for 2020 to maintain the strong focus on will naturally be part of a planned update of our Human and labour rights during 2020. strengthening our safety culture. In addition, we have recruitment policies during 2020. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, NKT improved the method for collecting ‘worked hours’ is committed to conforming to all aspects of the In 2019, we have seen our Lost Time Severity Rate 7 supporting the increased accuracy in our monitoring Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect increase slightly on 2018 and we also registered an enabling a stronger mitigation going forward. and abide by local labour law, we support freedom increase in our Lost Time Accident Rate 8. of association, and all our employees have contracts complying with local laws and regulations. As a reaction to the above results, we continue to focus on strengthening our safety culture and Diversity in senior leadership* At our factories we are currently implementing systems, expect to be certified for the Level 3 Safety Culture Age profile Gender No. of nationalities processes and procedures that conform to SA 8000, Ladder program in 2020. The intention is to initiate the international standard on social accountability and and drive employee engagement, developing risk Total <40 40-54 >54 Female Male fair treatment of workers across industries. awareness and building a safety-focused mindset 2018 58 13 38 7 9 49 8 2019 53 10 32 11 8 45 10 * Consits of the Extended Leadership Team, including members of the Executive Group Leadership Team. 6 Informationssystem om Arbejdsmiljö (Information system for working environment). Referred to as TIA in last year’s report 7 Lost Time Severity Rate describes the average number of lost work days experienced on the Lost Time Accidents that occurred during 2019. 9 Occupational Safety Health Administration, has created globally recognized HSE KPI definitions for continuous monitoring and improvement for occupational health and safety 8 Lost Time Accident Rate is a standardized way to measure and compare accident frequency in organizations. From 2020 LTAR will be replaced by 10 LTIR = (Number of LTI x 200,000) / worked hours Lost Time Injury Rate due to implementation of new KPI framwork based on OSHA definition (see footnote 10) 11 As of 31 December 2019 18 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 19 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS The senior leadership level in NKT is designated the Extended Leadership Team. This entity includes members of the Executive Group Leadership Team We believe that strong employee engagement is closely linked to high-quality leadership. In 2020, focus will therefore be placed on launching new Vendors and business partners and consists of a total of 53 persons comprising leadership programmes for project managers, ten nationalities. Age distribution is fairly even, practical leadership for managers in production, and the majority of members being in the 40–55 age a follow-up initiative to anchor our leadership model group. 15% of the Extended Leadership Team after completed training. currently is female, a slight decrease from last year. Female representation in the Executive Group At NKT, we expect and require our business partners Leadership Team is 13%, a decline from 2019 due Reporting according to to fully comply with all applicable laws, rules and to organizational changes. In 2020, we expect the UK Modern Slavery Act international regulations, as well as with our Global Policy diversity composition in senior leadership to be at Our Human & Labour Rights policy clearly states for Third Party Compliance and our Business Code of the same level as in 2019. that we reject any form of forced labour and do not condone the hiring of child labour. At NKT, Conduct for Vendors & Business Partners. Engaged, committed employees employees have employment contracts, they are NKT considers a diverse culture driven by engaged educated in our Business Code of Conduct including employees to be a key enabler, and employee our Human & Labour Rights policy, and they are engagement is a central part of our strategy. committed to continuously identifying and eliminating potential violations. An annual employee engagement survey is As part of our ongoing efforts to improve thus confirming their commitment to a sustainable conducted to track progress towards our strategic NKT business partners are expected to comply with Related SDGs transparency in our vendor network we have now future. The vendor qualification and evaluation target of an Employee Engagement Index above the principles of our Global Third Party Compliance implemented a cloud-based procurement system process includes self-assessment questionnaires, 80. The index in 2019 was up on 2018, and leaders Policy and our Code of Conduct for Vendors & with global reach that embraces all our suppliers and interviews, desktop reviews, and/or other relevant at all levels will continue to initiate actions forstering Business Partners, in which our Human & Labour vendors. The system will strengthen transparency measures. engagement. Rights Policy for Suppliers is also an integral part. in the vendor value chain, enabling us to monitor compliance with sustainability and legal requirements During 2020, we will continue and widen this journey in areas such as human rights and anti-corruption. by launching our Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) program, which focuses beyond the regular Furthermore, it will ensure the overall compliance cost benefits and aims to develop a cadre of trusted of the vendor value chain with our Global Policy suppliers for discussion of long-term commitments Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs for Third Party Compliance and our Business and potential co-development of sustainable Increase Employee Engagement Index for 2019 (>61) 65 √ 8.5 Code of Conduct for Vendors and Business products through Supplier Enabled Innovation (SEI). Partners. This global facility significantly reduces In accordance with our supplier segmentation, our Increase the number of unsafe situations and 2,181 reports behaviours compared with 2018 (≥1,620) √ 8.5 the risk of interaction with vendors not complying ambition is to have our A and A+ suppliers included with established policies, rules and regulations. in the SRM programme by the end of 2020. Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate compared with 2018 (≤ 0.53) 0.73 ÷ 8.5 Furthermore, we have embarked on a process of identifying high-risk vendors and suppliers and NKT Market Place conducting due diligence on the parties concerned. In 2019, we introduced NKT Market Place – a smart, Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity Rate compared with 2018 (≤20) 29 ÷ 8.5 digitized and automated ordering platform which Redefine the reporting of safety related incidents and Aligned KPI definitions with Vendor qualification facilitates compliant ordering from NKT-approved create new baseline for implementation in 2020 OSHA regulation √ 8.8 As part of our procurement process, we now operate vendors. NKT Market Place also includes all relevant vendor registration and qualification procedures internal policies active at NKT and a ensures that Full implementation of integrated reporting system Deferred to 2020 due to a major system update. More precise to ensure that business partners are assessed procurement from vendors complies with our Global calculation methods have been (√) 8.8 against expectations set out in our Global Policy for Policy for Third Party Compliance and our Business implemented group-wide Third Party Compliance and our Business Code of Code of Conduct for Vendors and Business Partners. Complete two SA 8000 audits One completed ÷ 8.8 Conduct for Vendors and Business Partners. The qualification procedure covers areas such as health NKT Market Place was implemented at our and safety, financial health and legal compliance, and high-voltage manufacturing sites in 2019 and will Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs demands acceptance of both the aforementioned automate 30–40% of our indirect spending by the end Increase Employee Engagement Index for 2020 > 65 8.5 instruments. of 2020. Implement Safety Culture Ladder Level 3 Certification 8.8 In 2019, we registered 350 suppliers with the cloudReduce the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) ≤ 0.50 8.8 based procurement system representing close to 85% of our Group spend. All our strategic suppliers Strengthen reporting and monitoring of safety culture Full implementation of IA System have now agreed to the Business Code of Conduct, 8.8 on all manufacturing sites Strengthen corporate safety culture Complete transition from 8.8 OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 20 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 21 VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS TARGET OVERVIEW WITH SDG’S Target overview Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs Ethics and Strengthen our ethics and compliance Ethics & Compliance strategy developed compliance approach and implemented √ 16.10 Anti-corruption, Update and implement specific guidelines Relevant employees have been trained anti-bribery and on anti-trust behaviour fair competition Guidelines on anti-trust behaviour have been updated, implemented and internally √ 16.5 communicated Environment, Improve measurement processes for Process for tracking has been energy and energy consumption improved and reinforced √ 12.6 climate Improve existing water measurement Process for tracking has been processes improved and reinforced √ 12.6 Strengthen focus on energy efficiency Company-wide intiatives have been implemented √ 12.6 Strengthen focus on reporting of Environmental incidents have been include in environmental incidents company-wide reporting process for health √ 12.6 and safety Strengthen focus on evaluation of Process developed and in use We operate with strategic environmental factors on several sites (√) 12.6 partners when sourcing Increase material utilization compared 97.3% natural materials to ensure quality, with 2018 (96.9%) √ 12.5 responsible handling and production. Human and Increase Employee Engagement Index for 65 labour rights 2019 (> 61) √ 8.5 Increase the number of unsafe situations 2.181 situations reported and behaviours > 1,620 √ 8.5 Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status SDGs Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate compared with 2018 (0.53) 0.73 ÷ 8.5 Complete registration procedure for all existing A  ll existing vendors with annual spend of vendors with an annual spend of > EUR 100,000 > EUR 100,000 have been registred √ 16.6 Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity Rate compared with 2018 (20) 29 ÷ 8.5 New vendors are registred according to Register all new vendors according to Redefine the reporting of safety related Aligned KPI definitions with procedure on an ongoing basis the procedure incidents and create new baseline for OSHA regulation √ 8.8 implementation in 2020 Complete qualification procedure for all Supplier registration completed including vendors in the following categories: qualification of most strategic vendors. Full implementation of integrated reporting Deferred to 2020 due to a major system  Production, Materials and Accessories system update. More precise calculation methods (√) 8.8  Components (√) 16.5 have been implemented group-wide  Installation  Investments Complete two SA 8000 audits One completed ÷ 8.8 Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs Vendors and Complete registration procedure for all All existing vendors with annual spend of business existing vendors with an annual spend > EUR 100,000 have been registred Strengthen transparency and vendor All strategic vendors (defined as A+ and A) compliance to be qualified according to process 16.6 partners of > EUR 100,000 New vendors are registred according to √ 16.6 Register all new vendors according to procedure on an ongoing basis Strengthen transparency and vendor Develop and implement Supplier the procedure compliance Relationship Management programme 16.6 covering our strategic vendors (A+ and A) Complete qualification procedure for all Supplier registration completed including vendors in the following categories: qualification of most strategic vendors  Production, Materials and Accessories  Components (√) 16.5  Installation  Investments 22 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 23 NKT PHOTONICS NKT PHOTONICS “We operate in a global industry characterized by increasing focus on sustainability” Letter of commitment NKT Photonics manufactures a wide range of compete on fair terms, and we will tolerate no products used in solutions that have a long-term form of bribery or other acts contributing to unfair perspective of supporting the transition to renewable competition. energy and improving human health and safety. Examples include cable monitoring systems to As a company on the cutting edge of photonics extract more power from offshore wind farms, lasers technology, it is vital that we can attract highly used in manufacturing semiconductors and solar committed, top-qualified people and provide them cells, and light sources used in equipment for eye with incentive to do their best. Consequently, we surgery and disease detection. strive to offer a good, stimulating and challenging work environment with ongoing dialogue on both We operate in a global industry characterized by joband non-job-related development, goals, and increasing focus on sustainability. The entire supply performance. chain, from the suppliers of our product materials and components to the end-users of solutions We believe that our strong focus on sustainability supplied by our customers, is geared to delivering and our adherence to the principles of the UN Global environment-friendlier products and to ensuring they Compact will support our business opportunities are manufactured safely and responsibly. and at the same time contribute to improved living conditions for future generations. Products from NKT Photonics are marketed and sold with a reputation for high quality and they rely upon significant investment and R&D. It is, therefore, Basil Garabet crucially important for us that players in our industry President and CEO, NKT Photonics 24 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 25 NKT PHOTONICS NKT PHOTONICS Ethics and compliance We consider a global mindset to be key to our success. Responsible and ethical conduct is at the heart of all our actions, and as an active corporate citizen we embrace a value-based approach to the way we do business globally. Developing and fostering relationships with human & labour rights, information security, product stakeholders is integral to our business philosophy, compliance & quality, compliance handling, and and we intend to continue in this direction by procedure for reporting misconduct. A narrow due consistently delivering on the requisite compliance. diligence and risk assessment process has been We are also meeting growing demands from conducted to ensure that the content and scope stakeholders who wish to ensure we are an ethically of the Business Code of Conduct are correct and and responsible business partner. relevant for our company. The business model of NKT Photonics is based on Compliance landscape Training and awareness developing and marketing In 2016 we adopted an updated compliance An extensive communication and implementation technology-intensive products in the photonics industry. landscape covering the period 2016–2020. The package for our Business Code of Conduct was purpose of this initiative is to ensure compliance to rolled out to existing employees prior to 2017, and applicable laws, regulations, international standards now includes all new employees as part of the of the and stakeholder expectations. Our compliance work onboarding process with NKT Photonics. The CEO Description of in 2019 was performed in line with the established compliance landscape. explains in a video presentation the importance of correct business conduct and describes what the Business Code of Conduct means to NKT Photonics. business model The baseline for the compliance landscape is Various awareness campaigns were continued in a Business Code of Conduct applicable to all 2019, and employees are required to sign the Code employees. Our vision is to establish a strong to indicate that it has been read and understood. compliance mindset throughout the company by Employee training is provided in the form of an ensuring that all employees are properly trained. e-Learning course culminating in a test. Business Code of Conduct CSR focus areas NKT Photonics is a leading supplier of fiber lasers, NKT Photonics is headquartered in Denmark and Our Business Code of Conduct describes the To ensure the commitment of management both at photonic crystal fibers and distributed temperature has additional manufacturing sites in Germany, fundamental principles and rules governing the the top and locally to the principles of the UN Global systems (DTS) as well as having a strong foothold Switzerland, UK, US, and Sweden. Including conduct of all employees internally within the company Compact the Senior Management Team of NKT in ultrafast lasers. The products are sold into three our worldwide sales and service operations we and externally in relation to vendors, business partners Photonics are obliged to sign a personal Statement main markets: Medical & Life Science, Industrial, and employed approximately 400 people at end-2019. and the general public. The principles set out in of Representation. These individual statements Aerospace & Defense, where the industrial markets the Code are designed to guide us, help us make are then consolidated and actions will be taken were the biggest in 2019 with approximately 70% of Our business model is based on developing and the right decisions in internal and business-related accordingly. Policies, actions, goals and plans are the revenue. marketing technology-intensive products in the actions, and protect us while we are at work. presented in the sections below for the following photonics industry that enable our customers to topics: The company presides over a strong patent portfolio improve their offering and gain advantages in terms The Business Code of Conduct covers the entire and employs many highly skilled specialists driving of energy efficiency, safety or operating costs. We go value chain, how we do business in all parts of our A Anti-corruption technology development and deployment in our field. to market both directly and through partnerships with organization. The Code includes policies governing AEnvironment, energy & climate OEM customers. areas such as business integrity, anti-corruption, AHuman & labour rights environment, energy & climate, fair competition, 26 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 27 NKT PHOTONICS NKT PHOTONICS Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition Participation in corruption and bribery is contrary to our business values, and as a company we refrain from such activities. In NKT Photonics, we are committed to working for a sound environment NKT Photonics has a clear anti-corruption policy We work to minimize these risks both internally through sustainable business practices. where it is clearly stated that no employee may and externally: Anti-corruption is an integral part of directly or indirectly offer, give or accept money or internal corporate training in our Business Code of anything else of value as part of business dealings in Conduct in which all employees receive appropriate order to obtain an improper advantage. Key risks in regard to corruption and bribery are primarily linked to our interaction with external vendors, suppliers training in. In 2016 we extended our whistleblower hotline to enable instances of unethical behaviour such as corruption and bribery also to be reported Environment, energy and climate and business partners. by external stakeholders. Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status As stated in our Environment, Energy & Climate Policy we are committed to working for a sound environment through Enrol new employees in awareness programme New employees enrolled in awareness program √ sustainable business practices. Provide training for employees exposed Training provided to target group to above-average levels of corruption √ Goals and actions 2020 All above goals are maintained for 2020 The Environment, Energy & Climate Policy has been Our operations have very limited environmental implemented companywide through awareness impact compared with traditional industry. Our total campaigns and training ensure a high level of energy consumption is also determined more by our awareness throughout the organization. current product mix – e.g. the ratio of high-power lasers to lower power lasers – than by the energy Our product manufacture is associated with a saving initiatives we introduce. It is therefore difficult modest environmental footprint and relatively small to define relevant KPIs for consistent and long-term amounts of raw materials are utilized. We do not measurement and no such KPIs have therefore been consider the risk of environmental impact material. introduced. The majority of our products are manufactured in compliance with the RoHS directive, which restricts the use of hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment, and similar regulations. 28 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 29 NKT PHOTONICS NKT PHOTONICS Human and labour rights Ensuring a healthy, safe and secure working environment is fundamental to the continued growth of our company, and is therefore an intrinsic part of our everyday activities. We greatly value all our employees and consider and the nature of our production there is considered them key to our success. NKT Photonics perceives to be no material risk of forced labour and child NKT Photonics is committed to diversity in the workplace to be a key asset and labour. However, our employees are committed promoting equality in the workplace we do not tolerate any form for harassment or to continuously identifying and mitigating potential and believes that a diverse workforce supports the delivery of discrimination. We are also firmly committed to violations. organisational performance. providing equal opportunity to all our employees. The company’s business partners are expected to At NKT Photonics, principal risks in terms of human comply with the principles set out in our Business and labour rights relate to employee safety and Code of Conduct, and we pursue relevant due employment. To mitigate these risks, we have clear diligence processes in conjunction with mergers professional skills and personal competencies. Our Gender diversity in NKT Photonics processes and policies in place. All our employees and acquisitions. Our whistleblower process has industry – especially in R&D departments – typically have contracts that comply with local employment furthermore been extended to external stakeholders has an overrepresentation of males. laws and we closely monitor the safety of our in order to increase efforts to detect improper Senior management* All employees employees. Risks relating to forced and child labour business practice. NKT Photonics is committed to promoting equality in 2019 are not considered material as we mainly operate in the workplace and believes that a diverse workforce 18% 23% low risk countries. A key element in risk prevention There have been no reported violations of human and supports the delivery of organisational performance. 2018 10% 22% is our whistleblower hotline which is open for both labour rights for 2019 considering NKT Photonics and In 2019, we focused our attention on our recruitment employees and external partners. our business partners. process for internal and external recruits and implemented a new Recruitment Policy which Reporting according to Diversity reporting incorporates an equality statement. All Managers 90% 78% the UK Modern Slavery act We encourage diversity in our organization and we have been trained on this new Policy and training 82% 77% As stated in our Human & Labour Rights Policy we believe it enriches our corporate culture as well as will be provided for all new Managers during 2020. reject any form of forced labour, including bonded our long-term competitiveness. In NKT Photonics, labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human we are committed to ensure that, whenever possible, In 2019, the diversity of our Senior Management trafficking. We also do not condone the hiring of child more equal gender representation is promoted extended in gender and nationality but remained Female Male labour. In view of the countries we mainly operate in without compromising on qualifications in terms of unchanged in age distribution. We do not expect the distribution to change significantly during 2020. In 2020, we plan to create an Equality Policy and determine what areas we need to focus on for Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status improving the diversity within our organisation. No employee accidents 6 accidents reported ÷ No injuries by high-intensity lights detected in 0 injuries reported two-yealy tests √ Diversity in senior management* Conduct employee survey which includes employees from newly acquired businesses Deferred to 2020 ÷ Age profile Gender No. of nationalities Total <40 40-54 >54 Female Male 2018 10 0 8 2 1 9 5 Goals and actions 2020 2019 11 0 8 3 2 9 5 All above goals are maintained for 2020 * Defined as the Global Management Team. 30 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 31 NKT PHOTONICS REPORTING PRINCIPLES Vendors and Reporting business partners principles Implementation in 2019 of a new Global ERP system delayed progress in this key area, however NKT Photonics now has a stable foundation to drive improvements from. NKT Photonics went live with Dynamics 365 ERP The focus in 2020 turns to utilizing this data to NKT A/S monitors progress on sustainability by Reporting methodology solution in August 2019, setting a strong foundation drive improvements in all areas of our business, means of three main elements: The reporting parameters used in 2019 are largely for vendor management. Entering 2020, the ERP including targeted supplier audits and compliance unchanged from previous reports. system is fully operational and consolidates material management. Through 2020 KPI’s will be introduced 1. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been purchasing for NKT Photonic’s global Laser business. that measure and inform the business in this key area. developed based on relevant policies and The present report covers all entities of NKT A/S corresponding data is collected. This data unless otherwise stated. covers parameters such as occupational injuries, environmental impact, material utilization and Data integrity diversity development at Board level. The We consider our data to be sound and valid. Goals and actions 2019 Outcome Status business units are responsible for KPI quality and data collection. Auditing Develop inspection plan to monitor the extent of supplier compliance Deferred to 2020. Requires a consolidated supplier base, which in turn required ERP to go-Live. ÷ The present report has not been audited by an 80% of our procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) Deferred to 2020. Requires a consolidated supplier 2. An annual Statement of Representation covering external auditor. to be supplied by partners adopting the UN Glopbal Compact principles base, which in turn required ERP to go-Live. ÷ the principles of our Business Code of Conduct is signed by selected leaders broadly representing the activities of the two business units. Goals and actions 2020 3. A whistleblower hotline, maintained by an external Goals are maintained for 2020 provider, allows all employees as well as external stakeholders to raise concerns about seemingly inappropriate conduct, events or circumstances. Whistleblower hotline In 2016, we extended our whistleblower scheme to of Conduct which has been implemented through enable instances of unethical behavior also to be awareness campaigns and an e-Learning course. reported by external stakeholders. Our whistleblower No reports were filed during 2019 necessitating policy has also been made part of our Business Code material adjustments in business procedures. 32 Sustainability Report 2019 NKT A/S NKT A/S Sustainability Report 2019 33 NKT A/S Vibeholms Allé 20 DK-2605 Brøndby Denmark Company Reg: 6272 5214 T: +45 43 48 20 00 info@nkt.com nkt.com
