Communication on Progress 2019 We unite Norway – and Norway with the world 2 AVINOR AS 54 000 000 PASSENGERS ↑ 0.6 PER CENT FROM 2018 677 324 DEPARTURES AND LANDINGS ↓ 1.2 PER CENT FROM 2018 3 012 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 78 652 OVERFLIGHTS ↓ 3.2 PER CENT FROM 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 3 THE YEAR 2019 84 PER CENT PUNCTUALITY Avinor’s target is 88 per cent average punctuality for all its airports. Poor punctuality is largely due to weather conditions, traffic challenges in Europe, and internal challenges among the operators within Avinor’s network. 4 AVINOR AS Our performance Operating income Operating expenses Profit after tax 11 785 NOK MILLION 8 151 NOK MILLION 702 NOK MILLION NUMBER OF AIRLINE PASSENGERS NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT MOVEMENTS Figures in 1 000 Figures in 1 000 60 000 800 50 000 700 40 000 30 000 600 20 000 500 10 000 0 400 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NOK MILLION 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Operating income airport operations 10 357 10 303 10 162 9 675 9 424 Operating income air navigation services 2 100 2 107 2 085 1 991 2 088 Total operating income group 11 785 11 724 11 526 10 788 11 989 EBITDA group 1) 3 634 4 201 3 126 3 521 4 692 Profit after tax 702 1 170 499 1 029 2 449 Number of airline passengers (figures in 1 000) 54 099 54 387 52 885 50 803 50 025 Number of aircraft movements (figures in 1 000) 677 690 697 704 724 1) The Group uses EBITDA as an alternative performance measure (APM). This calculation is directly reconciled in the profit and loss account. EBITDA is used because it is an approximate calculation of free cash flow from operations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 5 Content 06 About Avinor 08 Message from the CEO 10 Corporate Governance 15 Report of the Board of Directors 2019 20 Sustainable value creation 23 Goals and results for corporate social responsibility in 2019 26 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway 35 Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation 48 Key figures climate and environment 2015-2019 50 Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer 54 Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly 60 Overview of GRI indicators 66 Executive management 67 Board of Directors 68 Income statement 69 Statement of comprehensive income 70 Balance sheet 72 Changes in equity 74 Statement of cashflows 76 Notes to the accounts 127 Responsibility Statement from the Board of Directors and the CEO 128 Auditor’s report 6 AVINOR AS About Avinor Avinor’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, and developing a national network of airports for the civilian aviation sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. Operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 7 Avinor owns 45 airports, including the subsidiary Svalbard Lufthavn AS and Værøy Heliport. Haugesund Airport is rented out and AVINOR’S AIRPORTS Fagernes Airport will be sold in 2020. Avinor is self-funded through Avinor’s airports vary by size and traffic volume. Oslo Airport is traffic revenues from airlines, revenues from commercial tenants, by far the largest and accounts for more than half of Norway’s air and direct sales to passengers. A smaller component of the Group’s traffic and just over 70 per cent of the country’s total internarevenue stems from assignments for other organisations, such as tional traffic. Bergen, Stavanger, and Trondheim also have a the Norwegian Armed Forces. The airport operations are run as a sizeable proportion of direct international traffic. Some other single financial unit, whereby the large financially profitable airairports also have international traffic: Kristiansand, Ålesund, ports finance the rest of the airport network. Commercial revenues Tromsø, Bodø, Harstad/Narvik, and Molde, in addition to some account for roughly 54 per cent of operating revenues, while traffic international charter traffic at individual airports. Haugesund revenues from airlines account for roughly 46 per cent. Airport, which is leased to Lufthavndrift AS as of 2019, has international traffic as well. Avinor Air Navigation Services is a subsidiary of the Group. Air navigation services are funded through traffic revenues from the Oslo Airport is the only Norwegian airport to have two parallel airlines for en-route navigation services, as well as revenue from runways. Stavanger Airport has a secondary runway used during the operation of tower and approach services from Avinor’s airport certain wind conditions. operations. Avinor Air Navigation Services provides services including en-route navigation services, approach control services, Oslo Airport’s runways are 3,600 metres long. At the other large and control tower services, as well as flight navigation services and airports, the runways are between 2,600 and 3,000 metres long, services relating to technical operations. The Norwegian Ministry which means they can be used by larger jet aircraft. 27 of Avinor’s 45 of Transport and Communications will evaluate a new ownership airports have short runways of between 800 and 1,200 metres. These structure for air navigation operations. Avinor is investigating are used by smaller aircraft types such as the Bombardier Dash 8, air various alternatives on behalf of the ministry. The work is due for ambulances, and private aircraft. These small airports are of huge importance in ensuring settlement in and economic development completion in the first quarter of 2020. Regardless of the ownership of remote areas. In addition, a heliport is operated at Værøy. structure of the air navigation services, airport and air navigation services are closely integrated and mutually dependent on each other in their fulfilment of Avinor’s social obligations. Avinor co-operates with the Norwegian Armed Forces at eleven generated by Oslo Airport is crucial for the financing of the network airports, nine of which are Avinor airports (Oslo, Stavanger, of airports spread across the rest of Norway. Bergen, Trondheim, Bodø, Andøya, Harstad/Narvik, Bardufoss, and Lakselv). In addition, Ørland airbase has only military traffic, and There was a total of 677,324 movements (take-offs and landings) at Rygge airport has only military activity and some general aviation. Avinor’s airports in 2019, a slight decline of 1.2 per cent compared Co-operation with the Norwegian Armed Forces is expected to be to the year before. In 2019, there were 78,652 overflights using extended to include several more airports in the future. Norwegian airspace, a decline of 3.2 per cent compared to 2018. A total of 54 million passengers travelled to, from, or via Avinor’s The shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state airports in 2019, an increase of 0.6 per cent compared to the as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. previous year. The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the corporate governance on behalf of the Norwegian state, determines Norway’s primary airport, Oslo Airport, had nearly 28.6 million Avinor’s financial framework, and regulates aviation fees. The passengers in 2019, an increase of 0.3 per cent compared to 2018. ministry also sets the Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations that Oslo Airport is the hub of Norwegian aviation and a transit airport have consequences for Avinor’s operations. Avinor’s head office is for traffic between Norway and the rest of the world. The profit located in Oslo. VISION MISSION VALUES We create Avinor will develop and · Open valuable operate a safe, efficient, · Accountable relationships and sustainable aviation · Dynamic system throughout · Customer-focused Norway. 8 AVINOR AS Message from the CEO Aviation is and will continue to be fundamental to Norway’s development The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This Communication on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This report covers Avinor’s activities in 2019, before the corona panAvinor is fulfilling its social obligations in a way that customers demic showed its first signs in China. In the course of the first three increasingly appreciate. This winter, ACI named Oslo Airport as months of 2020, the epidemic reached more or less all countries in Europe’s best airport for customer service in the size category the world, leading to a more or less complete halt in international 25-40 million passengers. Bergen received the same award in the passenger air traffic. No-one can tell what the shortor long-term 5-15 million passengers’ category. The survey covers 110 airports effects on aviation will be. in Europe. Several other Avinor airports also did very well, such as Ålesund and Bodø. Moreover, Avinor achieved its best-ever results We have a very good dialogue with all important stakeholders in in two Norwegian reputation surveys in 2019. This is due to the aviation and with the Ministry of transport. In addition, I would consistently good and systematic efforts of everyone at Avinor, in also like to stress the good cooperation we have with our stakeholdcollaboration with the other participants in the Norwegian aviation ers within health, defense, finance – and the business community. sector. We are focusing on how we can alleviate the very difficult situation of our stakeholders. In addition, we also have to focus on our own One of the major milestones for Avinor in 2019 has been the suceconomy, with the prospects of losing billions – similar to busicessful first flight with information services provided by a remotely nesses all over Norway and in the world at large. operated tower: On 19 October 2019, Røst Airport became the first to have its tower remotely operated from Bodø Remote Tower Norway without aviation is unimaginable, also in time of crisis. Center. The rollout will continue in 2020 and 2021 with Vardø, Value cannot be generated throughout our country without a safe, Hasvik, Berlevåg, and Mehamn. I’m both proud and pleased that we stable, and sustainable aviation system. Alongside highly compehave reached this milestone on our journey towards the future of tent airlines and helicopter operators, Avinor is central in providing aviation. The introduction of remotely operated towers is expected this to Norwegian society. Together with Norsk total Forsvarsforum to improve availability for airspace users, reinforce the expert (Norwegian Total Defence Forum) Avinor has established a robust environment of air traffic services, and avoid costly investments in system of cooperation with important stakeholders. This has outdated solutions. This will ensure that we can continue to provide proved to be very important during the corona-crisis. good services at competitive prices. 2019 has been a year of growing awareness of the climate crisis, The Ministry of Transport and Communications and the political which will only increase further in the coming years, although environment expect more transport for their money. At Avinor, a presently in the shadow of the corona crisis. The European programme is already in place to reduce costs by at least NOK 400 Commission’s European Green Deal offers clear political guidance. million by 2021, as measured against the financial results for 2018. It represents a shift from an emphasis on the importance of aviation Both the line organisation and workforce will be more efficient. for economic growth and competitiveness in Europe towards an With the measures we are taking to improve efficiency and reduce increased emphasis on sustainability and the climate. Avinor’s costs, we are well placed to be the best option for Norwegian commitment to transforming the aviation industry into one of aviation also in the future. Cost reductions are achieved through sustainable solutions is continuing and is now making an impact efficiency improvements of the workforce, of support services, and within the Airport Council International (ACI) with involvement in the line organisation, as well as through increased competition in from all corners of the industry. This is essential if aviation is to tower services, for example. have a sustainable future. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 9 In February last year, the Spanish company SAERCO won the tenIn recent years, Avinor has invested close to NOK 3 billion in der to supply tower services to Avinor in Ålesund and Kristiansand. improving security areas and lighting facilities around our airports. Based on its experience of this tender among other things, Avinor We have also invested roughly NOK 0.5 billion in new vehicular Air Navigation Services is implementing measures to achieve an equipment such as fire and emergency vehicles and ploughing improved and competitive cost level. In addition, the company equipment. The quality of the Group’s vehicular equipment is has established a subsidiary in Spain together with a local Spanish considered to now be very good. Within air traffic services, we partner in order to participate in tenders for tower services at have established surveillance of traffic to Svalbard, increased Spanish airports and in the rest of Europe. surveillance in the North Sea, and are replacing the entire surveillance network on the mainland. Our personnel throughout the The Ministry of Transport and Communications has previously Group are very skilled and well equipped to help Avinor fulfil its decided that the operation of Haugesund Airport should be put out responsibilities. for tender to an operator other than Avinor. This tender is complete and in 2019 operations were handed over to a company that is I would like to express huge thanks to all our employees, who do an predominantly owned by local players in the Haugesund area. incredibly good and important job in helping us to fulfil our social obligations. Whether you work with the operations of our airports, As we moved into 2020, we experienced lower passenger growth in air navigation services, in commercial departments, or with HR than previously expected. With the corona crisis we have to expect and support, you all go to tremendous lengths to ensure that Avinor a much more dramatic change. No one can tell the end result, provides good services throughout Norway. And Avinor’s infrastrucbut the forecasts for international air traffic in 2020 are not very ture, quality, reputation, and pace of development have never been optimistic. better. 2019 saw modest growth of 0.6 per cent. Meanwhile, the number of Aviation is fundamental to Norway’s development, and Avinor aircraft movements at Avinor’s airports fell by 1.2 per cent. Airlines has an obligation to society to facilitate further development in are better utilising their capacity with fuller, larger aircraft that air traffic when the present crisis situation is over. Together with can carry more passengers per flight, which is helping to reduce the airlines, Avinor is at the forefront of sustainable aviation. Our greenhouse gas emissions per passenger kilometre. owner has given us a clear remit to take on this role. Our climate programme, with its emphasis on electrification of aviation and Aviation safety is very important. In his speech at the Aviation adoption of biofuel, is enabling us to do this. It is vital that we Conference in January 2020, the Director for Aviation said that the succeed in our efforts so that aviation becomes part of the status of commercial aviation in Norway is good, while improvesolution, not part of the problem. ments are needed for helicopters and recreational aviation using light aircraft. Avinor’s infrastructure, quality, reputation, and pace of development have never been better. Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO WE SUPPORT 10 AVINOR AS Corporate Governance The aim of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance is to ensure that companies that are listed on regulated markets in Norway practise corporate governance that clarifies the role of the shareholders, the board of directors, and the day-to-day management beyond what follows from legislation. This statement has been prepared in accordance with the frameAvinor is responsible for operating a unified system of airports and work of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, the joint air navigation service for the Norwegian civilian and military last updated on 17 October 2018, and the requirements of Section aviation sector. The business is based on fulfilling and building on key 3.3.b of the Norwegian Accounting Act on corporate governance, social obligations in all parts of the country, and it must be operated with the adjustments that are required due to the fact that Avinor with safety as the highest priority and with an emphasis on environis a wholly state-owned limited company. In addition to the general mental considerations. To meet the owner’s demands, strategic priprovisions of the Limited Liability Companies Act, special provisions mary objectives have been established within economics and finance, apply to state-owned limited companies. society and the environment, aviation safety and HSE, anti-corruption, customers and partners, and personnel and organisation. The basic premise for Avinor’s operations is that safety is paramount and is prioritised ahead of any other considerations. After The Group’s policy in the field of the environment and corporate this, the greatest emphasis is on providing efficient services to social responsibility outlines the overriding principles for the customers and society. environment and corporate responsibility in Avinor. The OECD’s guidelines for responsible business shall serve as the basis for efforts relating to corporate social responsibility. Avinor is affiliated BUSINESS with the Global Compact – the UN’s global initiative for corporate social responsibility – and reports on its corporate social Avinor is a group of companies that operates in the Norwegian responsibility in accordance with the GRI – the Global Reporting transport sector. The parent company, Avinor AS, is wholly owned Initiative. The purpose is to improve Avinor’s own environmental by the Norwegian state, represented by the Ministry of Transport performance, be a driving force in the environmental efforts of the and Communications. The Group’s head office is in Oslo. The aviation industry and be a leader in corporate social responsibility company’s operations are described in its Articles of Association. efforts in Norwegian aviation. · The company’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, and The Group’s ethical guidelines were most recently revised in the developing a national network of airports for the civilian aviation spring of 2017. Furthermore, the guidelines express the Group’s sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and attitudes in its interaction with customers, suppliers, colleagues, military sectors. and the wider community. · The company’s operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, The ethics guidelines are available at www.avinor.no. and sustainable manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers. Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. · The company must be self-financed to the greatest possible extent through its own revenues from its primary activities and EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS commercial activities in connection with the airports. Financially profitable units shall fund unprofitable units internally within the The company’s share capital is NOK 5,400,100,000, comprised of company. 540,010 shares, each with a par value of NOK 10,000. The company’s equity must correspond to at least 40 per cent of the sum total of · Operations may be run by the company itself, by wholly owned the company’s recognised interest-bearing long-term loans and subsidiaries, or by other companies that the Group has interests equity at any given time. in or co-operates with. The owner determines whether the overall operation of an airport can be outsourced to others on the Avinor AS is a wholly state-owned limited company. The sharebasis of a contract and whether such an airport is to be exempt holders’ rights are safeguarded by the responsible cabinet minister from joint financing. or their deputy at the General Assembly. The General Assembly is not bound by the distribution of dividends proposed by the Board · The company shall carry out the duties imposed by society as of Directors. Dividends are declared each year. The Office of the stipulated by its owner. Auditor General monitors the management of the Norwegian state’s interests and can carry out any inspections that it deems necessary. The company’s Articles of Association are available at www.avinor.no. No authority has been granted to the Board to raise capital. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 11 Equal treatment of shareholders and Companies Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communications transactions with close associates convenes both Annual and Extraordinary General Assemblys. The Avinor AS has one class of shares. The shares are not listed on a Ministry of Transport and Communications also determines how stock exchange and there are no transactions involving the shares. the meetings will be convened. Notice of the meeting must be issued at least one week prior to the date of the Annual General Intra-group agreements are entered into pursuant to the arm’s Assembly; cf. the Limited Liability Companies Act Section 20-5, cf. length principle on ordinary commercial terms and principles. Section 5-10. All such agreements are made in writing. The Annual General Assembly is held each year by the end of the Transactions with close associates month of June. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the The Board is not aware of any transactions during 2019 between Annual General Assembly must approve the annual report and the company and its shareholders, Board members, executive financial statements, including the distribution of dividends. It also employees, or their close associates that may be characterised as considers approval of the auditor’s remuneration, determines the not immaterial transactions. remuneration of the Board for the upcoming period, provides a declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration Board members and senior executives maintain a constant to senior executives, appoints shareholder-elected members of the overview of their and close associates’ duties and roles outside the Board, and considers any other matters that, according to law or the Avinor Group. The overview is checked randomly against publicly Articles of Association, must be dealt with by the General Assembly. available information. Furthermore, the overview is subject to checks against the Group’s supplier directory. The members of the Board of Directors, CEO, and auditor who audited the previous year’s financial statements are be invited to Guidelines for Board members and executive employees the Annual General Assembly. The Chair of the Board and the CEO The Group’s ethical guidelines contain a separate point on how to are obligated to attend the General Assembly. The other Board handle conflicts of interest, in which it is stated that an employee members, as well as the auditor and the Office of the Auditor shall never participate in or attempt to influence a decision if he/ General, are entitled to attend. she has a conflict of interest or questions may be raised about the employee’s impartiality. Group employees can take on second jobs The agenda is set by the Ministry of Transport and or directorships in addition to their main employment in Avinor, Communications. provided that these do not conflict with the employee’s duty of loyalty and impartiality or with the proper performance of their The minutes of the General Assembly are available to the public. duties. In December 2018, Avinor launched an electronic solution for individuals to register any second jobs. The solution makes Nomination Committee it possible for all employees to meet the stated expectations of The General Assembly of Avinor AS consists of the Norwegian state openness about their own second jobs. represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The General Assembly has not appointed a nomination committee. The guidelines also contain provisions on impartiality. If there is doubt whether the person concerned is impartial, the issue must be discussed with the most immediate manager. CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS – COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE The state as shareholder Avinor is wholly owned by the Norwegian state. The Ministry of The company does not have a corporate assembly as agreed with Transport and Communications convenes quarterly meetings the employees. with the company. During these meetings, the company updates the owners about operations, financial developments, how social The corporate democracy committee has approved a corporate responsibility is exercised, and other conditions considered to be scheme whereby employees of Avinor AS and its subsidiaries may relevant to the owner at that time. No decisions are reached at be elected to the Board of Directors. Elections by and from among these meetings, and the company does not receive any guidelines the employees take place every other year. for how it must respond to individual issues. The Board of Directors consists of eight members. Five Board Freely negotiable shares members are elected by the General Assembly and three are elected There are no provisions in the Articles of Association which impose by and from among the Group’s employees. restrictions on the transferability of the company’s shares. The Chair of the Board is elected by the General Assembly. All Board members are elected for a term of two years. GENERAL ASSEMBLY The Ministry of Transport and Communications does not have The Minister of Transport and Communications constitutes its own Board members, but in accordance with the Norwegian the company’s General Assembly and is the company’s highest state’s principles of good corporate governance, all Board members authority. In accordance with Section 20-5 of the Limited Liability are expected to seek to safeguard the common interests of the 12 AVINOR AS company and shareholders. The composition of the Board of At the turn of the year 2019/2020, the committee consisted of: Directors is such that, in aggregate, it can safeguard the owner’s interests and the company’s need for skills, capacity, and diversity. · Eli Skrøvset (Chair) · Herlof Nilssen The owner has a meeting with each Board member once a year. · Heidi Sørum At the turn of the year 2019/2020, the Board of Directors consisted of: The Board of Directors has established an HR, remuneration, and HSE committee to act as a preparatory subcommittee in matters · Chair of the Board since 2018 – Anne Carine Tanum relating to remuneration of executive employees of the company · Vice-Chair of the Board since 2012 – Ola H. Strand and HSE. The committee must prepare guidelines for and cases · Board member since 2011 – Eli Skrøvset concerning the remuneration of executive employees, as well · Board member since 2015 – Herlof Nilssen as assessing and monitoring the Group’s policy in this area on · Board member since 2016 – Linda Bernander Silseth an ongoing basis. The committee will also support the Board of · Employee-elected Board member since 2011 – Heidi A. Sørum Directors in its responsibility for internal control and the overall · Employee-elected Board member since 2015 HSE risk situation. Three committee meetings were held in 2019. – Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen · Employee-elected Board member since 2017 – Olav Aadal At the turn of the year 2019/2020, the committee consisted of: Information on the individual Board members is available at www. · Anne Carine Tanum (Chair) avinor.no. · Linda Bernander Silseth · Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Eight Board meetings were held in 2019. The meetings were fully attended, with only a few exceptions. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In order to ensure the cohesive management of the company, a separate management system has been established, which consists The Board of Directors follows the requirements stipulated for of management documents, contingency plans, safety procedures, the management and supervision of the company pursuant to the and processes for the management and control of operations. Norwegian Limited Liability Companies Act. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors must ensure that An annual risk assessment of the Group’s activities is conducted, the company is socially responsible. The Board of Directors’ tasks and measures to manage the risk situation are evaluated and are stipulated in separate directives. These directives are reviewed implemented. The Board of Directors reviews the company’s risk annually and updated in the event of changes to the relevant regumanagement and internal control on an annual basis. lations or otherwise as required. The Board of Directors sets out an annual agenda for its work, with a special focus on goals, strategies, As part of the Group’s internal control system Avinor has estaband their implementation. The Board of Directors assesses its work lished an internal audit function. The Group’s internal audit and competence on an annual basis. function works in accordance with a mandate adopted by the Board and pursuant to standards laid down by the Institute for The rules of procedure contain a separate section on impartiality Internal Auditors. in which it is stated that the individual board member him/herself is responsible for informing the Board as to the circumstances of a The company’s appointed auditor must review the management’s conflict of interest, and must refrain from participating in delibdispositions annually. erations or decisions where the member has a conflict of interest. In case of doubt the matter must be submitted to the Chair of the Systems for internal control and risk management Board. The minutes of the Board meetings must reflect when one of related to the financial reporting process the Board members is disqualified due to a conflict of interest in a Avinor’s ethical guidelines and core values establish the foundation particular case. for a good internal control environment with respect to financial reporting together with the company’s organisation, management New Board members are sent relevant information about the comfora, and reporting lines. pany and the work of the Board. This information is also available through an electronic board portal. Business and support processes that are essential to financial reporting have been identified. These include processes related to The CEO’s responsibilities and duties are defined in directives laid investment projects, revenues, financial items, closing of financial down by the Board of Directors. These directives are reviewed and statements, and IT systems that support these processes. Overall updated as required. risk is managed and assessed centrally, while transaction management is subject to both centralised and decentralised controls. The Board has established an audit and risk management commitConsiderable importance is attached to the thorough documentatee as a preparatory and advisory body for the Board of Directors tion and assessment of important valuation items. with respect to its responsibility for financial reporting, the Report of the Board of Directors and annual report, auditing, internal Control measures are carried out in the ongoing production of control, and overall risk management. Five committee meetings financial statements and through continuous financial monitoring. were held in 2019. Systems for the evaluation/monitoring of the internal control related to the financial reporting process is under development and assessed on a continuous basis. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 13 REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors must submit a plan for the business, including subsidiThe General Assembly and its subcommittee determine the aries, to the Minister of Transport and Communications each year. remuneration of the Board of Directors. Remuneration is not based The contents of the plan must include the following: on performance and no options are issued to board members. Shareholder-elected Board members generally do not perform any · Description of the status of the market and the Group, including special tasks for the company beyond their position on the Board the development of the Group since the last plan was published. of Directors. Remuneration of the Board members is specified in a · The highlights of the Group’s operations for the coming years, note to the annual financial statements. including any major restructuring, development, and discontinuation of existing operations, or the development of new Remuneration to the Board members amounted to NOK 2,095,000 operations. in 2019. The remuneration is broken down as follows: The Chair of · The Group’s investment level, important investments, and the Board received NOK 456,000, the Vice-Chair NOK 277,000, and financing plans. other Board members NOK 227,000. · Assessments of the financial development during the plan period. The members of the audit and risk management committee · Report on measures and results of the company’s role in society, received total remuneration of social obligations, and corporate social responsibility. NOK 152,000 in 2019, with NOK 70,000 going to the chair of the The Board of Directors must submit any major changes to plans committee and NOK 41,000 to the other two members. that have previously been submitted to the Minister of Transport and Communications. The members of the HR, remuneration, and HSE committee received total remuneration of TAKE-OVERS NOK 77,000 in 2019, with NOK 35,000 going to the chair of the committee and NOK 21,000 to the other two members. Avinor AS is wholly owned by the Norwegian state as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Accordingly, this point in the Code of Practice is not regarded as relevant to the REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES company. The Board of Directors appoints the CEO and sets the CEO’s salary following preliminary consideration by the HR, remuneration, and AUDITOR HSE committee. The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO’s work and salary terms on an annual basis following preliminary considerAvinor has an independent external auditor appointed by the ation by the remuneration committee. General Assembly based on a recommendation from the Board of Directors as a whole. The auditor submits a plan for the auditing The CEO informs and recommends to the HR, remuneration, and work to the Board of Directors annually. Each year the auditor HSE committee the remuneration for executive employees who prepares a letter to the Board of Directors (Management Letter) report to the CEO. summarising the audit of the company and the status of the company’s internal control. The Board of Directors prepares a statement on the determination of salaries and other remuneration of executive employees. The The auditor has an annual meeting with the Board of Directors statement is to be discussed at the Annual General Assembly. without managerial presence. The auditor also has an annual meeting with the audit and risk management committee The remuneration of executive employees is specified in note 5 to without managerial presence. The auditor is entitled to attend the annual financial statements. the company’s General Assembly. The auditor’s remuneration is broken down into auditing and other INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION consulting services, and it is specified in note 7 to the financial statements. The General Assembly must approve the auditor’s Public information on the Group is provided by the Group’s remuneration. management. Each year the Group prepares a financial calendar indicating the dates for the publication of financial information. This financial calendar is available on the company’s website and the Oslo Børs website. Financial information is published in the form of a stock exchange notice before it is made available on www.avinor.no. The Group presents a complete set of annual financial statements together with the annual report of the Board of Directors and the annual report at the end of the month of March. Accounting figures are reported quarterly. 14 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 15 Report of the Board of Directors 2019 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2019 (Last year’s figures in parantheses) A total of 54 million passengers travelled to, from, or via Avinor’s Operations and infrastructure are being adjusted according to the airports in 2019. Air traffic through Avinor’s airports in 2019 measreduction in traffic volumes in order to minimise our employees’ ured by passenger numbers fell by 0.5 per cent compared to the exposure to the virus as well as to ensure a pool of reserve personcorresponding period in 2018. Haugesund Airport was transferred nel who can cover for those who fall ill or must enter self-isolation. to a new operator on 12 May 2019. Excluding Haugesund Airport, To facilitate this, Avinor has closed nine airports which have an traffic increased by 0.6 per cent compared with the corresponding alternative airport within a reasonable distance of them. Medical period in 2018. air transport aircraft will be catered for. The number of air transport movements in the period fell by 1.9 per The company’s profits and solvency in 2020 will be greatly affected cent compared with the corresponding period in 2018. Domestic by this situation. It is unclear when normality will start to return. air transport movements fell by 3.1 per cent, while international In light of the current situation, the Board will not recommend air transport movements fell by 0.2 per cent. Offshore aircraft the payment of dividend for 2019. Avinor has maintained constant movements increased by 8.9 per cent. The change in the number of dialogue with its owner during the first quarter of 2020 in respect of air transport movements in relation to the number of passengers measures to bolster the Group’s equity and liquidity. Alongside this reflects the use of larger aircraft and higher load factors. dialogue with Avinor’s owner, discussions are being held with banks and financial institutions to ensure short-term liquidity. The first case of the coronavirus in Norway was recorded on 26 February 2020. On 12 March 2020 the Norwegian government Cost-reduction measures are also being considered alongside the implemented a raft of measures to limit the spread of the virus monitoring of the Group’s short-term liquidity. within the population. These measures include restrictions on travel. An agreement was made on 24 March 2020 to extend the Safe and stable operations were maintained in 2019. Punctuality for restrictions until 13 April 2020. The restrictions include the closure the past 12 months averaged 84 per cent, while regularity averaged of Norway’s borders to foreigners without a residence permit. 98 per cent. The targets are 88 per cent and 98 per cent respectively. There were no aviation accidents in 2019 in which Avinor was a Due to the reduction in demand for both domestic and internacontributing party. There was one serious aviation incident whose tional flights, the airlines have reduced their networks and laid off cause Avinor Flysikring contributed to: A scheduled flight to Oslo staff. On 13 March 2020, the government suspended Avinor’s airport Airport entered Norwegian airspace without the flight being known fees from 13 March to 30 June 2020 in order to alleviate the financial to air traffic control services. The situation was discovered late pressure on the airlines. Fees for air navigation services are not and the incident was allowed to develop over time. The incident included in this suspension. prompted an extensive investigation which concluded with measures being taken. These are either being followed up or have already Avinor’s primary focus is to provide continuity and ensure that been implemented and completed. operations continue throughout the coronavirus pandemic. 16 AVINOR AS The Group’s operating income in 2019 was NOK 11,785 million ABOUT AVINOR (NOK 11,724 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 702 million (NOK 1,170 million). The change in profits has primarily been due Avinor AS is a state-owned limited liability company with the to increased provisions for estimated clean-up costs related to job of facilitating safe, sustainable, and efficient aviation across environmental contaminants at Avinor’s airports. Norway. The business has a network of 45 airports, which includes Værøy Heliport, Haugesund Airport (which is leased), and Fagernes Efforts to reduce costs and streamline the business are continuing. Airport (which will be sold during 2020). The business also provides air navigation services throughout Norway, which are provided On 12 May 2019, Avinor handed over the operation of Haugesund through Avinor’s wholly owned subsidiary Avinor Flysikring AS. Airport to the local operator Lufthavndrift AS for a period of 20 years. Avinor still owns the airport property, which it leases to the As at 31 December 2019, the company’s balance sheet amounted local company. to around NOK 44.2 billion. Permanent employees totalled 3,012 (3,099). On 7 January 2020 there was a fire in a car park at Stavanger Airport Sola. The fire started in an older diesel vehicle and quickly spread, The shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state becoming a very challenging fire resulting in considerable material as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. damage. Parts of the car park have collapsed. No personal injury The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the occurred as a result of the incident. Passengers were evacuated ownership of the Norwegian state and determines Avinor’s financial from the terminal and hotel to Stavanger city centre. The extent of framework. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is the damage is currently being assessed. The building was insured to the highest authority for Norwegian aviation and lays down the its full value. Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations that have consequences for Avinor’s operations. NOK 871 million has been allocated for accounting purposes in 2019 for estimated future clean-up costs related to environmental Avinor’s head office is located in Oslo. pollution at Avinor’s firefighting exercise area. Avinor is currently studying the construction of a new airport in ECONOMY AND FINANCES – GROUP Bodø on behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications with the aim of providing more space for urban development. The The Group’s operating income in 2019 was NOK 11,785 million design work is ongoing and aims to establish the scope and costs. (NOK 11,724 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 702 million Its implementation is dependent on the funding being put in place. (NOK 1,170 million). The National Transport Plan 2018-2029 proposes financing the development based on the state, Avinor, and the local authorities Year-on-year operating revenues for airport operations increased sharing the costs. by 0.5 per cent in 2019, driven by an increase in sales and rental income. Total operating income from air navigation services fell by The Remote Towers project reached an important milestone on 19 0.4 per cent due to reduced traffic volumes. October 2019 when Røst Airport became the first airport approved by the Civil Aviation Authority for remotely operated tower Operating expenses totalled NOK 8,151 million in 2019 (NOK operations. Avinor has a new remotely operated tower centre under 7,523 million), which is a year-on-year increase of 8.3 per cent. construction in Bodø, which will be commissioned in the second This increase has primarily been due to increased provisions for half of 2020. The centre will have effective technical solutions and estimated clean-up costs related to environmental contaminants be the largest of its kind. Avinor is planning to provide remote at Avinor’s firefighting exercise area. Excluding these provisions, tower services for up to 15 airports from the new centre by the end expenses fell by 3.2 per cent. of 2022. Total depreciation, amortisation, and write-downs for 2019 The Board of Directors participates actively in corporate social amounted to NOK 2,171 million (NOK 2,103 million). responsibility efforts by way of strategic work and the discussion of individual matters. As part of its corporate social responsibility, Operating profit (EBIT) for 2019 amounted to NOK 3,634 million Avinor is working to reduce Norwegian aviation’s greenhouse gas (NOK 4,201 million). The reduction in operating profit is primarily emissions. Avinor is continuing its commitment to phasing in due to the above provisions for estimated clean-up costs. sustainable jet biofuel as well as national production based on Norwegian biomass (residues from timber). To support the developThe Group’s net financial costs in 2019 amounted to NOK -563 ment of sustainable jet biofuel based on Norwegian biomass, Avinor million (NOK -601 million). The change in financial income is due to has concluded an agreement with Quantafuel AS and undertaken reduced interest costs as a result of a reduction in interest-bearing to purchase NOK 8 million worth of fuel. Together with ENOVA, liabilities. Avinor will facilitate the development of sustainable fuel that can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. The Group’s cash flow in 2019 was positive at NOK 292 million (NOK 843 million) before changes for liabilities. Avinor paid NOK At the same time, the preparation of a “programme for the 585 million (NOK 250 million) in dividends to the state in 2019. introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation in Norway” has been commissioned by the Ministry of Transport and Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2019 amounted to Communications in co-operation with the Civil Aviation Authority. NOK 19,544 million, which is a decrease of NOK 691 million since COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 17 31 December 2018. The Group’s equity as at 31 December 2019 Avinor safeguards national sectoral policy objectives. The totalled NOK 44.2 billion (NOK 43.7 billion) with an equity ratio of Norwegian state sets guidelines for a number of conditions, 34.6 (33.3) per cent. Equity as a percentage of the sum of equity and including airport structure, emergency preparedness, aviation fees, interest-bearing liabilities pursuant to the definition in the Articles and corporate social responsibility. The scope and organisation of of Association was 45.9 (44.0) per cent as at 31 December 2019. sectoral policy guidelines may change over time. In light of developments in interest rate markets and other factors, The organisation’s capitalised infrastructure is long term, and equity was credited by NOK 621 million after tax as at 31 December the management of operations is largely governed by laws and 2019 through expanded profits. Much of this is due to positive regulations. As a result, Avinor has a high percentage of fixed estimate deviations in the calculation of pension obligations. In costs that vary to a limited extent with changes in traffic volumes addition, there has been an increase in the value of interest rate and capacity utilisation. The Group’s earnings and financial value derivatives as a result of changes in the interest rate market. As at are affected by changes in traffic volume. For risks related to the 31 December 2019, a discount rate of 2.3 per cent and a long-term ongoing coronavirus pandemic, please refer to the other sections expected wage growth of 2.3 per cent were applied when calculatof the report that address this, as well as to note 24 in the annual ing the Group’s pension obligations. accounts. As at 31 December 2019, the Group’s cash reserves amounted to There are technical, economic, and regulatory risks associated with NOK 5,659 million, distributed between NOK 1,059 million in bank development projects pertaining to air navigation services. deposits and NOK 4,600 million in unutilised drawing rights. Major airports are a key source of funding for the rest of the airport network in Norway. The earnings of major airports are especially ECONOMY AND FINANCES – AVINOR AS vulnerable to economic fluctuations and competition from airports outside of Avinor’s network. In 2019, the Parent Company – Avinor AS – had an operating income of NOK 10,481 million (NOK 10,397 million) and the profit Earnings from commercial offerings to passengers at the airafter tax was NOK 666 million (NOK 911 million). ports are very important to the Group’s funding. Changes to the framework conditions for the duty-free scheme in particular could The Parent Company’s balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 have a major impact on the Group’s earnings and economic value. amounted to NOK 42,043 million (NOK 42,035 million) with an All of Avinor’s income is invested in the development of Norwegian equity ratio of 34.5 per cent (33.2 per cent). aviation. In 2019, Avinor AS had a cash flow before the payment of dividends Financial hedging instruments are used to curtail risk related to and changes in liabilities of NOK 867 million (NOK 479 million). changes in interest, exchange rates, and energy prices. The value Dividends paid for the year amounted to NOK 585 million (NOK of hedging instruments changes in line with prices in the market 250 million). Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2019 and may affect profits. When investing the Group’s surplus cash, amounted to NOK 19,614 million (NOK 20,234 million). emphasis is given to the issuer’s solidity and the liquidity of the investment. The Group’s liquid assets are deposited in a bank on negotiated terms. APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT FOR THE YEAR In connection with the National Transport Plan (NTP) for 2018The Board proposes the following appropriation of profit for 2029, the Norwegian parliament approved the construction of a the year: new airport in Bodø in the first part of the NTP period (2018-2023). The state will allocate NOK 2.2 billion to the project, plus NOK In Group contributions: NOK 0.9 million 0.2 billion to the public search and rescue helicopter service. The To other reserves: NOK 665.2 million government assumes that Avinor will contribute NOK 1.4 billion, which corresponds to the estimated investment the current airport The annual financial statements have been prepared under the will need over the next few years in 2017 money, plus the value of assumption that the company will continue as a going concern on buildings and property in today’s airport. Discussions are underway the basis of forecasts and the calculated present value of estimated with the municipality of Bodø regarding local contributions for future cash flow. See note 11 to the annual financial statements for the project. It remains to be clarified how the local share of the further details. financing will be implemented. The Norwegian parliament passed a new law on public-sector RISKS occupational pension schemes on 21 June 2019. The law does not contain provisions for a new AFP scheme or special rules for those The Group’s operations are focused on safe air traffic management, born from 1963 onwards with a special age limit. Labour market with procedures and measures to minimise the risks and conseparties have commenced negotiations for a solution to the special quences of accidents and serious incidents. Developments with age limit with a view to reaching a solution by the winter of 2020. It regard to national and international regulatory issues may have is intended that the accrual rules that apply from 2020 shall apply financial consequences for the Group. to those with a special age limit who were born in 1963 or later. This means that accruals to the current scheme ended at the end of 2019. The contractual pension (AFP) for public-sector employees 18 AVINOR AS shall be in addition to the National Insurance Fund pension, occustates that the borrower must provide an account of its policies and pational pension, and any employment income. Although the new practices relating to corporate governance in a similar manner. The public-sector AFP is yet to be adopted, the labour market parties Norwegian Accounting Act is available at www.lovdata.no. Oslo agree that the public-sector AFP should be designed according to Børs’ regulations are available at www.oslobors.no. private-sector patterns. For more details about corporate governance in Avinor, please refer The airports have discharge permits that require risk assessments to the chapter “Corporate governance”. of acute pollution that represents a risk of damage to the external environment. Work is continuing on reducing the risk of incidents that harm the environment occurring, at the same time as existing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY pollution is being surveyed and cleaned up. Environmentally hazardous additives (PFAS) in fire-extinguishing foam which have Avinor’s corporate social responsibility efforts are based on the dispersed into the environment around the airport have been expectations set forth with regard to corporate social responsibility detected. Future clean-up costs are dependent on regulatory in Avinor’s Articles of Association, the Norwegian Accounting Act, requirements. The Norwegian Environment Agency has ordered the and the state’s ownership report (Meld. St. 8 2019-2020). Avinor implementation of measures at Harstad/Narvik Airport and Oslo takes the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business as the basis Airport and ordered action plans for Kristiansand and Svalbard for its corporate social responsibility efforts, and it signed up to the airports. For the remaining airports, the Norwegian Environment UN Global Compact in 2014. Avinor’s efforts cover areas such as Agency has issued an overarching order according to which Avinor human rights, employee rights and social conditions, the external must compile the results from completed PFAS surveys and draw environment, and combatting corruption. Most of the UN’s sustainup a prioritised series of measures. This was submitted to the able development goals (SDGs) are in line with Avinor’s goals for its Norwegian Environment Agency in the fourth quarter of 2019 and sustainability and corporate social responsibility. In particular, this will form the basis for its evaluation of what measures to impose on applies to SDG 9 on innovation and infrastructure, and SDG 13 to Avinor in relation to the clean-up. Based on the survey, a discrestop climate change. tionary assessment of the probable cost of the clean-up has been carried out and an accounting provision of NOK 871 million was For more information about Avinor’s work with corporate social made in the second quarter of 2019. A final decision has not been responsibility, including climate, environment, flight safety, HSE, taken by the Norwegian Environment Agency about the extent impartiality, anti-corruption, and safe notification, please refer to of the clean-up, which initiatives must be taken, or the deadlines the chapter on corporate social responsibility. Cf. Section 3-3c of the for these. In February 2020, the Norwegian Environment Agency Norwegian Accounting Act. assessed PFAS contamination and provided information on the process for further clean-up measures. On the basis of this, Avinor forecasts clean-up measures of the same magnitude as the basis for RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT the accounting provision. Avinor is implementing several projects to help optimise the use of Norwegian airspace. This work helps to improve safety, increase CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AVINOR capacity, streamline service delivery, and reduce environmental impact. Good corporate governance in Avinor aims to ensure that the maximum possible value is created and business risk is curtailed. For more information on Avinor’s research and development work, The company’s core values and ethics guidelines are a basic premise please refer to the chapter on corporate social responsibility. for corporate governance in Avinor. As the owner, the state focuses on ensuring that state-owned PERSONNEL AND ORGANISATION companies adhere to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance. The Board attaches importance to following this There were 3,012 permanent employees in the Group at the end recommendation regarding the Group’s corporate governance of the year. The average age of all employee groups in the Group wherever relevant. The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate is 46.8. The percentage of women among permanent employees Governance is available at www.nues.no. is 22.6 per cent. The proportion of women in executive positions is representative of the proportion of women in the Group. The Avinor has issued bonds that are listed on Oslo Børs and percentage of women employees is monitored closely. Avinor’s Luxembourg Børs. Oslo Børs has been chosen as the Group’s home recruitment policy contains clear guidelines that promote a gender market. The Group follows the recommendations of Oslo Børs balance, from the design of recruitment adverts to the interview with respect to corporate governance wherever relevant. Section and selection process. 3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting Act stipulates that companies under a statutory accounting obligation which issue securities in Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal opporaccordance with Section 5-4 of the Securities Trading Act must tunities in the Group, irrespective of their gender, age, disability, provide a report on their policies and practices for corporate ethnicity, or cultural background. Avinor conducts systematised governance either in their annual report or in a document referred performance reviews that ensure neutral salary and career develto in their annual report. Point 3.10 in Oslo Børs’ document entitled opment. Employee surveys confirm that employees enjoy equal “Bond regulations – entry requirements and ongoing obligations” opportunities. Commitment within the Group is high. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 19 Avinor is keen to ensure an Inclusive Labour Market and strives OUTLOOK AND GENERAL CONDITIONS to prevent exclusion from the labour market. This is especially relevant for employees who no longer meet physical or medical Mobility and efficient air transport are essential for social developrequirements due to illness or other conditions. ment, as well as for the growth of the Norwegian travel industry and businesses. Avinor is upgrading and developing its airport network Avinor’s strategy for the period 2018 to 2023 accounts for a high to facilitate good regional, national, and international air services. turnover rate in connection with the introduction of new technolFurthermore, aviation depends on innovation and technological ogy, innovation, and cost-cutting. An Avinor-wide cost reduction advances in order to meet its own targets for reduced emissions programme was initiated in 2019 in order to ensure future competand expected traffic growth. Alongside the airlines, the Civil itiveness. Co-operation with employee representatives is characterAviation Authority, and other stakeholders in Norwegian aviation, ised by frequent meetings, large numbers of cases, and demanding Avinor has been an active contributor for several years in internarestructuring both in terms of ongoing case management and tional efforts relating to the climate and is at the forefront of paving more extensive change processes. The improvement of processes the way for sustainable aviation in the future. is a focus area for Avinor, the objective being to create a shared culture for improvement throughout the Group. Developments The company’s operation of airports for airlines and passengers is in technology and digitalisation demand an extensive skills boost subject to economic upswings and downturns and a clear expecacross the entire Group. In 2019, Avinor began introducing several tation of competitive levels of pricing. Avinor’s primary focus is to new systems, collaboration platforms, and various apps for skills provide continuity and ensure that operations continue throughout development. The leadership development programme and Avinor’s the coronavirus pandemic. Operations and infrastructure are being management platform are being rolled out throughout the line adjusted according to the reduction in traffic volumes in order to organisation with an emphasis on the challenges faced by the units minimise our employees’ exposure to the virus as well as to ensure as a result of changes. a pool of reserve personnel who can cover for those who fall ill or must enter self-isolation. The company’s profits and solvency Absence due to illness in 2019 was 5.3 per cent in Avinor AS and 3.7 will be greatly affected by this situation in 2020, and so there will per cent in Avinor Flysikring AS. The Group systematically monitors be a need to bolster equity and liquidity during the year. Avinor how working hours are planned. Training among managers and has maintained constant dialogue with its owner during the first shift planners has been implemented in vulnerable units. In the quarter of 2020 in respect of measures to bolster the Group’s equity Group overall, there was a fall in the number of breaches of working and liquidity. Cost-reduction measures will be considered on an hours provisions in 2019. ongoing basis. Avinor must be a professional and attractive employer. For more information on Avinor as an employer, please refer to the chapter on corporate social responsibility. The Board would like to thank all the employees and partners for their efforts in 2019. Oslo, 31 March 2020 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 20 AVINOR AS Sustainable value creation In accordance with its obligation to society, Avinor will facilitate further development and expected growth in air traffic. This must not conflict with national climate targets and international climate commitments. Avinor is aware of the challenges facing the Group when sustainaemphasis on the importance of aviation for economic growth and bility objectives dictate that we must prepare for further developcompetitiveness in Europe towards an increased emphasis on ment and anticipated growth in air travel while ensuring that this sustainability and the climate is a clear shift. does not conflict with national climate targets and international climate commitments. Aviation will contribute to the growth and As aviation is fundamental to the development of Norway, Avinor transformation of Norwegian society and business as a whole. has for several years been an active contributor to international Furthermore, the industry depends on innovation and technologiefforts relating to the climate and is at the forefront of paving cal advances in order to meet its own targets for reduced emissions the way for sustainable aviation in the future, alongside airlines, and expected traffic growth in the foreseeable future. the Civil Aviation Authority, and other aviation stakeholders. Electrification of aviation and increased use of sustainable jet The European Commission’s European Green Deal provides clear biofuels are key elements in these efforts. In addition, Avinor has political guidance and expects a high level of environmental contributed to efforts to draft the Airport Council International’s and climate awareness in the aviation sector. The move from an sustainability strategy. Work on this strategy was completed in COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 21 2019. It includes specific guidance and recommendations for and central businesses, the Norwegian Armed Forces, research airports on how they can help achieve the industry’s climate targets environments, and special interest groups. for carbon-neutral growth. Dialogue at the political level primarily takes place through Avinor’s owner, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, ASSESSMENT OF KEY FACTORS in the Norwegian parliament, and through the Transport and Communications Committee in consultation with the Ministry The assessment of key factors involves assessing which tasks are of Transport and Communications. Stakeholder dialogue at the important and prioritising them. Taking into consideration Avinor’s political and government levels primarily takes place by way of social obligation, it is essential to prioritise efforts that will have the fixed meetings, under the auspices of the Board and executive most impact for society and the company.,. management. In addition, there is extensive dialogue with the political and administrative management at the local, municipal, Avinor primarily assesses key factors in connection with the review and county levels. Avinor is working to strengthen and systematise of the Group’s strategic plans. This work involves the owner, Board, this dialogue. executive management, and employees, as well as Avinor’s primary stakeholders. The Group’s strategic plan for 2018-2023 is characterBusiness policy committees have been established in several ised by clear priorities that are assessed more frequently than before municipalities and counties where Avinor is represented. Here, in order to ensure necessary adjustments in line with more general local political stakeholders are also represented. The primary focus developments. The primary objectives of Avinor’s corporate strategy is capacity and route development, as well as how Avinor can help for 2018-2023 are: to support the development of local and regional commerce. · Social development: contributing to the sustainable growth of There are several formal and informal fora for dialogue with airlines. Norway and its regions A co-operation forum that meets four to six times a year has been established as the highest level. This is where Avinor’s executive · Business development: creating valuable experiences for passenmanagement meets with management of the airlines. A separate gers and visitors committee – the AOC (Airline Operators Committee) – that also meets regularly, has been established at the biggest airports. · Airport development: developing a competitive company Climate and environment issues, fees, traffic development, and airport capacity are all key topics in Avinor’s dialogue with airlines. · Organisational development: developing a proud and improvement-oriented corporate culture Dialogue with passengers takes place by way of regular customer surveys and meetings with stakeholder organisations. Passengers Avinor’s goals and the measures it takes are reflected in the Group’s are especially concerned about punctuality and regularity, airport corporate governance, which sets out these goals and measures, services, parking, and ground transport. and are systematically followed up by the executive management and the Board. Dialogue with suppliers of Avinor’s goods and services takes place by way of formal meetings, through negotiations, and through contract follow-up. Focus is particularly on the competitive basis, DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS as well as templates and procedures relating to processes and deliveries. Efforts to combat corruption and ensure that working Effective dialogue with those who depend on Avinor’s services or conditions are in line with universal human rights and current who, in various ways, are affected by our operations, is essential agreements applicable in the workplace are a key element of the for Avinor to be able to prioritise those things that best serve our dialogue. stakeholders and society. Within the Group, the model of co-operation between employee Dialogue meetings are held regularly in order to understand and representatives and management is being further developed in identify the value creating factors that are most important to order to ensure good working conditions, stable operations, and Avinor’s stakeholders. In addition, major analyses of stakeholders or cost-effectiveness. Three of the eight representatives in Avinor key factors are undertaken, most recently in connection with efforts Group’s Board of Directors represent Avinor’s employees. The Board related to the Group’s strategic plan for 2018-2023. Furthermore, of Directors of Avinor Air Navigation Services also has employmarket and customer analyses are carried out regularly. ee-elected Board members. Avinor’s most important stakeholders are its customers – both airlines and their passengers – politicians, airport partners, local 22 AVINOR AS FOUR KEY AREAS IN CORPORATE UN’s sustainable development goals RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS In 2015, the UN adopted new sustainable development goals (SDGs) up to 2030. The 17 goals and 169 sub-goals, which concern Through its assessment of key factors and stakeholder dialogue, most areas of society, see the environment, economy, and social Avinor has identified four priority areas in its corporate responsibildevelopment as a whole. Most of the SDGs are in line with Avinor’s ity efforts. own goals for its corporate responsibility. This applies particularly to SDG 9 on innovation and infrastructure and SDG 13 on stopping · Fulfilment of Avinor’s societal obligation: ensure good climate change. Avinor is focusing on these goals. The overview of aviation services for the whole of Norway in a safe, efficient, goals and results on pages 23 to 25 documents how Avinor’s own and sustainable way goals cohere with other SDGs. · be a driving force behind efforts relating to the challenges faced by aviation in the field of climate and the environment The Executive Vice President for Communications and Markets · be a good and professional employer is responsible for monitoring and reporting on Avinor’s corporate · ensure sustainable finances and responsible business conduct responsibility efforts. Work relating to the individual topics takes place within the line organisation and in the various professional environments. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING In its efforts relating to corporate responsibility, Avinor adheres to OECD guidelines for responsible business and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. These are, in turn, based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s conventions on fundamental principles and rights at work, the Rio Declaration, and the UN Convention against Corruption. This report has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (Standards/Core). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 23 Goals and results for corporate social responsibility in 2019 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2019 Punctuality: 88 per cent 84 per cent Regularity: 98 per cent 98 per cent All airports shall be certified in · Centralised environmental management and airport operations are certified in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard standard · In 2019, the certification company RISE completed a certification audit, and Avinor was re-certified for a further three-year period Air transport must be accessible to · Survey conducted pursuant to regulations on universal design everyone · Building-related measures implemented · Maintenance programme commenced in 2019 · Analyses exploring which digital solutions may be worth investing in Avinor must streamline, modernise, and · Facilitating increased non-Schengen traffic at Avinor Oslo Airport invest in increased capacity · Outline project for a new airport in Bodø · A new terminal has been approved for Tromsø Airport · Runway extension approved at Kirkenes Airport · Operations at Haugesund Airport tendered out to Lufthavndrift AS · Centre for remotely operated towers established in Bodø Røst Airport remotely operated from 2019 · Tower service at Kristiansand and Ålesund taken over by Spanish operator SAERCO Oslo Airport aims to be among the top · Oslo Airport climbed two places to 20th place for 2019 10 in Europe for customer satisfaction Avinor must prevent unwanted · There were no aviation accidents and one serious aviation incident in incidents and ensure good emergency Norwegian aviation to which Avinor Air Navigation Services was a contributing preparedness party in 2019 24 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2019 By 2022, Avinor must halve its total · Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations controllable greenhouse gas emissions as totalled 13,530 tons of CO2 equivalents. compared with 2012 and help to reduce · Greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuels for civilian purposes produced emissions from ground transport and air 2.85 million tons of CO2 equivalents. traffic · Share of public transport 72 per cent at Oslo airport Avinor must reduce purchased energy by · Avinor’s total energy consumption fell by 4 per cent between 2018 and 2019 25 per cent by 2020 compared with the · Several management measures at Oslo Airport have resulted in a total saving energy consumption of its buildings and of 1.4 GWh/year facilities in 2012 · Elnett21 project at Stavanger Airport Activities at Avinor’s airports must not · Breaches of aircraft de-icing conditions at eight airports and runway de-icing result in any new ground contamination conditions at two airports or worsening of water quality · PFAS report completed for 39 airports · PFAS clean-up measures at several airports · New PFAS surveys at several airports · PFOS removed at Oslo Airport Avinor shall work actively to reduce · The proportion of curved approaches was 6.1 per cent in 2019 the impact of noise from aircraft and · Curved approaches were implemented at Trondheim Airport Værnes in 2019 helicopter traffic on those living in the vicinity of airports COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 25 Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2019 Absence due to illness of 4.5 per cent · 4.8 per cent or lower H1 value < 2 · H1 value 3.9 H2 value < 10 · H2 value 8.2 Reduce breaches of working hours · In the Group overall, there was a fall in the number of breaches of working provisions hours provisions in 2019 The percentage of women in the Group · Proportion of women 22.6 per cent shall reach 25 per cent in 2020 Prevent HSE non-compliance, personal · During the period, there were 11 injuries that resulted in absence from Avinor injuries, and work-related illness AS, one of which was serious. Five internal investigations have been carried out following HSE incidents Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2019 Employees, suppliers, and partners must · Expanded anti-corruption programme be familiar with and comply with Avinor’s · Corruption risk monitoring implemented ethics guidelines · Risk-and-vulnerability analysis implemented for corruption and fraud Avinor shall have effective procedures · Development of electronic courses for the management of reprehensible · Avinor’s contracting parties must sign an agreement on responsible business actions or situations in all parts of the practices organisation Avinor will work to combat anti· Committee set up to process reports competitive behaviour · In 2019, the committee received just under 130 notifications. All the notifications have been processed. · Compliance function established Avinor shall ensure the responsible · Group-wide GDPR compliance project completed processing of personal data · Avinor did not receive any complaints concerning breaches of its customers’ privacy in 2019 26 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway Safe and stable operations form the basis for Avinor’s business. In close co-operation with airlines and other partners, Norwegian aviation will evolve within key areas such as climate, capacity, and competitiveness. Avinor ensures funding for a network of small and large airports customer insight and customer dialogue and developed digital throughout Norway. At the same time, the Group prioritises platforms for communications and sales. important initiatives for ensuring the sustainable development of Norwegian aviation. Avinor sees this as an important part of its Good passenger experiences at Avinor’s airports social obligation. With customer orientation as a key value and the travel experiences of passengers as a strategic primary goal, Avinor is working continuously to maintain its place for providing some of the best CONTRIBUTING TO THE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH passenger experiences in Europe. OF NORWAY AND ITS REGIONS Airport Service Quality (ASQ) The flying habits of Norwegians have been relatively stable in recent The ASQ survey is the only worldwide survey that provides airports years, with an average of one domestic and one international return with specific feedback across several categories relating to passenger trip per year. The number of foreigners arriving in Norway who go satisfaction. Around 350 airports from all over the world participate on to travel domestically in Norway has increased. There is huge in the survey, making it a valuable tool for measuring Avinor’s potential for an increase in inbound aviation tourism. The ripple performance against other airports. Most airports now recognise that effect of this is wide, as aviation tourists spend a lot of money in passenger satisfaction is key to success in a competitive industry, and Norway. The majority of aviation tourists arrive in Norway via Oslo the performance of our peers has steadily increased in recent years. Airport. Some also arrive by way of direct international routes to and from other parts of Norway. New routes have helped to increase Bergen Airport Flesland and Oslo Airport both scored 4.21 on a inbound tourism and are important for the development of regional scale of 1-5 for overall passenger satisfaction in 2019, which places businesses and industries. these airports in the 27th and 28th place respectively out of 115 airports in Europe. Although both these airports improved their The Group’s strategy for northern areas was revised in 2019, and customer satisfaction scores compared to the previous year, they the Group has been in close dialogue with municipalities, county are moving down the rankings as other European airports make councils, and business and industry. This has provided a good basis greater progress. Overall, Avinor’s airports as a whole fall roughly for understanding the region’s need for capacity expansion and within the top third of European airports for passenger satisfaction. initiatives. In 2019, in collaboration with the seafood industry and county ASQ OVERALL SATISFACTION – AVERAGE 8 LARGEST AIRPORTS councils, Avinor examined the conditions for transporting seafood Score for customer satisfaction on a scale 1-5, where the score 4 has the description very good by air directly from airports in Northern Norway. 4,4 PassengerSupplies from strategy passenger4,2 adopted strategy CREATING VALUABLE EXPERIENCES FOR 4,0 PASSENGERS AND VISITORS 3,8 Commercial income from activities at the airports makes up 54 3,6 per cent of the Group’s revenue base and is essential to Avinor’s 3,4 New New effective and predictable fulfilment of its social obligation. The Oslo Bergen Airport Airport objective is to maintain a level of income growth beyond that 3,2 07.2012 01.2013 07.2013 resulting from traffic growth and price rises. This requires inter01.2014 07.2014 01.2015 07.2015 02.2016 05.2016 08.2016 11.2016 02.2017 05.2017 08.2017 vention in existing revenue streams and the development of new 11.2017 02.2018 05.2018 08.2018 11.2018 02.2019 05.2019 08.2019 11.2019 products and services. Enhanced skills, chain operations with the efficient sharing of expertise, and digital solutions are all important Oslo lufthavn Bergen Airport Weighted average measures. In the last period, Avinor focused on efforts related to COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 27 Airport assistant at Oslo airport Targeted measures and impact measurement provided to customers within the airport’s range of stores and In 2019, a new working methodology was put into use in order to catering outlets, store managers receive regular and systematic leverage insight into the passenger experience even more thordigital feedback on what was perceived as good, as well as input oughly as part of efforts to prioritise investments and operating on areas that could be improved to further enhance the customer activities. Workshops with the largest airports have drafted relevant experience. The service observations are followed up with regular customer insights, which are then discussed in the light of local training for operations managers in sales and service management, experience. Focus areas and priorities for the airports are then who together with other service employees use the insights gained jointly prepared for the next period. The impact of measures that in their work to provide good customer experiences as part of dayhave been implemented is measured and experiences are shared to-day airport operations. between the airports in order to leverage a Group-wide benefit. With this working methodology we want to achieve better accuracy For Avinor overall, the ambassador score (overall customer experiin our passenger experience initiatives, share our experiences more ence) increased in 2019 to 63 per cent. This is an improvement of 12 effectively, and accelerate the learning curve. per cent compared to 2018, the first year of the initiative. The ongoing target for the initiative is an ambassador score of 70 per cent. Good airport hospitality When creating great travel experiences, the human factor is as In September 2019, Avinor conducted a user survey of the proimportant as having a nice terminal and seamless processes. We gramme’s 300 participants. The responses of the 129 representatives have worked to develop Avinor’s key role as a host at our airports from store and chain management and from Avinor internally show and have invited all our partners to join us in an effort to create that the initiative has been very well received. Similarly, the venture great travel experiences. After a pilot period before the summer of with RetailX has improved our partners’ performance and the 2018 in Oslo and Bergen with a systematic focus on the role of aircustomer experience. ports as hosts, the experiences gained were used to further develop tools and materials in 2019. Avinor has subsequently expanded the The digital journey initiative to several of its largest airports. In light of the constant increase in passengers’ use and expectations of digital services, Avinor has made it possible to order a growing Service observations and service training number of products and services via digital channels. Our joint Efforts to support the role as hosts among stores and catering passenger app for all Avinor’s airports has been expanded to include outlets at Avinor’s nine largest airports continued unabated in 2019 new features such as planning transport to the airport and contact following the start of the partnership with RetailX in the summer with the assistance service. The app gets great feedback from users, of 2018. Based on frequent observations of the quality of service with 4.5 out of 5 stars in the App Store. In our online shop, users can 28 AVINOR AS buy parking with additional services and pre-order food and drink, Safe, stable, and efficient operations are always first priority. At the as well as use click-and-collect when pre-ordering duty-free goods same time, the business must be continuously developed to meet and several other products such as electronics and gifts. the demands and expectations of its owner, public authorities, airlines, passengers, and the surrounding areas of the airports. An More than 160,000 newsletters are sent out each month and increasingly strong focus on the climate and environment, together adapted based on which airport is located closest to a given cuswith the need for increased efficiency, places great demands on tomer. The response to the newsletters confirms that our customers shortand long-term planning. are interested in information and offers from Avinor and want a relationship beyond what they experience at the airport itself. All Developing Oslo Airport Avinor’s digital passenger communications are subject to applicable Avinor will continue its efforts to develop Oslo Airport as an imporprivacy legislation. tant national and international hub. Norway has the strongest domestic market in the Nordic region, and this is a good foundation Avinor in social media for several international routes from Oslo Airport. One objective is The expectations of digital services also apply to Avinor’s social that as many passengers as possible can reach their final destinamedia presence. Many passenger enquiries are received through tion as easily and efficiently as possible. these channels, hence it is important to ensure that their questions are answered. Avinor’s objective is to facilitate a pleasant and In recent years, traffic to and from countries outside of the seamless journey, such as by way of simple procedures, self-service Schengen Area at Oslo Airport has grown more than traffic within solutions, good accessibility, and relevant information. Activity it. On 1 October 2018, work started on the extension project and customer service on social media help to simplify passenger Expansion Non-Schengen East at Oslo Airport. The project consists journeys and create the sense that the passenger is looked after of a building of about 30,000 square metres linked to the eastern even before they arrive at the airport. end of the terminal. Construction work is scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 2022. The expansion will increase capacity Avinor daily shares travel-related information and tips for pasto approximately 8 million passengers per year. sengers on social media. The content is informative and provides entertainment for those who follow Avinor. At the end of 2019, Oslo Avinor endeavours to improve the attractiveness of air cargo Airport’s Facebook page had more than 181,000 followers and is the activities. In 2019, 100,000 tonnes of seafood were shipped to global largest social channel in the Group. markets directly from the airport. Cargo volumes grew by 2 per cent during the year. AVINOR’S SPONSORSHIPS On Sunday 11 August 2019, Oslo Airport’s eastern runway reopened to normal traffic after being closed for resurfacing for six weeks. Avinor’s sponsorships are primarily targeted at local recreational Despite the scale of the project, passengers were largely unaware of activities, social initiatives, and sport for children and young people the extensive work that was going on. The work required a total of in the areas surrounding our airports. Many of Avinor’s airports 85,000 tonnes of asphalt and all 950 runway lights were removed. contributed to such sponsorships in 2019. In addition, each airport While the work was underway, aircraft could take off in both has local agreements with teams and organisations in the local area directions using the temporary runway, Runway Center, 209 metres related to the return of deposit bottles. to the west. The use of the taxiway as a temporary runway proved to be a very successful move, with no impact on the summer traffic. At our head office in Oslo, Avinor works with the Church City Mission through the Work on the zoning plan for a possible third runway east of the current eastern runway has been put on hold pending the clarification Neighbour Co-operation in Bjørvika project. There are also separate of the location by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. activities for children and young people under the auspices of the As agreed with the ministry, during the autumn of 2019 Avinor Church City Mission, with which Avinor employees are involved. updated the knowledge base for eastern and western alternatives. The 2019 Christmas present also went to the Church City Mission’s This is included as background material in the ministry’s clarifica“Gled en som gruer seg til jul” (Make someone happy who is tion of the location of a possible third runway. dreading Christmas) campaign. New Bodø Airport Additionally, the Avinor Group also supports the television In connection with the closure of Bodø airbase and the Norwegian campaign every year. Armed Forces’ subsequent disposal of state property, Bodø Municipality has taken the initiative to relocate Bodø Airport The environmental organisations Zero and Bellona receive financial and free up plots of land close to the city centre for development. support from Avinor and give Avinor professional assistance According to the NTP for 2018 to 2029, the state will contribute in, for example, efforts relating to the development of biofuel. NOK 2.4 billion, of which NOK 0.2 billion is allocated for the transfer Furthermore, Avinor supports the yearly Sola Conference and Flight of the rescue helicopter service. Avinor will provide funding for a Operations Forum events. share equivalent to the investment needs at the current airport for a twenty-year period. The remainder will be covered by local funding. DEVELOPING A COMPETITIVE COMPANY The Ministry of Transport and Communications has tasked Avinor with the continued planning of the move with the aim of conductAvinor operates and develops a nationwide network of airports that ing a concession application. As a result, Avinor has prepared an are subject to challenging weather and topographic conditions. outline project and started work on a preparatory project. The COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 29 project will undergo external quality assurance in accordance In June 2019, Avinor published a choice-of-concept study (CCS) for with the state’s quality assurance scheme for major state investairport solutions in Hammerfest. Its conclusion is to not recomment projects. The cost of the project is being explored as part of mend the construction of a new airport. With the measures that are planning efforts. already underway and the planned measures, the current airport will have sufficient capacity for the foreseeable future. The study is A partnership is underway with the municipality of Bodø and the included in efforts relating to the NTP for 2022 to 2033. Norwegian Defence Estates Agency to establish a joint financing solution. Assuming the cost of the project is within acceptable Operations at Fagernes Airport formally came to an end on 1 July limits and that funding can be established in time, the aim is for 2018 as no local operators had come forward to take over. In addition, the new airport to open by 2026, with a capacity of 2.5 million the Norwegian parliament decided that Avinor is to maintain the passengers. technical and operational status of Fagernes Airport for up to three years after the closure, so that any takeover and reopening by local Other airports stakeholders is as smooth as possible. The state budget for 2020 As a follow-up to Avinor’s Northern Area Strategy and the NTP, the determined that Avinor can sell Fagernes Airport by way of an open decision has been made to build a new terminal at Tromsø Airport. tender. Avinor aims to complete the sale in 2020 so that both Avinor Work will start in the autumn of 2020, with completion scheduled and a new owner can prepare for the acquisition by 30 June 2021. for 2023. An extension of the runway at Kirkenes Airport has also been approved, with completion scheduled for 2021. NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS Furthermore, the possibility of a new major airport in Lofoten/ Vesterålen will be explored. The project’s steering group recomAvinor undertakes a number of tasks on behalf of the Norwegian mends a new major airport at Leknes and a new road solution state that do not follow directly from its social obligation and which between Svolvær and Leknes. The report is complete and has been comparable airport and air navigation operators are not required submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications for to do. The tasks include announcement services for airports and further consideration. airspace, simplified transfers at Oslo Airport (customs), studies for the Ministry of Transport and Communications, emergency In February 2019, the government gave the green light for a tender preparedness for ambulance aircraft, activities related to defence process under the auspices of Polarsirkelen lufthavnutvikling operations, and various tasks related to air navigation services. AS (PLU) for the construction of the Arctic Circle Airport in the These tasks cost the Group in the region of NOK 300 million per municipality of Rana. The airports Mo i Rana and Mosjøen will year. Avinor currently finances these costs in part through aviation enjoy upgrades to the tune of NOK 70 million to ensure their stable fees and in part through commercial revenues. and safe operation in anticipation of the new airport. At Haugesund Airport, the government has decided to hand over AIR NAVIGATION all operations to a party other than Avinor by way of competitive tendering, which is known as a service concession model. On 12 In 2014 Avinor’s air navigation operations were separated into May 2019, Avinor handed over the operation of Haugesund Airport a separate subsidiary, Avinor Air Navigation Services (AFAS), to the local operator Lufthavndrift AS. Avinor still owns the airport in order to facilitate competition for tower services, establish a property, which it leases to the local company. clear distinction between supplier and recipient in relation to air navigation services, and adapt the business in relation to pan-EuroThe Norwegian parliament has decided to establish an advanced pean requirements for streamlining the service. AFAS is responsible base (QRA) for the Norwegian Armed Forces’ new F-35 military for air navigation in Norwegian airspace and provides services fighter at Harstad/Narvik Airport, and for the base for surveillance to both civil and military aviation. The Ministry of Transport and aircraft (MPA) to be moved from Andøya air base to Harstad/ Communications will evaluate an alternative ownership structure Narvik. This means that the Norwegian Armed Forces must make for air navigation operations. Avinor is investigating various alterseveral investments at the airport. The future investment and natives on behalf of the ministry. The work is due for completion in operational needs of the Norwegian Armed Forces has a major the first quarter of 2020. impact on civilian operations at the airport. The establishment of an emergency base at Harstad/Narvik Airport is particularly Postponement of tender for tower services challenging and requires close co-operation between the parties. In an international context, en-route navigation services are largely provided by state service providers within their own national Andøya airbase is owned and run by the Norwegian Armed Forces airspace. The market for tower services, on the other hand, has and, according to the plans of the Norwegian Armed Forces, is been opened to competition and navigation, surveillance, and scheduled for closure in mid-2022. However, the airport shall communications services are evolving. continue to operate to facilitate the development of the Andøya Space Center and Andøya Test Center. In addition, the Norwegian So far, Avinor AS has put tower services for Ålesund Airport and Armed Forces have indicated that there is a need for Andøya to Kristiansand Airport up for tender with the aim of continuing this serve as a base in the event of an emergency. This means that the process by putting tower as well as air navigation services up for size requirements are greater than those of civil aviation. There tender. may be changes in the requirements of civil aviation through the development of Andøya, in particular through the establishment of The ownership report allows AFAS to participate in tenders for a drone centre, satellite launch facilities, the expansion of Andenes tower and approach services internationally. In line with this, AFAS fishing port, and a possible civil aviation school. has established a subsidiary in Spain together with a local Spanish 30 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 31 partner in order to participate in tenders for tower services at Avinor’s assistance service, combined with universal design, provides Spanish airports and in the rest of Europe. passengers with reduced mobility with a safe and secure environment. This is a comprehensive service from the passenger’s arrival at Investment in remotely operated the airport until they are safely on board the aircraft. Co-operation towers and new ATM system and dialogue take place centrally within the PRM forum, as well as in In collaboration with AFAS, Avinor AS has invested in and Flygruppa, which represents organisations, airlines, and Avinor. developed remotely operated towers. On 19 October 2019, Røst Airport became the first to have its tower remotely operated from The development of information and guidance through various Bodø Remote Tower Center. Fifteen of Avinor’s airports have been digital channels is helping more and more people to get where selected in the first phase with the aim of introducing the concept they’re going of their own accord. Analyses have been conducted at a further ten airports in the next phase. The introduction of in 2019 to look at which solutions may be worth focusing on in the remotely operated towers is expected to improve availability for years to come. airspace users, improve expertise in air traffic services, and avoid investments in solutions that are due to be phased out. In the long run, remotely operated towers will result in lower operating costs IMPACT OF WEATHER ON PUNCTUALITY than the use of traditional technology. Average punctuality for all of Avinor’s airports was 84 per cent in AFAS is investing in new technology for en-route navigation 2019. This is the highest in Europe. Avinor’s Group-wide targets for services through partnerships with other European air navigation punctuality (departure within 15 minutes of scheduled departure) is providers. In addition to meeting pan-European requirements, this 88 per cent. Achieving this target depends on the combined efforts shift in technology will help to improve security and efficiency and of the airports, airlines, and providers of airport-related services. reduce prices for airspace users. Avinor’s air navigation services The weather also plays a role. Climate change is presenting ever have one of the lowest unit rates in Western Europe. Negative traffic more challenging weather conditions. Reduced punctuality is also growth in 2019 and expected weak growth over the next five years, linked to traffic challenges in Europe as well as internal challenges combined with high levels of investment as a result of the transition among the operators within Avinor’s network. to a new ATM system, will put pressure on the unit rate. This means that gains from the new ATM system will not materialise until the For regularity – which measures the percentage of scheduled flights period 2025-2029, once the new system is in place. that actually operate – Avinor has a target of 98 per cent. In 2019, the rate of regularity for all the airports was 98 per cent. This figure has hardly changed in recent years. ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL – UNIVERSAL DESIGN Universal design is an important requirement in Avinor’s efforts to FLIGHT SAFETY enable everyone to travel and participate in everything society has to offer. Avinor’s building stock, especially at local and regional airports, The regulatory requirements in the area of flight safety follow from was largely built before universal design became a central concept. Norway’s international obligations through the EEA and ICAO (the A substantial step up is needed to meet current requirements. UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation). The Civil Aviation Authority implements provisions that Avinor is required to comply Avinor has conducted a monitoring process pursuant to the with based on these obligations. Avinor plays an active role in Regulations on the universal design of airports and the rights of international efforts, such as in the development of new aviation-redisabled people in relation to air transport of 16 July 2013. Based on lated regulations in Europe. The term “flight safety” encompasses the deviations found, building-related measures are being impleboth safety and security. mented as part of Avinor’s maintenance programme. The maintenance programme is a multi-year project which started in 2019. For Safety is Avinor’s top priority and is linked to our strategic area of new buildings and major redevelopments, Avinor applies building the safe, efficient, and stable operation at our airports. Flight safety standards that meet, among other things, the requirements of and risk management are constantly being worked with in order universal design. Emphasis is placed on co-operation with national to ensure that Avinor’s services are carried out and delivered at and regional user forums such as the Norwegian Federation of an acceptable or improved level of flight safety. This helps reduce Organisations of Disabled People (FFO), the Norwegian Association the likelihood of injury and/or damage to property and critical of the Disabled (NAD), and the Norwegian Association of the Blind. infrastructure and reduce the impact should an incident occur. Through standardised solutions, Avinor wants to help make its An overview of the operational risks is established at all Avinor’s airports as predictable and readable as possible for all travellers. airports in accordance with EU regulations. Proactive and targeted Efforts are made to link our standards with international standards management alongside the overview and control of hazards and so that foreign passengers are also catered for. the risks they pose will contribute to a sustained and improved level of safety. This overview of risks can be monitored at several Terminal design and boarding solutions are key to getting levels in the organisation. The framework for managing operational passengers on board aircraft effectively. There is an emphasis on risks is continuously being developed. universal design in connection with the development of new types of technical solutions, commercial requirements, and desired Better reports have been developed as information for management passenger flows. While passenger bridges will be adapted at large within various professions and focus areas, including flight safety. and medium-sized airports, ramps and electric stair climbers will The reports provide a clear picture of the challenges and make work for smaller airports. This will enable everyone to board aircraft follow-ups and monitoring easier. In addition, the flight safety in a way that is adapted to them. status can be displayed “live” in meetings. 32 AVINOR AS Operational risk management is also proactively integrated into in national and European efforts to put in place regulations for the flight safety efforts. This is supported by several new reports (Power safe use of drones. New European regulations for drones come into BI) for the monitoring and presentation of the airports’ operational effect on 1 July 2020 and will be applicable in Norway. Avinor has risks. These are used in local and central safety and quality meetings begun investigating drone use at some airports. This will help to with the level of detail in the reports adapted accordingly. identify the dangers and risks associated with drones. The project seeks to identify effective measures and draws on experience from The review and ongoing improvement of the safety management other airports in Norway and internationally. system, including the management of flight safety, continued in 2019. Focus areas in air navigation ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AVIATION INCIDENTS With the aim of providing a comprehensive approach to risk management, Avinor has established safety levels and links between There were no aviation accidents and one serious aviation incident proactive and reactive safety activities. in Norwegian aviation to which Avinor Air Navigation Services was a contributing party in 2019. A scheduled flight to Oslo Airport Exceedances of aircraft spacing minimums entered Norwegian airspace without the flight being known to There has been special emphasis on the risk of exceeding aircraft air traffic control services. The aircraft was not identified on the spacing minimums – i.e. aircraft getting too close to each other radar and the symbol observed had no association, meaning that – by way of the close monitoring of late detected conflicts, which there were no details on the flight that were to be co-ordinated in have the potential to develop into an exceedance. advance. The situation was discovered late and the incident was allowed to develop over time. The incident prompted an extensive Runway incursions investigation and the management team of Avinor Air Navigation In 2019, Avinor Air Navigation Services implemented a number of Services presented 11 measures to be taken. These are either in the measures to reduce the risk of runway incursions with substantial process of being followed up or have already been implemented and efforts in relevant interfaces. Implementation of the new TRAC completed. communication platform on iPads in the Tower business area has enabled a more varied and dynamic form of communication than The reporting rate has been very good and the degree of severity in before. aviation incidents has never been lower. Common to the focus areas mentioned above is that the data for 2019 now shows a clear decline in the severity of these types of PROPORTION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT events. Alongside this, we recorded a significant increase in the NORWAY’S FOUR LARGEST AIRPORTS number of reported aviation incidents. This shows that Avinor Air Navigation Services has an entrenched reporting culture. AVIATION AVIATION ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS NOT SERIOUS INVOLVING INVOLVING Drones AVIATION INCIDENTS PERSONAL INJURY PERSONAL INJURY The unauthorised use of drones poses a potential risk of accidents 2019 1 0 0 and serious incidents. Avinor Air Navigation Services is putting 2018 0 0 0 substantial effort and resources into minimising this risk by, for example, raising awareness and competence and contributing 2017 3 0 0 to the drafting of relevant regulations and procedures, as well as Serious aviation incidents, aviation accidents not involving personal injury, and working closely with the user environment, public authorities, and aviation accidents involving personal injury where Avinor was a contributing party. other service providers. Avinor Air Navigation Services has acquired The terms “serious aviation incident” and “aviation accident” follow the definitions a traffic management system, Unmanned Traffic Management in Regulation (EU) No. 996/2010. (UTM), for drones that will be implemented in 2020. The results of safety culture surveys were followed up locally with AUDITS central support during the year. In addition, safety culture workshops were carried out in the autumn for all operatives of eastern Regular audits are carried out within both units and subject-specific sector group at Norway Control. areas as one of several measures to maintain a good safety culture and a high level of flight safety. The purpose of audits is to ensure Avinor Air Navigation Services has selected a drone system supplier regulatory and legal compliance, as well as optimal governance in and will be the first flight safety provider in the Nordic countries to respect of the company’s targets. In addition, audits help to bring use advanced technology to ensure the safer integration of drones about improvements within the scope of Avinor’s certifications. within airspace. The use of drones in the airspace around airports is increasing and expected to grow further in the coming years. An audit programme is established each year in accordance with The operators and users of drones are a mix of professionals and regulatory provisions and is approved by the CEO. The audit prohobbyists. Many are currently unfamiliar with airspace structure or gramme incorporates the requirements of the Norwegian Aviation how they should behave in relation to air traffic control. The system Act, EU/2008/2016, the Norwegian Work Environment Act, the that has now been acquired is tailor-made for managing drones and Norwegian Security Act, and the regulations associated with these. drone users. The system is scheduled to be rolled out to the tower This is in addition to relevant ISO standards, as well as regulations units of Avinor Air Navigation Services during 2020. and standards within the external environment. Internal audits, audits of operators at Avinor’s airports, and audits of suppliers are Avinor observes and records illegal drone activity and reports all also carried out. unauthorised incidents involving drones at airports. We participate COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 33 Any discoveries made during internal and external audits are and Norway’s role as host country for allied forces. In the autumn recorded as non-compliance in Avinor’s non-compliance manof 2019, Avinor participated in the NATO Trident Jupiter exercise agement system and are followed up by the party defined as the and the national Polaris Gram exercise. We were in liaison with risk owner, contractor, or appointed contact person. Serious the Norwegian Joint Headquarters throughout the exercise. The non-compliance (level 1), recurrent non-compliance, and trends operational crisis team at the head office was involved in the first from completed audits are reported directly to the CEO through the part of the exercise and managed dialogue with the liaisons of the Central Safety Review Board (C-SRB). Norwegian Joint Headquarters. The 2019 audit programme did not reveal serious non-compliance (level 1) in respect of laws, regulations, or Avinor’s governing HUMAN TRAFFICKING documents that reduces the level of or poses a risk to safety. Avinor has no proprietary systems for reporting human trafficking. Such incidents are recorded in a crime case management system SECURITY and are processed by the relevant authorities, such as the police and customs. These are in place at Avinor’s largest airports, and Threats to aviation have changed somewhat from previous years, the airports are reporting good co-operation. Avinor encourages all and there is now greater awareness of inside threats and threats employees to report situations which are unclear and in which they to critical infrastructure. The organisation has conducted internal suspect that human trafficking is taking place. training on what inside threats are. The foundation course for access cards has also changed, and there is now an increased focus on inside threats and safety analyses of critical infrastructure have PROJECTS, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT been accomplished. Avinor has produced a strategy for innovation in future-oriented In 2019, Avinor updated the security risk analysis for all our and sustainable aviation in collaboration with the business airports. The analysis shows that Avinor must continuing working and industry sector and national and international research on the physical security of terminals as there is still a threat from environments. easily accessible objects that can be used as weapons and vehicles. Work on the new management system for preventative security The Group has focused on five areas where innovation would help (the Norwegian Security Act) has also been completed and impleto create value: mented in Avinor’s other management systems. This has resulted in good integration with the process areas Emergency Preparedness · environment, climate, and sustainability and Crisis Management, IT, and Procurement. · winter operations · holistic airport operations · hospitality COMMUNITY SECURITY AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS · digital work tools Avinor has bolstered its central operational crisis team by way of Each area consists of initiatives big and small that will contribute skills development and increased training in line with the team’s to knowledge, development, and concrete solutions. One example key function. Furthermore, the crisis team has involved all airports of ongoing innovation projects is Elnett21 – a project funded by in exercises to increase understanding and knowledge of Avinor’s ENOVA in which Avinor is working with Lyse, Forus Næringspark, handling of incidents. The crisis organisation has participated in the Port of Stavanger, and Smartly. Another example is the Smarter national exercises. transport in Bodø project in which the group is working with Nordland county council, the municipality of Bodø, and Telenor. The decision has been made to establish H capacity (the ability to Furthermore, Avinor is participating in several research and develcommunicate via encrypted network at level SECRET at the head opment projects relating to the development of sustainable biofuels office). This will enable Avinor to have and maintain an accurate for aviation, in collaboration with such institutions as SINTEF, BI and timely understanding of incidents and thus contribute to good Norwegian Business School, and the Norwegian University of Life national emergency preparedness. Sciences. Avinor also participates in Klima 2050, a research centre focusing on extreme weather and gradual climate change, as well as Over the past year, Avinor’s emergency preparedness documenthe climatic adaptation of buildings and infrastructure. tation was revised and adapted to EASA regulations and national threat assessments in order to safeguard the Group’s role in the Avinor has a focus on employee-driven innovation and arenas for transport sector, general defence, and community emergency collaboration across different disciplines in order to identify good preparedness. ideas and solutions. Avinor also depends on co-operation with external stakeholders in order to develop insights, knowledge, and General defence and Trident Jupiter innovative solutions. The Group has established good relations with Avinor continues to play an active role in general defence through national and international stakeholders from universities and colits ongoing co-operation with, among others, the Norwegian Joint leges, research institutes, and business and industry. The Group will Headquarters, the defence staff, the Royal Norwegian Air Force, the also strengthen its efforts by involving customers and stakeholders Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection, and other key civilian in its innovation work. stakeholders. The CEO has made an active contribution to the central general defence forum and Avinor has contributed in several academic contexts relating to, among other things, evaluations, exercise planning, the revision of emergency preparedness plans, 34 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 35 Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviationr Avinor has concrete and long-term goals to address the four largest environmental challenges of operating airports: climate, energy, noise, and emissions into water and ground. Effective and systematic environmental management is needed to Emissions from Avinor’s operations depend heavily on the weather manage these challenges. Centralised environmental management in the winter, which governs the need for snow ploughing, heating, and airport operations are certified in accordance with the ISO and the use of de-icing chemicals. The use of runway de-icing chem14001:2015 standard. In 2019, the certification company RISE icals is included in Avinor’s climate accounts because the chemicals Research Institutes of Sweden conducted a certification audit in are made from fossil carbon sources and therefore greenhouse gas which Avinor was re-certified for another three-year period. emissions are calculated based on their degradation. An important measure in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Avinor’s own operations is the introduction of advanced biodiesel, since almost half of Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions come from By 2022, Avinor must halve its total controllable greenhouse its fleet of vehicles. Advanced biodiesel is used in vehicles that gas emissions as compared to 2012 and help to reduce cannot be easily electrified, such as snow blowers and sweepers. emissions from ground transport and air traffic. The biodiesel used by Avinor does not contain palm oil or palm oil derivatives and conforms to EU sustainability criteria. A new The biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions at airports is aircraft framework agreement for the supply of advanced biodiesel was landing and taking off, followed by ground transport (greenhouse gas negotiated in 2019. emissions generated by passengers getting to and from the airport) and greenhouse gas emissions related to the running of the airports. I line with the normal procedure Avinor does not include emissions from biodiesel or bio heating-oil. In 2019 Avinor stepped up the Greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations phasing in of advanced biodiesel. The mixing ratio of biodiesel for Avinor prepares climate accounts in accordance with The Oslo Airport’s entire fleet of machinery rose sharply from 20 per Greenhouse Gas Protocol and works on an ongoing basis to cent in 2018 to 81 per cent in 2019. This equates to around one milreduce greenhouse gas emissions from its own operations. Avinor lion litres of advanced biodiesel in 2019. Furthermore, our partners purchases annual greenhouse gas emissions quotas to offset any at the airport have also refuelled with biodiesel. The mixing ratio of remaining greenhouse gas emissions. For 2019, we invested in a biodiesel at Trondheim Airport and Bergen also increased during project in Malawi: Improved Cookstoves Program for Malawi and cross-border regions of Mozambique. AVINOR'S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS RELATED TO AIRPORT In 2019, Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse gas emissions from OPERATIONS FOR EACH EMISSIONS SOURCE airport operations totalled approximately 13,530 tons of CO2 equivTonnes of CO2 equivalents alents. This indicates a reduction of approximately 14 per cents in 2019, as compared to the level in 2012. Vehicles Business travel Avinor’s biggest source of emissions is the consumption of fuel for Svalbard (electricity its own vehicles, followed by energy consumption and business and district heating) travel. Svalbard Airport in particular stands out in Avinor’s climate Runway de-icing accounts as the airport’s heating and electricity are both provided Thermal energy by a coal-fired power plant. Other sources of Avinor’s own conDistrict heating trollable emissions include the discharge of chemicals for runway de-icing and for use in firefighting exercises. Firefighting exercises Avinor’s climate goal is an absolute goal that does not take into 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 account size increases in the ploughed areas of our airports. 36 AVINOR AS the year to 61 and 38 per cent respectively. Furthermore, biodiesel chemicals in recent years. In the years to come, it will be important was used at Ålesund, Molde, and Kristiansand airports during 2019. to consider opportunities for obtaining runway de-icing chemicals Overall, Avinor increased its biodiesel mixing ratio in 2019 in line produced from fossil-free carbon sources. Although this has previwith its target. If Avinor is to achieve its target of halving greenously been a product that has not been possible to obtain, in 2019 house gas emissions by 2022, a further increase in the mixing ratio a producer demonstrated how this product can be made. However, of advanced biodiesel is needed in the coming years. the new product must meet all Avinor’s other requirements for runway chemicals and must therefore undergo thorough testing. When procuring vehicles in Avinor, an assessment must always be Avinor wants to help test this new product. made as to whether a vehicle with an internal combustion engine (ICE) can be replaced with an electric vehicle. A project at Oslo Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) is an industry organisation Airport saw the replacement of eight airside ICE buses with eight that airport operators can be accredited by. ACA is managed by electric ones. The decision was made in June 2019 and the buses ACI, of which Avinor is a member. Airports participating in the are scheduled to be delivered to the airport in the second quarter scheme must set binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emisof 2020. The project is funded by Enova and involves the purchase sions, prepare detailed climate accounts, and adopt action plans. of eight 18-metre buses from VDL and the associated charging In 2019, around 290 airports were part of the scheme. This means infrastructure (Heliox). The buses will carry passengers between that around 43 per cent of global passenger traffic passes through the terminal and aircraft parked at remote stands. It is expected ACA-accredited airports. Within Avinor, Oslo Airport, Trondheim that the transition from ICE buses to electric buses will save Oslo Airport, and Kristiansand Airport have been accredited in the Airport around 170,000 litres of fuel per year. The agreement for scheme since its inception in 2009. Bergen Airport and Stavanger electric airside buses, including infrastructure, is a framework Airport have participated since 2014. Our four largest airports are agreement. Other Avinor airports with airside bus services may accredited at ACA’s highest level – Neutrality. place suborders based on the agreement at a later date. Ground transport In 2019, Avinor purchased 21 new administrative vehicles, both In order to boost the range of services to passengers, reduce greenlarge and small, of which 13 were electric and 4 were hybrids. Four house gas emissions, and improve local air quality, Avinor wants to ICE vehicles had to be purchased due to the lack of available suitabe a driving force behind enabling as many journeys as possible to ble electric vehicles. Enova’s funding of the purchase of electric vans and from the airports to be made by public transport. The challenges has helped to increase the proportion of electric vehicles within relating to ground transport have to do with both the transport Avinor. However, there needs to be a wider range of electric vans network and the modes of transport. Settlement patterns in the airand minibuses (up to 8+1 passengers) if Avinor is to further step up ports’ catchment areas also mean that it is not possible to offer a full the phasing in of electric vehicles. range of public transport to everyone. Nevertheless, a generally high proportion of journeys made to and from Avinor’s largest airports To reduce Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions it is also necessary are made by public transport. For example, Oslo Airport has the to transition to renewable energy where possible and use bio highest such proportion in Europe. The proportion of such journeys heating oil at individual airports. Oslo Airport’s power plant has a has increased in recent years, and the goal is further growth. high capacity and falls within the greenhouse gas emissions quota regulations. Consequently, Oslo Airport has permission from the The increase in the proportion of public transport in ground transNorwegian Environment Agency for emissions subject to quotas port is affected by factors such as the passenger composition of air and compensates for its CO2 emissions in the EU’s quota system traffic. The most important distinction is between those who live in each year. Nevertheless, the use of the oil boilers is a last resort the airport’s catchment area and who have access to their own car, and they are used only during periods when Statkraft heating and and inbound passengers who do not have access to their own car. the electrode boiler are unable to supply sufficient energy. The oil Consequently, when the number of inbound passengers increases, boilers were rebuilt in 2019 and adapted to use biofuel oil as of 1 the proportion of journeys made by public transport increases as January 2020. Other measures that are essential for reducing energy a result. The proportion of cars increases if locally generated traffic consumption at Avinor’s airports are discussed in the section on increases more quickly. energy. For Oslo Airport, the high proportion of public transport has a Efforts to increase the number of charging points in Avinor’s parkpositive impact on domestic traffic. A greater proportion of intering facilities were concluded in 2019. Avinor now has 1,270 charging national traffic is outbound, hence the higher proportion of car use. points across its airport network and is now the world’s largest Since 2013, the increased proportion of foreigners in international airport operator in terms of electric vehicle charging. Oslo Airport traffic has resulted in an increase in the use of public transport, alone has more than 700 charging points for electric cars. which is the preferred means of transport for this passenger group. Climate change has resulted in the increased use of runway de-icing One group that is particularly challenging is those who are driven to Oslo Airport’s airside buses will appear as shown in the picture above. The buses are yellow due to airside visibility requirements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 37 or picked up at the airport by a private car. Avinor is working to propositive development in the use of public transport as a means vide incentives to get these people to use public transport. A vehicle of ground transport since 2009. Depending on how the situation registration recognition solution was introduced at all airports in develops, Avinor will set its sights higher heading towards 2030. The 2018. Vehicles that stay more than the allotted free time will have to target for Oslo Airport has already been set at 75 per cent by 2030. pay a fee. This may help to encourage car users to switch to public transport when being picked up or dropped off at our airports. PROPORTION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT Most measures for increasing the use of public transport fall outside NORWAY’S FOUR LARGEST AIRPORTS of Avinor’s areas of responsibility and require co-operation with several other stakeholders. Avinor’s most important contribution SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT is to provide infrastructure at its airports and useful information AIRPORT 2009 2018 2019 TARGET 2020 TAXI 2019 about services to passengers. Oslo Airport improved its public transport information considerably in 2019 with the opening of a Oslo 64 71 72 70 4 new information centre. The information centre features informaStavanger 14 22 21 30 24 tion boards and ticket vending machines and assists passengers Bergen 27 46 53 50 12 with the purchase of tickets and choice of transport. Trondheim 42 45 48 50 13 At the Group level, active efforts are underway with Norway’s Source: Air passenger surveys (RVU) largest airport bus operators, which have stations at Norway’s four largest airports. The aim of this co-operation is to identify strategies for increasing market share for bus companies at the expense of Greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic private cars. In its co-operation with airport bus operators, Avinor Since 2007, Avinor has co-operated with airlines and the Federation has developed specific measures to increase market share for of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO Luftfart) to facilitate bus operators. These efforts will continue in the years to come. a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic. Three Avinor would like to use this knowledge to facilitate the increased reports 1) have been published outlining emissions-reducing investment in public transport at smaller airports. measures and comparing the effect of these with expected traffic development. According to projections, greenhouse gas emissions At Bergen Airport, Flesland, we moved one step closer to a from domestic aviation – taking into account expected energy zero-emission taxi industry in 2018 when an agreement was efficiencies – will be roughly the same in 2030 as in 2016, despite reached between the county council, Avinor, and the energy and significant traffic growth. Emissions for international aviation may infrastructure company BKK. In December 2019, a charging station increase as a result of the significant increase in traffic if sustainable with six fast chargers and twelve AC chargers was completed in biofuels, and subsequently electric and hybrid-electric aircraft, are a taxi rank in Bergen. Avinor’s four largest airports have seen a not introduced. 1) “Sustainable and socially beneficial aviation” Available at avinor.no. 38 AVINOR AS weight, and more seats mean that the Airbus A320 NEO aircraft, GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS FROM NORWEGIAN AVIATION for example, which SAS and Norwegian are now phasing in, have 1990-2018 around 15 per cent lower emissions per seat-kilometre than the 1 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents aircraft they replace. Emissions per passenger kilometre have more 3 500 than halved in the last 20 years. 3 000 2 500 Airspace efficiency improvements Airspace efficiency improvements coupled with the optimisation 2 000 of landings and take-offs are important measures through which 1 500 Avinor can exercise considerable influence. 1 000 500 Free Route Airspace was implemented in 2016, and improved naviga0 tion technology facilitates more accurate and flexible approach and 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2018 departure procedures. The advantage of these approach procedures Domestic emissions International emissions Total emissions is that flights can pass around densely populated areas close to the airport, reducing noise for the airport’s neighbours. In addition, aircraft can fly shorter routes, thus reducing their fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, Oslo Airport expanded the The most important emissions-reducing measures for aviation use of such procedures, enabling them to be used in all weather are related to fleet renewal, airspace efficiency improvements, conditions. Trondheim and Bergen will implement the same in 2020, sustainable biofuel, and the introduction of electric and hybrid-elecwith Stavanger expected to announce the procedures in 2021. tric aircraft. Jet biofuel According to Statistics Norway, greenhouse gas emissions from Biofuel was certified for use in civil aviation in 2009. Since then, sevall domestic civil aviation in 2018 (most recent official figures) eral thousand scheduled civilian flights have been carried out using corresponded to 2,3 per cent of total domestic emissions (1,2 million blended biofuels, and the development of various technologies for tonnes out of a total of 52 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents). It is the production of biofuels has picked up pace. A major advantage these emissions which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol and which of biofuels is that they can be blended directly into fossil-based are reported in Statistics Norway’s statistics on greenhouse gas emisaviation fuel and do not require adaptations to either aircraft sions from Norwegian territory. This principle is used in all countries. engines or distribution systems. According to both the industry and the International Civil Aviation Organization, the introduction Greenhouse gas emissions from international traffic (i.e. from of biofuels for aviation is considered a very important measure in Norwegian airports to the first overseas destination) equated to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. 1,65 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 2018. These emissions are reported annually by the Norwegian Environment Agency to The first flights using blended jet biofuel in Norway were conducted the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by SAS and Norwegian in November 2014. In January 2016, Oslo (UNFCCC).2) Airport – in collaboration with AirBP, Neste, SkyNRG, Lufthansa Group, KLM, and SAS – became the first international airport in the Total greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel for civil purposes world to mix biofuel in the regular fuel supply system and to offer sold at Norwegian airports in 2018 (most recent official figures) biofuel to all airlines refuelling there. equate to just over 5,5 per cent of Norway’s total emissions, in the order of 2,85 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. According to From 2020, it is a requirement that 0.5 per cent of all aviation Statistics Norway there was an increase in the emissions from fuel sold in Norway must be biofuel (with the exception of the domestic traffic in 2018, as compared to 2017, while emissions from Norwegian Armed Forces). Norway is the first country in the world international traffic was slightly down. All together there was an to introduce such a requirement. The biofuel must be advanced, increase of 1,8 per cent as compared to 2017. i.e. made from waste and residues. The Norwegian parliament has adopted a target that 30 per cent of aviation fuel sold in Norway in According to IATA 3), total CO2 emissions from global aviation 2030 must be advanced biofuel. amounted to 905 million tonnes, or about 2.5 per cent of total global CO2 emissions (37 billion tonnes) in 2018. Avinor is working with environmental organisations, industry stakeholders, and research institutes to produce jet biofuel for aviation in In addition, the fact that some of the emissions occur at high altitudes Norway. In addition, Avinor has set aside up to NOK 100 million for increases their climatic impact. CICERO estimates an additional faca ten-year period (2013-2022) for measures and projects contributtor of between 0.8 and 2.5, with a model average of 1.8. Only a limited ing to the introduction of jet biofuel in Norwegian aviation. amount of domestic traffic in Norway occurs at these altitudes.4) Together with airlines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation New energy-efficient aircraft Industries (NHO Luftfart), Avinor has explored the potential for The airlines continue their efforts to become more energy efficient, establishing the large-scale production of biofuels for aviation using with the fleets of SAS and Norwegian undergoing constant renewal. biomass from the Norwegian forestry industry. The conclusion is More energy-efficient engines, improved aerodynamics, lower that waste products and side-streams from forestry could provide 2) Note that Statistics Norway has adopted a new model for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from aviation, and that the figures stated differ somewhat from previous years. 3) Source: IATA ( https://www.iata.org/en/iata-repository/publications/economic-reports/airline-industry-economic-performance---december-2019---report/) 4) Lund, Marianne T, Borgar Aamaas, Terje Berntsen and Jan S. Fuglestvedt (2016): “Luftfart og klima – En oppdatert oversikt over status for forskning på klimaeffekter av utslipp fra fly” [Aviation and the Climate: an updated overview of the status of research into the climate effects of aircraft emissions], CICERO Report 2016:5. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 39 enough biomass for up to 30 per cent of the fuel requirements of project in Stavanger. Together with the Civil Aviation Authority, Norwegian aviation. Avinor has been tasked by the government to develop a programme for the introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation. In 2019, Avinor signed an agreement worth NOK 8 million for the advance purchase of fuel from the Norwegian company Quantafuel. Avinor’s investment in the electrification of aviation has attracted The agreement with Avinor and funding from Enova will enable considerable attention nationally and internationally, and several Quantafuel to establish biofuel production using biomass from aircraft manufacturers are looking to Norway as a viable first Norwegian forestry. The company will start with a pilot project. market for electrified passenger aircraft, which are expected to be small and have a limited range. The large-scale Norwegian production of biofuel for aviation and heavy road transport may be crucial in achieving Norwegian cliCO2 duty and emissions trading mate targets, but this depends on predictable long-term conditions Norway is one of the few countries in the world to impose a CO2 that do not reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation. duty on domestic aviation. In 2019, this amounted to NOK 1.30 per litre of jet fuel, or around NOK 510 per tonne of CO2. In accordance Electrification of aviation with international agreements, a CO2 duty cannot be imposed on One of the likely measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions international traffic. will be the electrification of every aspect of aviation, including the operation of infrastructure such as buildings and facilities, motorSince 2012, civil aviation has been part of the EU’s emission trading ised transportation at airports, and air traffic itself. Norway is in a system, in line with the energy and industry sectors. Around 75 unique position to utilise electrified aircraft, thanks to its established per cent of flights within and from Norway are covered by the short-leg market using small aircraft, considerable experience, EU’s emissions trading system. The EU’s goal is that emissions great interest in transport electrification, and almost 100 per cent in sectors subject to quotas be 43 per cent lower in 2030 than in renewable electricity. Based on the information Avinor has obtained 2005. Quota prices have fluctuated considerably in recent years. from aircraft manufacturers, a realistic expectation is that the first Prices were consistently high in 2019, reaching a peak of almost electric or hybrid-electric aircraft could enter testing and developEUR 29 per tonne in July. The EU is expected to reduce the scope of ment phase in domestic passenger service in Norway by around available allowances in the lead-up to 2030 to ensure that targets 2025. Our vision is to electrify domestic air traffic in Norway by 2040. are achieved. This will increase quota prices and, in the longer term, Furthermore, we have a responsibility to facilitate this development, result in higher costs for Norwegian aviation. especially with regards to charging capacity at our airports. A passenger tax was introduced for all departures from Norwegian Avinor has started work on mapping current and future capacity airports on 1 June 2016. In 2019 this was NOK 200 for journeys with regards to charging electrified aircraft at the company’s airports outside Europe and NOK 75 for journeys within Europe. and is participating in, for example, the ENOVA-funded Elnett21 Emergency landing with electric aircraft In connection with a flight during the Arendal political festival in August 2019, Avinor’s electric aircraft had to make an emergency landing. CEO Dag Falk-Petersen himself was in the cockpit, and he felt an emergency landing was necessary as engine power had reduced to such an extent that it was not possible to reach the airfield. “I found a small place where we could land. Although the landing itself went very well, we ended up being a bit wet, as we landed in a lake. Despite the drama and it being something we could have done without, it was a successful ending to a challenging incident,” says Falk-Petersen. He states that this will not affect Avinor’s electric aircraft venture going forwards. The passenger on board, state secretary Aase Marthe J. Horrigmo of the Norwegian Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development, was happy and relieved that everything went as it did. “It’s rare to have been involved in the emergency landing of an aircraft, but fortunately everything went well and we can thank Dag for that. When he had to call the tower and say ‘Mayday, mayday’, I realised something was wrong. But he remained very calm, which in turn kept me calm,” she told TV2 the day after the emergency landing. 40 AVINOR AS The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL BREACH OF set a target of carbon-neutral growth in international aviation CONDITIONS FOR AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING from 2020. At the ICAO General Assembly in October 2016, it was agreed to introduce a quota system for greenhouse gas emissions Number of airports from international aviation, which, along with other measures, will 15 help to reach the target. The first six-year phase of the mechanism through to 2021 will be voluntary for participating states. So far, 12 78 states, including Norway, have voluntarily participated in this 9 phase. Air traffic between these states accounts for around 75 per cent of international air traffic. 6 3 CLIMATE ADAPTATION 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In Norway, it is expected that climate change will result in a De-icing aircraft De-icing runway warmer, more volatile, and wetter climate with wide regional and local variations. The inability to make adaptations to infrastructure may have major physical and economic consequences. All Avinor’s airports have their own discharge permits, pursuant to Since 2001, Avinor – together with the Norwegian Public Roads the Norwegian Pollution Control Act. These are based on assessAdministration, the Norwegian Coastal Administration, and the ments of natural tolerance levels for each airport up to the required Norwegian Railway Directorate – has assessed the impact of level of chemical use in order to operate the airport properly. The climate change on its own operations through its efforts relating discharge permits regulate things such as the amount of de-icing to the National Transport Plan. Avinor’s climate adaptation efforts chemicals and chemicals for firefighting exercises that can be also extend to co-operation with the ICAO, Airport Council used and how much may be discharged. If the consumption is so International (ACI), and the directorate group for climate adaptahigh that it could affect the environment, the permits may also tion under the auspices of the Norwegian Environment Agency. require additional investigation and the establishment of technical facilities. Its purpose is to safeguard water quality in the recipients Avinor has also conducted its own risk and vulnerability analyses, and the natural ecological, biological, and chemical conditions. which will be updated in 2020. The County Governor, who is the authority responsible for Avinor is involved in Klima2050, a centre for research-based contamination for all airports apart from Oslo, conducted physical innovation run by SINTEF, and is contributing with pilot projects inspections at nine airports in 2019, with particular emphasis on in, for example, the improved filtration of run-off from runways and tank facilities. Some minor non-compliance was recorded and the improved maintenance of existing buildings, including climate rectified. adaptation. Through the establishment of standards for buildings in Avinor, new building and infrastructure projects will have a greater In recent winters, Avinor’s use of de-icing chemicals for both emphasis on climate adaptation. aircraft and runways has generally increased. The primary reason WATER AND GROUND Avinor’s environmental target for water and ground for the USE OF CHEMICALS The risk of contaminating water and ground at airports period 2016 to 2020 is that no new ground contamination or is mainly linked to deicing, firefighting exercises and the worsening of water quality may occur at any of its airports. risk of leaking fuel, in addition to unexpected incidents. Airport operations involve the use of various chemicals that may result in discharge. Avinor’s corporate responsibility includes DISCHARGE PERMITS constantly seeking to reduce chemical use and discharge, sourcing Pursuant to the Norwegian Pollution Control Act, the most environmentally appropriate alternatives, and monitoring airports are not allowed to pollute. However, all of discharge and the impact of airport operations on the surrounding Avinor’s airports have their own discharge permits. environment. The discharge permits regulate the amount of de-icing chemicals and chemicals for firefighting exercises that can be used, and how much may be discharged. De-icing chemicals are used to ensure safe flight and landing conditions by preventing ice and snow from settling on aircraft and runways. The discharge of such chemicals may be detrimental if the MONITORING tolerance levels of the water and ground, and their natural decomAvinor’s corporate social responsibility includes conposition capacity, are exceeded. A contamination situation or stantly seeking to reduce chemical use and emissions, deterioration of water quality may then occur. The use of chemicals sourcing the most environmentally appropriate alternaalso has an impact on costs, which is why Avinor is working actively tives. To verify that we comply to this aim, monitoring to reduce the use and discharge of chemicals. emissions and the impact of airport operations on the surrounding environment is crucial. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 41 contaminants can result in the bonding of certain areas. Liability TOTAL USE OF DEICING CHEMICALS related to old and new contamination is also being addressed in the preparation of new lease contracts. Contaminated ground is also an Litres of 100% glycol issue when an airport closes, as the discharge permits dictate that 6 000 000 the airports must return the area to an environmentally satisfactory condition. 5 000 000 4 000 000 PFAS 3 000 000 Until 2012, Avinor used various types of perand polyfluoroalkyl 2 000 000 substances (PFAS) in fire-extinguishing foam in its firefighting 1 000 000 exercise areas. The most common compound, PFOS, was phased out in 2001. Since it has been documented that several PFAS 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 compounds are toxic and heavily biodegradable, Avinor has switched to fluorine-free fire-extinguishing foam. However, several years of using fluorinated fire-extinguishing foam has led to ground contamination in several of Avinor’s active and decommissioned for this is more challenging weather conditions. Increased traffic firefighting exercise areas, as well as in other areas used for and changed routes may also require an increased use of chemicals. exercises in the past. This contamination means that some types of PFAS are still leaking out into the natural environments around the In 2019, of Avinor’s 44 operational airports, conditions were airports. Avinor has been working on the problem for several years breached at eight airports for aircraft de-icing and at two airports (see the figure below) and is committed to taking responsibility for for runway de-icing. Whenever limits are exceeded, the pollution the contamination arising from airport operations. However, this authorities are informed of the situation. New discharge permits falls within the scope of what is justifiable from a socio-economic have already been applied for at some non-compliant airports. cost/benefit perspective. Oslo Airport is one of the airports that exceeded its discharge The framework conditions for the human intake of PFOS were permit for de-icing chemicals in 2019. The discharge permit for this amended in December 2018 following the assessments of the airport is recipient-based. There is no usage limit, provided that this European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). This has resulted in a does not result in an unacceptable impact on recipients around warning against the consumption of freshwater fish at Fagernes and the airport. In 2019, there were a total of nine breaches of discharge Harstad/Narvik Airport. permit requirements in relation to groundwater. All breaches are reported to the Norwegian Environment Agency, which has asked The Norwegian Environment Agency has warned that the norm Oslo Airport for a report on the cause of the breaches and measures value for PFOS in the soil will be lowered. Consequently, Avinor to prevent future breaches. Oslo Airport has started a project with has a stricter internal limit for when soil is to be classified as the aim of improving the understanding of the long-term effects contaminated than the limit dictated by national regulations. The of de-icing chemicals on the ground and groundwater, and the processing of earth contaminated with PFAS in connection with underlying processes. In addition, the project aims to evaluate and major and minor expansion projects poses a challenge for Avinor, optimise existing measures and explore opportunities for developas only a small number of waste processing sites can accept soil ing new measures. contaminated with PFAS. In 2019, Avinor received new discharge permits for the airports In 2018, the Norwegian Environment Agency required Avinor to in Harstad/Narvik, Rørvik, Trondheim, and Røros. New discharge carry out an overall assessment of PFAS contamination at 39 of its permits for Svalbard and Hammerfest airports have been applied for. airports (including risk assessments). The reports were submitted to the Norwegian Environment Agency on 30 August 2019. Avinor The contamination situation at the de-icing platforms at Tromsø expects to receive orders for the targeted mapping and clean-up of Airport remains challenging. Action plans have now been drawn up several sites contaminated with PFAS. Avinor has a good dialogue for the extension of discharge lines and the establishment of a new with the Norwegian Environment Agency on the issue. Clean-up de-icing platform. These have been sent to the County Governor measures are planned or underway at some airports. In January of Troms and Finnmark. Work on discharge line is scheduled for 2019, Avinor applied to the Norwegian Environment Agency for completion in 2020 and will significantly improve the contaminapermission to excavate a PFOS-contaminated area at a decommistion situation. sioned firefighting exercise area at Harstad/Narvik Airport. Avinor is awaiting permission from the Norwegian Environment Agency Considerable terrain work was conducted at several of Avinor’s and hopes to be able to commence its clean-up efforts in the late airports in 2019. There is considerable emphasis on potential autumn of 2020. ground contamination, and several trials have been conducted to determine the correct processing methods for excavated earth. The In 2011, Avinor carried out an assessment of the risk of PFAS handling of PFAS-contaminated earth is a particular cost-driver contamination of drinking water downstream of the firefighting in projects. The focus on ground contamination is also incorpoexercise areas at all airports. A water supply for private households rated into the development of a master plan for each airport, as was established at Oslo, Kirkenes, and Bergen airports during the 42 AVINOR AS Analysis of living organisms. Svalbard airport: Fish sampling at several Harstad/Narvik Surveying of private The Norwegian Food Safety Authority Action plan for firefighting airports: Harstad/Narvik, airport: Warning against drinking water wells around evaluating fish and shellfish at 5 airports. exercise area submitted to Kristiansand, Tromsø, consumption of trout the airport with elevated risk No restrictions the district governor Haugesund and Ålesund from Lavangsvannet of PFAS contamination Harstad/Narvik airport: Avinor switched Avinor applied to the Oslo airport: Permission from the Fagernes airport: from PFOS-free to Harstad/Narvik airport: Environmental authorities for Environmental authorities to water treatment plants fluorine-free foam at Kristiansand airport: instructions for water permission to excavate and excavate PFOS-contaminated to remove PFAS is currently all of its airports action plan submitted purification measures remove contaminated earth hot spots on fire drill area being established 2011 2012 2013 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 Surveying and risk Analysis of fish. Warnings Fagernes airport: Fagernes airport: Kirkenes Airport: PFAS evaluation of PFOS against consumption of fish Warning against Warning against detected in drinking contamination at all Avinor in the stream Eitråa/Reipa consumption of fish consumption of fish water wells new water airports 2011/2012 at Sogndal airport from Kalken from the airport. supply under design PFOS reports from New limit (TWI) for Submitted an overall assessment Sogndal airport: water 18 airports submitted ingestion of PFOS of PFAS pollution at 39 airports treatment plants to following an instruction from the remove PFAS is currently Environmental authorities of 2018 under design Timeline outlining key activities and events related to PFOS between 2011 and 2020. For detailed figures on these events, please see PFOS in focus at Avinor.no. period 2011 to 2014. New risk assessments (2019) have identified AIRCRAFT NOISE the need for further mapping. This is now underway at several airports. Avinor shall work actively to reduce the impact of noise from aircraft and helicopter traffic. The planning of a treatment plant for PFOS-contaminated water leaking from the decommissioned firefighting exercise area Aircraft noise in brief at Fagernes Airport was completed in 2019 and is now under Noise from aircraft affects the local areas around our airports. construction. Completion and commissioning is scheduled for the Active efforts are underway at Oslo Airport to make aircraft noise first half of 2020. predictable for our neighbours. Consequently, monthly traffic and noise level reports that are submitted to the public authorities are It has been calculated that at Oslo airport there was approximately also made available to our neighbours via Avinor’s websites. The 108 kilos of PFOS in the ground before excavating started. There Noise and Flightpath Monitoring Facility records flight movements are ongoing activities to stop the spread of PFOS to the water in the and conducts continuous noise readings in the airport’s local area. area. On 19 June 2019, Oslo Airport received permission from the The data is assessed against the current regulations for approaches Norwegian Environment Agency to excavate PFOS-contaminated and departures to identify any non-compliance. hot spots at the firefighting exercise area. The plan is to excavate and dispose of soil in areas where the average concentration of Oslo Airport’s neighbour pages online are designed to enable the PFOS exceeds 1000 µg/kg. A preparatory project and procurement airport’s neighbours to find traffic information, the airport’s aircraft process for the excavation are now underway at the airport, and noise zone map, or to contact the airport regarding noise from work is scheduled to commence in the spring of 2020. After the aircraft. Oslo Airport also has a dedicated phone number for aircraft excavation it is estimated that approximately 70 per cents of the noise enquiries. A summary of the enquiries and how traffic levels PFOS has be taken care of. are affecting noise at the airport is reported to the Civil Aviation Authority in a monthly report from the Noise and Flightpath At Kirkenes Airport, a replacement well has previously been estabMonitoring Facility. lished for residents whose drinking water was contaminated by PFOS following a leakage from the firefighting exercise area. Results Status of aircraft noise in 2019 from follow-up tests conducted in 2019 show that other perfluoriRevised noise regulations developed by the Civil Aviation Authority nated compounds are now being detected in drinking water at the came into force for Oslo Airport on 26 May 2016. The purpose of airport. Affected residents are being given clean drinking water, this regulation is to avoid unnecessary noise loads in areas around and a permanent solution for the supply of drinking water is being the airport, while maintaining safety levels, operational conditions, worked on. capacity, and other environmental conditions. The regulations permit the permanent use of curved approaches – as also referred Those wishing to get more information (in Norwegian) can find to in the section on greenhouse gas emissions – as the flightpaths reports, evaluations, and the orders of the Norwegian Environment are located away from densely populated areas. The regulations Agency on Avinor’s website under “PFOS i fokus”: https://avinor.no/ also specify an adjusted departure corridor for departures from the konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/pfos-i-fokus/pfos-i-fokus airport’s north-east corner. Compliance with the new departure corridor exceeds 95 per cent. This adjustment makes it possible to maintain departure capacity at the airport while avoiding flying COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 43 44 AVINOR AS New approach and departure flightpaths for helicopters have been implemented at Bergen Airport Flesland, which means that there are variations in which areas are flown over. Provided that the concept is implemented in its current form, residents will be able to enjoy periods without noise from helicopters close to their homes. The airport has gone to great lengths to respond to enquiries and compile statistics for helicopter traffic. A more restrictive attitude towards visual approaches from the south has been incorporated with demonstrable positive effects. This should result in less noise for residents living closest to the flightpath. The airport has had close dialogue with Equinor, which is the primary customer of offshore flights. The curved approach concept was implemented at Trondheim Airport Værnes in 2019. The concept will form the basis for the Curved approaches from the south and north respectively. implementation of procedures to reduce noise and emissions in 2020. In 2019, procedures to reduce noise from helicopters were tested at Stavanger Airport Sola along with preparations for over densely populated areas around the airport. The proportion of corresponding procedures at Bergen Airport Flesland. curved approaches was 6.1 per cent in 2019. The airports in Bergen, Trondheim, and Stavanger have flightpath At Oslo Airport, noise mapping and an operational concept have monitoring systems that are used to monitor whether the aircraft been carried out for a third runway, the western option. movements are in accordance with the procedures laid down for these airports. Noise-adaptation procedures are important In 2019, Oslo Airport received aircraft noise reports from 180 measures for reducing the impact that noise has on residents at the people. Residents of Ullensaker, Eidsvoll, and Nannestad account airports. Consequently, the system is used to document whether for the largest proportion of the reports. The increase compared these measures are being adhered to. Due to technical problems with 2018 is probably due to the closure of the eastern runway for in the interface between IT systems, the systems have been non-opresurfacing during the summer. erational for certain periods and so there are no results COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 45 for the whole of 2019. As a result, we have been unable to submit ENERGY USE 2012-2019 a report for Oslo Airport in accordance with the noise regulations for the first quarter of 2019. Although some of the problems have been solved for the other three airports, some software upgrades kWh/m2 are required to enable the systems to provide the necessary data for 400 aircraft movements. 300 In addition, Avinor has carried out noise mapping at Sandane, Båtsfjord, Sogndal, Hasvik, and Kirkenes airports on the basis of 200 the requirements of T-1442 “Guidelines for noise management in land-use planning”. 100 ENERGY 0 2012-ref. 2018 2019 Target 2020 By 2020, Avinor must reduce purchased energy by 25 per cent compared to the energy consumption of its buildings and facilities in 2012. Measures to reach this target include active energy management at airports, energy measures, the Stavanger Airport has taken the concept report for innovative phasing-out of fossil-based energy sources, and an increased energy and climate solutions in buildings one step further and share of self-produced energy. received funding under Enova’s programme for the large-scale demonstration of future energy systems. The Elnett21 project is well The energy that supplies Avinor’s building stock and infrastructure underway and several regional partners are working on how we will primarily derives from purchased electricity. Some airports are conmeet the increased need for electricity that arises in the transport nected to the district heating network. In addition, there are a few sector’s transition from relying on fossil fuels to being emission-free. airports that produce their own energy from seawater, geothermal The project will help to identify how to maximise energy efficiency, energy, and solar power, for example. Energy is primarily used for test new business models, optimise the use of the power grid, and heating, cooling, lighting, runway facilities, and other technical find solutions for power generation and charging. equipment. 2019 saw a focus on active energy monitoring and the use of the Avinor’s goal of reducing energy consumption will be achieved energy-monitoring system to track energy consumption and through active energy management, beneficial energy measures, identify beneficial measures. Energy initiatives are implemented by switching from electricity to water-borne heating, and an increased the airports themselves on an ongoing basis, including switching to share of self-produced renewable energy. Through its energy LED lighting, adjustments to heating and cooling plants, demand efficiency efforts, Avinor is also working towards SDG 7, “Clean control, some upgrades to heating and ventilation systems, and energy for everyone”. By reducing its own energy consumption and retrofitting insulation in buildings. Avinor has an extensive list of switching to self-generated renewable energy, Avinor can use this energy-saving measures, which are prioritised based on needs, energy in other areas in order to cut emissions further, such as by reduction potential, and payback time. Measures implemented switching from ICE to electric vehicles. By emphasising innovation in 2019 include new heat pump installations, switching to more in its choice of energy solutions, Avinor is helping to develop the energy-efficient ventilation systems, and major upgrades to outdoor energy market in a cleaner and more advanced direction. lighting at several airports. These efforts will continue in 2020. Avinor’s total energy consumption fell by 4 per cent between 2018 and 2019. The graph shows total energy consumption and specific WASTE energy consumption (kWh/m2) in 2012, 2018, and 2019. In relation to the energy target, which is based on specific energy consumpAvinor has an emphasis on the safe handling of hazardous waste tion, consumption has fallen by 24 per cent. and the optimal use of resources. We work with professional partners in order to achieve results. Waste management at the airports In 2019, several management measures were implemented at Oslo was reviewed in 2019 in order to improve waste sorting at source Airport, resulting in a total saving of 1.4 GWh/year. These measures and minimise waste transport. These efforts will continue in 2020. include blanking pedestals, motion sensors, the lowering of lighting at night, and better control of background heating systems at all A total of 9,975 tonnes of waste were produced at the airports, aircraft stands. Several investments were made, including a new ranging from workshop waste to food waste and waste from public heat exchanger that will help to recover an additional 3-4 GWh of areas. All the airports sort their waste at source. 50 per cent of heat energy from the water treatment plant in the municipality waste was sorted at source in 2019. Of the waste generated by the of Ullensaker. The exchanger is scheduled to be installed and fully airports’ ordinary operations in 2019, 40 per cent was recycled into operational by early 2020. A contract has also been signed for the new materials, 54 per cent was recycled into energy, and 6 per cent replacement of all flood lighting around the terminal with new was sent to landfill. LED lighting. The measure will improve safety, save electricity, and reduce power consumption. This replacement is scheduled to take In order to minimise food waste from catering outlets and kiosks place in the first half of 2020. at the airports, several of the outlets embarked on a trial project in 2019 with the app TooGoodToGo whereby food which would 46 AVINOR AS Miljøagenter (organised groups of children and adults) picking rubbish at the beaches near Kristiansand airport otherwise have been thrown out was sold in goody bags at a considother initiatives that pave the way for positive environmental erably reduced price. initiatives at and around our airports are also considered. Avinor has established an agreement with Xllnc Norway AS on After the charge was introduced in April 2019, we saw a 20 per cent secure deletion, disposal and sale of used ICT-materials fall in the number of plastic carrier bags in 2019 compared to 2018. Beach cleaning In addition, new shopping bags have been designed with a lower Several airports participate in the national environmental week plastic content and a proportion of recycled plastic. These bags will Strandryddeuka, where rubbish is cleared from beaches or other be phased in during 2020. areas at or near the airport. Partnership with Miljøagentene Plastic carrier bags In 2018, Miljøagentene initiated a project to develop a digital toolAn EU directive requires EU and EEA countries to implement measbox featuring drones, analytical tools, and training in collaboration ures to reduce the number of plastic carrier bags in circulation. with UAS Norway, Avinor, the Norwegian Coastal Administration, Norway has tackled this by requiring all commercial enterprises to and several other commercial stakeholders. In 2019, Avinor assisted charge for plastic carrier bags, as well as through offering memberin the training of young drone pilots at Svolvær Airport, Oslo ship in the Norwegian Retailers’ Environment Fund. Airport, and Kristiansand Airport, with a keen focus on safety and the environment. Avinor introduced a charge for plastic carrier bags in 2019. Some of the proceeds go to the Norwegian Retailers’ Environment Fund and the rest go to Avinor’s environmental fund and are earmarked BIODIVERSITY for environmental initiatives under the auspices of Avinor and its partners. The fund was created with the aim of reducing the climate Many of Avinor’s airports are in, or around, areas rich in biodiand environmental footprints of commercial activities at Avinor’s versity. These areas include conservation areas with rare species, airports. All our airports, as well as Avinor’s tenants and partners salmon rivers, and salmon fjords. Avinor also has large areas of who conduct commercial activities at Avinor’s airports, can apply meadow or meadow-like vegetation along its runways. Several for funding. Funding allocations occur twice a year. Although airports host habitats for endangered species. initiatives directly related to commercial activities are given priority, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 47 In order to maintain an overview of the natural values of Avinor’s properties and of areas that can be affected by airport operations, Avinor has conducted biodiversity surveys at all its airports. The results of the surveys are publicly available at Naturbase, and the knowledge from them is used in operations and projects. The management advice from the surveys is followed within the framework of safe and efficient airport operations. Avinor has implemented procedures to prevent the introduction or spread of alien species, with a specific focus on preventing dispersal The centralised management and operation of the airports through soil handling and operations. Several airports have large is certified in accordance with ISO14001. populations of harmful alien species. Every year, measures are implemented to limit their proliferation and eradicate these populations. Our emphasis is on avoiding their further spread into valuable natural areas. In 2019, Avinor participated in efforts pertaining to the National Strategy for Pollinating Insects and the sectors’ plans for following up on the strategy. There are opportunities to implement measures at airports in order to better accommodate wild pollinators. Oslo Airport, for instance, has areas that have been specially adapted to accommodate pollinating insects, especially the critically endangered bumblebee species Bombus distinguendus, which is found at the airport. Avinor is a participating member of Green Dot Norway, a ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN PROCUREMENT packaging recycling scheme. We demand that our Norwegian suppliers are members of their packaging recycling scheme. AND CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING PROJECTS Avinor procures products and services worth considerable amounts of money. In 2018, procurements valued at roughly NOK 6 billion were made, of which NOK 2 billion related primarily to major construction projects such as terminal expansions and runway Avinor has a centralised procurement unit in order to strengthen extensions, and NOK 4 billion to operational procurement. the professional procurement environment and establish clear interfaces with other professional areas, including the environment. Avinor has an ambitious environmental strategy with Group-wide The environment department is working closely with the central targets in areas relating to water, ground, climate, and noise. In procurement departments to assist with specific procurements order to succeed, it is essential that environmental considerations as well as to provide general advice on environmental conditions are integrated into day-to-day operations, procurement of products relating to procurement. and services, and planning and execution of building and construction projects. Procurement is an important tool for realising the Avinor sets strict environmental requirements for all its building strategy. and construction projects and is continually working to further develop its environmental requirements in line with developments Avinor could steer suppliers in several sectors in an eco-friendly in the industry. Avinor takes a life-cycle approach to the environdirection. Furthermore, environmental requirements in procurement in its projects through the early identification of environmenment are an important part of Avinor’s environmental policy. tal challenges and the potential environmental aims of the project. Standardised requirements for environmental management Avinor sets aims and requirements in areas such as reducing systems are integrated into the templates used for all Group progreenhouse gas emissions, waste management and minimisation, curements where relevant. In addition, the environment is weighted soil handling, the use of environmentally friendly products and heavily in procurement processes that are deemed to be of great chemicals, noise, and the conservation of the natural environment. importance to the external environment. 48 AVINOR AS Key figures climate and environment 2015-2019 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Avinor monitors tonnes CO2-equiv. 13 530 15 780 16 300 15 100 15 500 Avinor monitors/passenger g CO2-equiv./passenger 250 290 308 297 310 ENERGY 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Electric Power GWh 238 243 245 230 231 District heating GWh 24 26 25 22 12 Oil heating GWh 2.6 4.1 6.0 2.8 2.8 Reserve power GWh 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.9 1.7 Total GWh 265 274 276 256 248 VEHICLES – FUEL AND OTHER ENERGY 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Diesel litre 1 966 264 2 555 823 2 598 254 2 464 308 2 669 237 Petrol litre 60 052 65 261 59 460 60 805 65 619 Biodiesel litre 1 253 304 320 082 199 730 81 767 9 280 Electric vehicles km 106 933 80 368 58 595 72 472 85 134 Hydrogen vehicles km 7 848 10 914 21 833 16 773 WASTE 2019 2018 2) 2017 2) 2016 2) 2015 Sorted waste tonnes 5 028 5 301 7 542 4 687 7 999 Mixed waste tonnes 4 947 5 086 5 654 5 058 5 793 Total amount of waste tonnes 9 975 10 387 13 195 9 745 13 792 Sorting grade % 50 51 57 48 59 Hazardous waste tonnes 624 512 381 285 385 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 49 FIRE/ACCIDENT CHEMICALS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Jet fuelA1 / Paraffin litre 36 155 55 840 73 852 68 470 72 225 Diesel / Petrol litre 3 029 5 742 2 560 767 3 333 Propane kg 1 196 2 271 4 064 2 028 3 837 Fire-fighting foam litre 13 983 24 398 25 916 23 886 27 356 Training foam litre 285 187 1 006 1 762 1 610 Fire-fighting extinguishing powder kg 10 933 18 417 19 563 19 973 23 719 Technical alcohol litre 1 520 1 502 872 1 545 1 156 Kindling wood kg 1 925 3 400 3 892 6 744 5 397 DE-ICING CHEMICALS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Aircraft de-icing chemicals 100 % ethylene glycol litre 5 425 837 5 071 245 3 646 921 2 716 432 2 412 346 Runway de-icing chemicals Formate (liquid form) 3) litre 3 238 999 3 549 226 4 313 719 3 622 010 3 552 317 Formate (solid) 3) kg 600 910 663 503 742 529 477 530 443 850 Environmental impact measured as COD 4) tonnes O2 559 279 614 005 731 565 580 693 563 887 NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL STOPPAGES DUE TO AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING CONDITIONS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Aircraft de-icing number 8 5) 10 5) 11 5) 10 5) 3 Runway de-icing number 2 5) 3 5) 1 5) 1 5) 1 Some of the key figures from previous annual reports may be corrected due to quality assurance of recorded data, as well as the adjustment of annual emission factors. 1) For 2017, a change of data for greenhouse gas emissions has been made since CO2 emissions from electricity consumption have been deducted for all years and only stated as Gwh. 2) Waste data from 2016, 2017 and 2018 is not comparable with previous years as the sample is different. OSL only has numbers from OSL, not from all other companies operating at LH. 3) Indicated as amount of product, not concentrate. 4) COD = Chemical oxygen demand. This is the amount of oxygen required to break down the chemical that is used. 5) For OSL, the stoppage is due to aircraft and/or runway de-icing (recipient-based permission). 50 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer Avinor’s objective is to create valuable relationships. This is reflected in a value platform which provides clear requirements for employee performance, both internally in the workplace and in dealings with customers, business contacts, and others who are affected by our operations. Our 2019 employee survey showed that 70 per cent of our employunanimously supported by the Group’s Board of Directors. This goal ees are highly or very highly committed to their job. means that a significant proportion of the Group’s employees are affected by restructuring. The professional, predictable, and legally · Avinor has a good working environment and contractually compliant preparation and implementation of · Job satisfaction is high changes are important to Avinor. Managers, employee represent· Employees feel they have a high degree of support from their atives, and safety personnel receive the requisite training in the supervisors and colleagues restructuring and communication. Where staffing reductions are required, Avinor has previously used voluntary agreements and scheduled departures to avoid making redundancies. RESTRUCTURING In 2019, Avinor implemented a change to the Group’s pension Avinor’s strategic plan for 2018 to 2023 stresses the capability scheme by closing the defined-benefit pension through the of change through the use of new technology, innovation, and Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund as of 1 January 2019. cost-cutting. An Avinor-wide cost reduction programme was The purpose of this was to ensure better predictability for future initiated in 2019 in order to ensure future competitiveness. The goal expenses. Anyone employed in Avinor AS before 1 January 2019 is to reduce operating costs by at least NOK 400 million by the end could choose whether to transfer to a defined-contribution pension of 2020 as measured against the actual cost level in 2018. This was or remain in the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund. In Avinor COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 51 Air Navigation, this choice applied only to employees over the age of Avinor has its own summer internship programme, where students 53, with all others transferred to the defined-contribution pension. help to shed light on specific issues and solve business-critical At the end of 2019, 49 per cent of permanent employees in the tasks. The internship programme is of mutual benefit to students Avinor Group were members in a defined-contribution pension. and to Avinor. The corresponding figure for Avinor Air Navigation Services was 82 per cent of permanent employees, and for Avinor AS, including Avinor established 10 new internship places for vocational training Svalbard Lufthavn AS, it was 32 per cent of permanent employees. in 2019 (at Oslo, Stavanger, Trondheim, Evenes, Tromsø, and Lakselv) in addition to those begun in 2018. A total of 10 apprentices passed their apprenticeship exams at Avinor during the year. CO-OPERATION Avinor has a high level of trade union membership. Avinor AS INCLUSION AND EQUALITY and Avinor Air Navigation Services have collective agreements with their respective unions. The employee representatives are Avinor is working actively, purposefully, and systematically to key partners in achieving the Group’s targets. In 2019, Avinor had promote equal opportunities and diversity and to prevent discrimifrequent meetings with employee representatives, with co-opnation. Employees must enjoy equal opportunities in the Group, irreeration characterised by large numbers of cases and demanding spective of gender, age, disability, ethnicity, or cultural background. restructuring both in terms of ongoing case management and more extensive change processes. One goal is for the model of co-operaThe proportion of permanent employees who are women is 22.6 per tion between employee representatives and management to ensure cent. Over time the Group has focused on increasing the proportion good working conditions, stable operations, and cost-effectiveness of women employees. There is a low level of staff turnover in the throughout the Group. Group (4.6 per cent in 2019), which makes it a slow process to increase the proportion of women through new recruitment. In Three of the eight board members on Avinor’s Board of Directors addition, few women train in the professions that Avinor recruits for, represent Avinor’s employees. In addition, representatives are such as airport operations, firefighting, rescue, and air traffic control. elected by and from among employees to the Board of Directors of Avinor Air Navigation Services. The proportion of women in managerial positions is approximately equal to the proportion of women in the company, with 21.2 per cent in the Group as a whole. In recent years, there has been a positive CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT change in the proportion of women in the executive management from 25 per cent in 2016 to 41.7 per cent at the end of 2019. The The improvement of processes is a focus area for Avinor, the proportion of women on the Board of Directors is 50 per cent. objective being to create a shared culture for improvement throughout the Group. Avinor’s management system – SMART – provides In 2019, Avinor intensified its efforts to improve gender equality and frameworks for process management and process ownership, in diversity in the Group. Diversity broadens the Group’s perspectives which continuous improvement is an approach that ensures stable, and makes it better equipped to overcome future challenges. cost-effective, and good quality processes. SMART is undergoing Diversity is a broad concept which includes gender, ethnicity, age, further development with an emphasis on simplification and skills, disability, sexual preference, culture, and religion. Avinor wants efficient governance. the diversity of its employees to better reflect that of its customers. An action plan has been drawn up that specifies efforts for promotSKILLS DEVELOPMENT ing equality and diversity. Strengthening the proportion of women in managerial positions is considered a key factor in achieving the Employees with the right skills are essential to Avinor’s success. overall goal of a better gender balance in the Group. Consequently, In addition to efficiency improvements, developments in technola concrete target has been set with a view to increasing the proporogy and digitalisation result in new forms of learning and collaboration of women managers at the top four management levels to 40 tion. This necessitates a comprehensive boost in skills throughout per cent over the coming years. the Group. In 2019, Avinor began introducing several new systems, collaboration platforms, and various apps for skills development. In recruitment, there is an emphasis on appealing to candidates of all genders. Job postings should be designed so that they reach out Skills stipulated by the authorities constitute a significant portion to a diverse range of applicants. As part of internal and external of Avinor’s training activities, with constant updates and new cerprofiling, there are active efforts to make role models more visible, tifications. There are continuous efforts to cost-effectively develop, while Avinor’s recruitment policy contains specific guidelines to deliver, and maintain expertise. ensure the objective assessment of qualifications. Good management with a focus on employee development is a Avinor values its employees’ skills and development opportunities. cornerstone of Avinor’s work. Consequently, the Group emphasises Systematic performance interviews contribute to neutral salary and a holistic approach to leadership and employee development. The career development in the Group. A good gender balance is sought leadership development programme and Avinor’s management in selections for employee programmes and internships. platform build on the Group’s earlier investments in leadership development. The programme is continuing within the line organiA gender equality and diversity network has been established at sation in order to support the cost-reduction programme, while its Avinor. The network organises various events and provides advice content is aligned with the challenges faced by the units and input on how Avinor can further develop its gender equality as a result of change. and diversity efforts. 52 AVINOR AS The SHE index ( facilitated by EY) measures how well Norwegian · The systematic sharing of experience has been improved, such companies are working with gender balance. In its first participaas by way of more internal investigations into incidents involving tion in the autumn of 2019, Avinor ranked 17th out of 79 participatpersonal injury and the regular circulation of experience sheets ing companies. following HSE incidents. · Co-ordination agreements have been signed with all major Avinor is keen to ensure an inclusivity and strives to prevent stakeholders at the airports. exclusion from the labour market. This is especially relevant for · Methodology has been prepared and implemented for conemployees who no longer meet physical or medical requirements ducting risk assessments in the work environment during due to illness or other conditions. restructuring. · There have been systematic efforts to reduce absence due to Avinor has a party-composed Inclusive Labour Market committee illness. under the central Work Environment Committee. The role of the Inclusive Labour Market committee is to support the preventative The H1 value (number of injuries resulting in absence per million follow-up of absence due to illness in the Group. hours worked) and H2 value (number of injuries with and without absence per million hours worked) have been made central KPIs Avinor shall be a workplace that accommodates differences and in Avinor. The N value (number of near-accidents per million shall contribute to efforts to encourage more people to enter the hours worked) has also been recorded as of 2019. In 2019, the H1 labour market. Avinor offers relevant schemes to contribute to job value is 3.9 (compared with a target of < 2) and the H2 value is 8.2 training and has set a specific target of at least 12 places per year. In (compared with a target of < 10). During the period, there were 11 addition, a collaboration has been established with the HELT MED injuries that resulted in absence from Avinor AS, one of which was project, which works actively to include those with learning disabiliserious. Five internal investigations have been carried out following ties in the labour market. Avinor also worked with the Church City HSE incidents. Mission in 2019. SAFETY ORGANISATION BREACH OF WORKING HOURS PROVISIONS Avinor is divided into specific safety areas, with a safety co-ordinaIt is important that Avinor does not breach the working hours tor for each area. Larger airports have several safety co-ordinators. provisions of the Work Environment Act or collective agreements. Work environment committees have been established at central The Group systematically monitors how working hours are planned. and division level, as well as work environment committees and Training among managers and shift planners has been impleHSE committees locally at unit level. The committees consist of mented in vulnerable units. In the Group overall, there was a fall in employee and management representatives. The safety co-ordinator the number of breaches of working hours provisions in 2019. and occupational health service also participate. A chemicals committee, Inclusive Labour Market committee, and HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) EFFORTS AKAN (prevention of alcohol and drug problems in the workplace) committee have been established as sub-committees to the central Avinor’s HSE efforts are based on the adopted HSE strategy for the work environment committee. period 2018 to 2023. The overall objective of Avinor’s HSE efforts is to prevent HSE non-compliance, personal injuries, and work-related illness. Avinor’s long-term goal of zero harm should govern how we SYSTEMATIC EFFORTS TO REDUCE ABSENCE think and work, with a strong emphasis on continuous improveDUE TO ILLNESS ment. Sub-goals have been defined within five areas: effective strategic anchoring of HSE efforts; systematic efforts to reduce HSE Avinor has good procedures for absence due to illness. Efforts risk; anchoring in leadership for all operational HSE work; clearer relating to absence due to illness are a priority, with systematic HSE requirements and the systematic monitoring of all operators; efforts being made throughout the organisation to keep absence as and providing motivation to over-perform and for job satisfaction. low as possible. The elements of the systematic HSE efforts have been further develAvinor has a well-functioning and active Inclusive Labour oped throughout 2019 to make HSE a natural part of the company’s Market committee. The committee reviews and prepares existing activities. The most important activities have been: procedures for following up absence due to illness. These efforts have been targeted especially at short-term and medium-term · implementation of a nationwide HSE campaign with a primary absence, aiming at preventing long-term absence. The follow-up focus on the prevention of personal injuries; increasing the and prevention of absence due to illness are fixed points on the reporting of HSE incidents and near-accidents; and other activagendas of work environment committees and at staff meetings in ities that contribute to a good work environment. The primary the organisation. Developing the skills of managers in following up objective has been to create local involvement at the airports absence due to illness and compliance with the Inclusive Labour with regard to measures that improve the safety culture. Market agreement are priorities for Avinor. · Comprehensive HSE training for managers, safety representatives, Work Environment Committee members, and those Absence due to illness was 4.8 per cent in 2019. This is above the handling hazardous chemicals in line with the aims of the target of 4.5 per cent or lower for the Group. company’s HSE competence plan. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 53 AVINOR’S EMPLOYEES – KEY FIGURES 2019 2018 2017 Permanent employees as at 31 December 3 012 3 099 3 098 Temporary full-time equivalents 199.1 199.9 209 Average age of permanent employees 46.8 46.7 46.6 Total turnover 4.6 % 4.2 % 3.0 % Proportion of women 22.6 % 22.5 % 22.0 % Percentage of women in managerial positions 21.2 % 20.5 % 20.1 % Percentage of women in executive management 41.7 % 33.3 % 33.3 % Percentage of women on the Group’s Board of Directors 50.0 % 50.0 % 37.5 % Absence due to illness 4.8 % 4.7 % 4.5 % H1 value 3.9 3.8 1.4 H2 value 8.2 5.1 Avinor as an attractive company (scale 1-5) 3.9 4.0 4.0 AGE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE PERMANENT DISTRIBUTION DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES TURNOVER < 30 0.0 % 0.0 % 5.8 % 3.4 % 30 – 50 0.0 % 33.3 % 54.3 % 2.6 % 50 > 100.0 % 66.7 % 39.9 % 7.5 % 5) Including air traffic controllers 6) Including all reasons for termination of employment, excluding final agreements 7) The percentage of women among permanent and temporary employees 8) The number of injuries resulting in absence per million hours worked 9) The number of injuries with and without absence per million hours 54 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly Avinor manages significant assets on behalf of Norwegian society and is a major investor in society-critical and business-critical infrastructure. The Group is working systematically to combat all forms of corruption, discrimination, environmental crime, and harassment. Avinor ensures funding for a network of small and large airports Year-on-year operating revenues for airport operations increased throughout Norway. Airport operations are conducted within a sinby 0.5 per cent in 2019, driven by an increase in sales and rental gle financial unit, whereby the large financially profitable airports income. Total operating income from air navigation services fell by finance the rest of the airport network. At the same time, the Group 0.4 per cent due to reduced traffic volumes. has the ability and strength to implement important initiatives that ensure the sustainable development of Norwegian aviation. Avinor Operating expenses totalled NOK 8,151 million in 2019 (NOK sees this as an important part of its social obligation and a key 7,523 million), which is a year-on-year increase of 6.9 per cent. contributor to the achievement of sector-policy objectives. This increase has primarily been due to increased provisions for estimated clean-up costs related to environmental contaminants at Avinor’s firefighting exercise area. Excluding these provisions, SUSTAINABLE FINANCES expenses fell by 3.2 per cent. Avinor is self-funded through traffic revenues from airlines, Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2019 amounted to revenues from commercial tenants, and direct sales to passengers. NOK 19,544 million (NOK 20,234 million). Interest-bearing liabilities Commercial revenues account for roughly 54 per cent of operating are expected to increase to around NOK 22 billion in 2024. The revenues, while traffic revenues from airlines account for roughly 46 equity ratio as defined in Avinor’s Articles of Association will exceed per cent. A smaller component of the Group’s revenues stems from the minimum requirement of 40 per cent. Avinor’s credit rating is assignments for other organisations, such as the Norwegian Armed AA (Standard & Poor’s) and A1 (Moody’s). A more detailed report Forces. Air navigation services are funded through traffic revenues of the Group’s accounts and results is provided in the following from the airlines for en-route navigation services, as well as revenue chapter. from the operation of tower and approach services from Avinor’s airport operations. Avinor follows a tax strategy that is based on established principles, that is transparent and sustainable, and that is in accordance with Avinor is well positioned in terms of commercial revenues at its Avinor’s ethical principles. Avinor is committed to ensuring full airports and is dependent on their continued stability over time. compliance with all statutory obligations and full disclosure to the Duty-free shopping is an important contributor to the Group’s tax authorities. Avinor acts in accordance with the arm’s length financing of a high-quality nationwide aviation network. Avinor is principle, does not engage in artificial tax schemes, and actively prepared for the scheme to be a continued topic of political discusassesses all aspects of tax planning. Avinor’s operations fall entirely sion in the future. Consequently, Avinor attaches great importance within the sphere of Norwegian taxation. to managing the opportunity to conduct duty-free sales in a way that is balanced, responsible, and accepted. In addition, Avinor owns substantial amounts of land and has been able to realise ZERO-TOLERANCE OF ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION important values as a result of earlier real estate investments. In the coming years, developments in the airport’s neighbouring areas The Group has developed an anti-corruption programme focusing will contribute to the development of the airports’ attractiveness as on prevention and control activities. Specific measures have also hubs and to local development. been established based on a risk assessment of the relevant area. Governing documents have been developed relating to these efforts The Group’s operating income in 2019 was NOK 11,785 million and there is a constant focus on the continued development of the (NOK 11,724 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 702 million anti-corruption programme. (NOK 1,170 million). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 55 Avinor has implemented a corruption risk-monitoring element to exercise zero tolerance of all forms of corruption in Avinor and to within the Group’s system for strategic risk management. Avinor is put in place appropriate anti-corruption measures. a major construction developer and has initiated several expansion projects in recent years. The construction sector has been subject Employees, suppliers, and partners must be familiar with and of a number of incidents relating to corruption and price fixing comply with Avinor’s ethical guidelines in Norway. Consequently, Avinor’s risk exposure to corruption and misconduct has increased as a result of this investment The Board has established ethics guidelines that apply to the Board programme. Avinor is represented throughout the country and and all members of staff. The ethical guidelines prohibit corruption, has a broad sphere of influence as a major purchaser and as an bribery, and anticompetitive behaviour in violation of competition administrator of large commercial contracts. This is an additional rules. E-courses have been developed to address the various areas factor that further increases the risk of corruption and misconduct. of the policy. All employees and contracted consultants must sit the Various control and prevention activities have been established course once a year. which, together, are intended to reduce the Group’s risk of being involved in or exposed to corruption and misconduct. Various training activities were conducted in 2019. In addition to a mandatory review of ethical guidelines and associated e-learning Avinor has conducted a risk-and-vulnerability analysis for courses, the executive management and the Board of Directors corruption and misconduct in project management environments conducted joint dilemma training adapted to the risk that this level in development and IT. The risks identified are managed by way of the organisation may be exposed to in its day-to-day work. of relevant measures following discussions with the compliance officer and professionals. The following up of measures and their Avinor has a separate agreement on responsible business and impact are reported through the Group’s corporate governance associated principles. The requirements stipulate all Avinor’s system. principles relating to human rights, working standards, HSE, the external environment, and prohibited business practices. Avinor’s Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. As a contract partners must conclude an agreement regarding responmember, Avinor contributes to joint efforts relating to transparency, sible business practices and associated principles no later than integrity, and responsibility in society to prevent corruption and the time at which they enter into a contract with the Group. These fraud both nationally and internationally. In addition, we undertake contractual terms and conditions ensure that third parties with 56 AVINOR AS which Avinor concludes contracts have ethical guidelines and take deception, extortion, disloyalty, money laundering, and receipt of their corporate responsibility seriously. The requirements also apply gifts in a work capacity, as well as acts related to impartiality, abuse to any subcontractors in the execution of a contract. The provisions of position, and influential trading. of the agreements permit audits of each contracting party. A material breach of an agreement regarding responsible business In addition, the function defines the substance of Avinor’s practice entitles Avinor to terminate all applicable agreements responsibility to combat violations of labour market legislation, with the contracting party if critical conditions are not followed up stipulate requirements, propose relevant measures, monitor how satisfactorily. the business follows up on its legal responsibilities, and establish sanctions in the event of non-compliance. All employees are required to register their own external duties, second jobs, and other roles electronically. This registration will form the basis of assessing the composition of teams in charge AVINOR WILL WORK TO COMBAT of procurement on Avinor’s behalf, participation in exploratory ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR assignments, participation in decision-making assignments related to business interests, etc. The members of the Group’s Board of Avinor is subject to public procurement regulations. Group-wide Directors and management staff regularly report their duties outguidelines have been established to supplement the regulations to side of the Avinor Group. An external auditor conducts reviews of ensure competition in the conclusion of individual contracts. the formal relationships between the executive management, Board of Directors, and suppliers in the Avinor Group. Any relationships are documented and reviewed with the person in question. The AVINOR SHALL ENSURE THAT ALL PARTIES TO latter analysis primarily confirms the information obtained through AGREEMENTS HAVE ETHICS GUIDELINES AND TAKE THEIR the self-declarations. This annual survey is in addition to the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SERIOUSLY assessments that are to be made when questions arise about the individual’s impartiality. Suppliers who wish to compete for a contract with Avinor must undertake to comply with our principles for responsible supplier behaviour. The principles reflect Avinor’s ethical regulations. AVINOR SHALL HAVE EFFECTIVE PROCEDURES FOR We require, for example, that international human rights are THE MANAGEMENT OF REPREHENSIBLE ACTIONS OR respected and that our suppliers are not complicit in their violation. SITUATIONS IN ALL PARTS OF THE ORGANISATION Furthermore, the supplier must ensure that its workers’ salaries meet minimum wage requirements, that their working hours are in Avinor Notification Institute accordance with applicable national legislation, that their workers The Group has appointed a committee to manage notifications have the opportunity for adequate rest, and that employment of reprehensible conditions in all parts of the organisation. contracts are written in a language that the workers understand. Notifications can be submitted regarding inadequate safety procedures, bullying and harassment, careless administrative procedures, Avinor is subject to public procurement regulations. The regulations working conditions that contravene the Work Environment Act, or give us the opportunity, subject to certain conditions, to preclude corruption and other financial misconduct. The person submitting suppliers from competing for assignments for Avinor if the supplier the notification can choose to remain anonymous. The committee has been legally convicted of or fined for corruption, among other has established routines for the proper processing of notifications. things. The European Single Procurement Document (ESPD) Follow-ups take place at the relevant level in the organisation. is used in the qualification phase of procurement processes to Responses depend on the incident and its severity. In order to avoid document on an ongoing basis that the supplier meets all the similar incidents elsewhere in the organisation, it is important that qualification requirements of the competition. Whether the the lessons learnt in each incident benefit the business. The comsupplier requires further examination depends on, for example, mittee has also developed procedures and technical solutions that whether the industry in question is at risk of corruption and mismake it possible for external actors to notify Avinor of reprehensible conduct, whether the contract in question is reputation-sensitive conditions. These notifications must be handled according to the for the Group, whether the supplier or subcontractor engages in same procedures as notifications from employees of the Group. significant levels of production outside Europe, etc. Avinor complies with the Norwegian Personal Data Act regarding the processing of personal data received by way of its notification Avinor has concluded a co-operation agreement with the scheme. Norwegian Tax Administration regarding the intensification of efforts to combat violations of labour market legislation. The In 2019, the committee received just under 130 notifications. All purpose of the agreement is to establish ongoing collaboration that the notifications have been processed. There were no grounds to reinforces and develops the effect of the parties’ action to combat conclude that any of these were critical in nature. violations of labour market legislation. The agreement must ensure that all Avinor’s suppliers and subcontractors in building and Compliance function construction, as well as in cleaning, fulfil their statutory obligaAvinor’s compliance function works according to the mandate tions, including the Work Environment Act, regulations relating determined by the Group’s Board of Directors and reports directly to pay and working conditions in public-sector contracts, and tax to the Group’s executive management and Board. The function legislation. monitors the Group’s compliance with external and internal regulations relating to corruption, misconduct, and ethics regulations. Avinor has contracted audit access in all of its contract templates. The term “corruption” includes bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, All aspects of the contractual provisions may be followed up COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 57 through the life of the contract. The contracts permit us to penalise we have established a system for internal control pursuant to the the other party in the event of non-compliance with contractual regulations of the GDPR. Avinor’s internal and external privacy provisions. policies outline its processing of personal data and inform visitors to Avinor’s websites of the use of cookies. We have concluded data processing agreements with subcontractors that process personal AVINOR SHALL ENSURE THE RESPONSIBLE data on our behalf. We are in continuous dialogue with our airport PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA partners in terms of clarifying roles and responsibilities concerning data flows related to passenger processing and baggage handling. Avinor has appointed a data protection officer tasked with assisting people registered with the business and employees in matters In 2019, Avinor has completed a Group-wide project aimed at facilirelating to Avinor’s processing of personal data. In addition, the tating its compliance with the GDPR, which came into force in May data protection officer must notify the management of breaches 2018. These efforts are continuing within the day-to-day operations of the Norwegian Personal Data Act and be the company’s contact of the units of the line organisation. for enquiries from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority. Avinor maintains a processing list which describes the purposes Avinor did not receive any complaints concerning breaches of its of data processing. We consider the consequences to privacy when customers’ privacy in 2019. introducing new technical solutions to ensure built-in privacy, and 58 AVINOR AS Overview of GRI indicators This report has been prepared in line with GRI Standards/Core. Avinor’s annual accounts (company accounts and consolidated accounts) for 2019 have been audited by Ernst & Young AS. The auditor’s report can be found on pages 128 to 131. A detailed report on the reporting standard and the various indicators can be found on GRI’s website: www.globalreporting.org/standards About Avinor and Avinor’s work regarding corporate social responsibility STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-14 Foreword p. 8-9 ORGANIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-1 Name Avinor as 102-2 Product p. 6-7 102-3 Main offices Oslo 102-4 Presence Avinor has only operations in Norway 102-5 Ownership p. 6-7 102-6 Markets p. 7 102-7 Size p. 4 102-8 Employees p. 50-53 102-48 Collective agreements p. 51 102-9 Supply chain p. 54-57 102-10 Changes p. 15 102-11 Conditions https://avinor.no/konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/miljomal/ 102-12 Support for the CSR Initiative p. 18, 20, 35 102-13 Interest-org. Spekter: Transportation Sector Council National Programme of Supplier Development: Partner COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 59 PRIORITIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-45 Overview, Company p. 7 The report concerns activities that the Group manages in airport operations and flight safety, but not activity in other subsidiaries. 102-46 Define report-content p. 20-21 102-47 Prioritization p. 21 103-1 Delimitation All topics that have been considered important are relevant to all Avinor operations. DIALOGUE WITH PARTNERS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-40 List of partners p. 20-21 102-42 Selection-basis p. 20-21 102-43 Description of dialogue p. 20-21 102-44 Topics p. 20-21 ABOUT THE REPORT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-50 Applies to 2019 102-51 Previous report 2018 102-52 Interval Annual 102-53 Contact post@avinor.no 102-54 Type of GRI-report GRI Standards/Core 102-55 GRI indicator overview p. 58-63 102-56 Revision The annual report has been audited by ERNST & YOUNG AS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-18 Corporate governance and p. 10-13 company management ETHICAL GUIDELINES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-16 Ethics guidelines p. 54-57 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/konsernet/visjon-og-verdier 60 AVINOR AS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 15-19 (The Board of Director’s report) 103-2 p. 10-13 (Corporate governance and company 103-3 management) 201-1 Financial performance p. 4, 66-126 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 26-33 103-2 103-3 203-1 Infrastructure-investments p. 28-29 203-2 Indirect economic impact p. 26-28 ENERGY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 44-45 103-2 103-3 302-1 Energy consumption p. 44-45 302-4 Energy conservation p. 44-45 BIODIVERSITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 46-47 103-2 103-3 304-1 Property adjoining areas with high biodiversity value p. 46-47 304-2 Impact of biodiversity p. 46-47 304-3 Improvement – habitat p. 46-47 AIR EMISSIONS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 35-40 103-2 103-3 AO5 Air quality p. 35-40 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 35-40 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 35-40 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 35-40 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 61 EMISSIONS AND WASTE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 40-42 103-2 103-3 306-2 Waste p. 45-46 306-3 Accidental emissions p. 40-42 AO6 De-icing fluid p. 41-42 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION – ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 35-47 103-2 103-3 307-1 Fines/sanctions No fines or similar NOISE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 42 103-2 103-3 AO7 Noise p. 42-43 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/ENVIRONMENT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Monitoring of suppliers/environment p. 54-57 103-2 103-3 308-1 Screening suppliers p. 54-57 308-2 Monitoring existing suppliers p. 54-57 HSE IN AVINOR STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 52-53 103-2 103-3 403-1 HSE-organization p. 52-53 403-2 Sick leave/H-value p. 52-53 62 AVINOR AS INTERNAL COMPETENCE BUILDING STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 50-51 103-2 103-3 404-1 Who is offered training? p. 50-51 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN AVINOR STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 51-52 103-2 103-3 405-1 Equal opportunity on the Board, in management, among employees p. 51-52 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/WORKING CONDITIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 56-57 103-2 103-3 NOTIFICATION CHANNELS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-2 Policy/management system p. 56 NON-DISCRIMINATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 51-52 103-2 103-3 406-1 Discrimination-cases No cases LOCAL COMMUNITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 8-9, 26-30 103-2 103-3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 63 CORRUPTION PREVENTION MEASURES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 54-57 103-2 103-3 205-2 Anti-corruption training initiatives p. 55-57 205-3 Corruption cases No cases ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PREVENTION MEASURES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 56 103-2 103-3 206-1 Cases, violation of regulations No cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – FINANCES AND SOCIETY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 54-57 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases PRODUCT LIABILITY – SAFETY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 31-33 103-2 103-3 416-1 Product safety survey p. 31-33 416-2 Violation of regulations No cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – PRODUCT LIABILITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 31-33 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases 64 AVINOR AS Executive management as at 31 March 2020 DAG FALK-PETERSEN ANDERS KIRSEBOM STINE RAMSTAD WESTBY HELGE EIDSNES CEO Managing Director Airport Director Airport Director Avinor Flysikring AS Oslo airport Bergen airport, Flesland ANETTE SIGMUNDSTAD MARIT HELENE STIGEN PETTER JOHANNESSEN EGIL THOMPSON Airport Director Airport Director Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Stavanger airport, Sola Trondheim airport, Værnes for Strategy and Corporate Corporate Communication Governance/CFO and Commercial MARI HERMANSEN ØYVIND HASAAS THORGEIR LANDEVAAG Executive Vice President for Executive Vice President for Division Director for national, Organisation and Group support Operations and Infrastructure regional, and local airports COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 65 Board of Directors as at 31 March 2020 ANNE CARINE TANUM OLA HENRIK STRAND LINDA BERNANDER HERLOF NILSSEN Chair Vice Chair SILSETH Board member Board member ELI SKRØVSET HEIDI ANETTE SØRUM BJØRN TORE MIKKELSEN OLAV AADAL Board member Board member, Board member, Board member, employee representative employee representative employee representative 66 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 67 Financial statements and notes 68 AVINOR AS INCOME STATEMENT All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2019 NOTE 2019 2018 Operating income 4 392.0 4 296.3 Traffic income 3, 4 5 378.7 5 513.1 6 004.6 6 184.2 Other operating income 3, 4 6 406.5 6 211.1 10 396.6 10 480.5 Total operating income 11 785.2 11 724.2 Operating expenses 207.7 83.9 Raw materials and consumables used 3 138.7 262.0 2 181.7 2 202.9 Employee benefits expense 3, 5 3 708.6 3 665.8 4 368.2 4 055.7 Other operating expenses 3, 7 3 482.6 3 795.4 -66.1 665.9 Other expenses 3, 8 820.8 -199.8 6 691.5 7 008.4 Total operating expenses 8 150.7 7 523.4 3 705.1 3 472.1 EBITDA 3 634.5 4 200.8 1 944.4 2 013.6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 11, 12 2 171.6 2 103.4 1 760.7 1 458.5 Operating profit/(loss) 1 462.9 2 097.4 39.9 48.6 Finance income 9 39.9 32.8 635.8 650.3 Finance costs 9, 12 603.1 633.7 -595.9 -601.7 Net finance costs -563.2 -600.9 1 164.8 856.8 Profit before income tax 899.7 1 496.5 254.3 190.7 Income tax expense 10 197.5 326.8 910.5 666.1 Profit for the year 702.2 1 169.7 Attributable to: 910.5 666.1 Owners of the parent 702.2 1 169.7 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 69 STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2019 NOTE 2019 2018 910.5 666.1 Profit for the year 702.2 1 169.7 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -485.6 378.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 16 544.6 -666.3 111.7 -83.3 Tax effect 10 -119.8 152.9 -66.6 0.0 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -82.4 -440.5 295.2 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 424.8 -595.8 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 186.3 251.3 Cash flow hedges 14 251.3 211.9 -42.9 -55.3 Tax effect 10 -55.3 -48.7 143.4 196.0 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 196.0 163.2 -297.1 491.2 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 620.8 -432.6 613.4 1 157.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 323.0 737.1 Attributable to: 613.4 1 157.3 Owners of the parent 1 323.0 737.1 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 70 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 NOTE 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Non-current Assets Intangible assets 1 141.2 1 043.1 Deferred tax assets 10 1 423.4 1 497.4 30.9 77.5 Other intangible assets 11 233.7 103.4 0.0 0.0 Assets under construction, intangible 11 622.4 332.3 1 172.1 1 120.6 Total intangible assets 2 279.5 1 933.1 Property, plant and equipment 32 747.3 32 497.3 Property, plant and equipment 11 34 244.6 34 426.4 2 025.6 2 234.5 Assets under construction 11 2 642.4 2 496.1 0.0 553.1 Right-of-use assets 12 485.0 0.0 34 772.9 35 284.9 Total property, plant and equipment 37 372.0 36 922.5 Financial assets 1 161.6 1 163.0 Investments in subsidiaries 19 0.0 0.0 190.0 150.0 Loans to group companies 23 0.0 0.0 1 506.2 1 751.1 Derivative financial instruments 14 1 751.1 1 506.2 87.2 97.9 Other financial assets 14 99.0 88.3 2 945.0 3 162.0 Total financial assets 1 850.1 1 594.5 38 890.0 39 567.5 Total non-current assets 41 501.6 40 450.1 Current Assets 13.2 9.3 Inventories 24.4 27.6 1 356.6 1 425.7 Trade and other receivables 14 1 572.9 1 418.8 53.5 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 4.2 53.5 1 721.6 1 040.0 Cash and cash equivalents 14 1 059.1 1 739.8 3 144.9 2 475.0 Total current assets 2 660.6 3 239.7 42 034.9 42 042.5 Total assets 44 162.2 43 689.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 71 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 NOTE 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Share capital 20 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 Total restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Retained earnings 8 536.9 9 109.3 Other equity 15 9 878.9 9 140.8 8 536.9 9 109.3 Total retained earnings 9 878.9 9 140.8 13 937.0 14 509.4 Total equity 15 279.0 14 540.9 Provisions and liabilities Provisions 2 789.4 2 020.7 Pension liabilities 16 3 972.8 4 633.4 167.3 1 041.8 Other provisions 17 1 065.9 174.0 2 956.7 3 062.5 Total provisions 5 038.7 4 807.4 Non-current liabilities 1 638.6 1 194.2 State loan 14 1 194.2 1 638.6 18 570.6 17 667.1 Other non-current liabilities 14 17 667.1 18 570.6 0.0 497.9 Lease liabilities 12, 14 435.5 0.0 20 209.2 19 359.2 Total non-current liabilities 19 296.8 20 209.2 Current liabilities 0.0 600.0 Commercial papers 14 600.0 0.0 477.4 358.4 Trade payables 579.7 536.1 241.3 230.9 Tax payable 10 298.8 290.9 233.7 230.2 Public duties payable 343.3 361.6 0.0 2.3 Derivative financial instruments 14 2.3 6.2 1 531.5 1 341.5 First annual installment on long-term liabilities 14 1 341.5 1 531.5 0.0 64.3 Lease liabilities 12, 14 56.7 0.0 2 448.1 2 283.8 Other current liabilities 17, 18 1 325.4 1 406.0 4 932.0 5 111.4 Total current liabilities 4 547.7 4 132.3 28 097.9 27 533.1 Total liabilities 28 883.2 29 148.9 42 034.9 42 042.5 Total equity and liabilities 44 162.2 43 689.8 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. Oslo, 31 March 2020 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 72 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS SHARE OTHER OTHER TOTAL CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2018 5 400.1 -718.1 8 891.3 13 573.2 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 910.5 910.5 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -373.9 0.0 -373.9 Cash flow hedge 0.0 143.4 0.0 143.4 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -12.3 -54.3 -66.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -242.8 856.2 613.4 Transactions with owners: Demerger -6.5 0.0 6.4 0.0 Non-cash share capital contribution 6.5 0.0 -6.4 0.0 Dividends relating to 2017 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Balance at 31 December 2018 5 400.1 -960.9 9 497.8 13 937.0 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 666.1 666.1 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 295.2 0.0 295.2 Cash flow hedge 0.0 196.0 0.0 196.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 491.2 666.1 1 157.3 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2018 0.0 0.0 -584.9 -584.9 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -584.9 -584.9 Balance at 31 December 2019 5 400.1 -469.7 9 579.0 14 509.4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 73 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP SHARE OTHER OTHER TOTAL CAPITAL RESERVES EQUITY EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2018 5 400.1 -1 137.6 9 791.0 14 053.5 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 1 169.7 1 169.7 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -513.4 0.0 -513.4 Cash flow hedge 0.0 163.2 0.0 163.2 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -19.6 -62.8 -82.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -369.8 1 106.9 737.1 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2017 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Balance at 31 December 2018 5 400.1 -1 507.4 10 648.2 14 540.9 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 702.2 702.2 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 424.8 0.0 424.8 Cash flow hedge 0.0 196.0 0.0 196.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 620.8 702.2 1 323.0 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2018 0.0 0.0 -584.9 -584.9 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -584.9 -584.9 Balance at 31 December 2019 5 400.1 -886.6 10 765.5 15 279.0 For specification of other reserves, see note 15. The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 74 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2019 NOTE 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities 3 325.0 3 663.6 Cash generated from operations 1) 4 204.9 4 202.5 37.0 57.1 Interest received 58.1 37.4 -43.4 -241.3 Income tax paid -290.7 -115.6 3 318.6 3 479.4 Net cash generated from operating activities 3 972.3 4 124.3 Cash flow from investing activities -2 264.6 -1 993.3 Investments in property, plant and equipment (PPE) -2 470.7 -2 523.5 21.8 29.2 Proceeds from sale of PPE, including assets under construction 30.4 26.4 -70.0 40.0 Group loans 0.0 0.0 0.0 -16.7 Group repayment of lease liabilities 0.0 0.0 -9.4 -17.2 Group interests 0.0 0.0 0.9 -1.9 Net group contribution/dividend 0.0 0.0 134.6 -22.2 Change in other investments -21.9 153.8 -2 186.7 -1 982.1 Net cash used in investing activities -2 462.2 -2 343.3 Cash flow from financing activities -579.0 -1 563.4 Repayment of borrowings 14 -1 572.6 -1 174.7 0.0 600.0 Proceeds from short term borrowings (commercial papers) 14 600.0 0.0 -652.8 -624.6 Interest paid -627.3 -688.0 -0.6 -6.0 Other borrowing charges -6.0 -0.6 -249.7 -584.9 Dividends paid to owner -584.9 -249.7 -1 482.1 -2 178.9 Net cash generated/used in financing activities -2 190.8 -2 113.0 -350.2 -681.6 Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts -680.7 -332.0 2 071.8 1 721.6 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 14 1 739.8 2 071.8 1 721.6 1 040.0 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 1 059.1 1 739.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 75 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK 1) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2019 2019 2018 1 164.8 856.8 Profit before income tax 899.7 1 496.5 1 944.4 2 013.6 Depreciation 2 171.6 2 103.4 -8.6 -0.2 (Profit)/loss on disposals of non-current assets 0.0 -8.5 -49.4 55.7 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (unrealised) 45.4 -47.9 595.9 601.7 Net finance costs 563.2 600.9 49.5 -176.1 Change in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables -47.1 15.4 38.5 -390.3 Difference between pension cost and amount paid/received -115.9 -58.8 56.7 703.7 Change in other working capital items 2) 688.0 101.5 -466.8 -1.3 Change in group receivables and payables 0.0 0.0 3 325.0 3 663.6 Cash generated from operations 4 204.9 4 202.5 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: 13.2 29.0 Net book amount 30.4 17.9 8.6 0.2 Profit/(loss) on disposals of property, plant and equipment 0.0 8.5 21.8 29.2 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 30.4 26.4 2) Change in other working capital items in 2019 includes provisions for external environment of MNOK 871.2. The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 76 AVINOR AS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Segment information 4 Operating income and other income 5 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations 6 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees 7 Other operating expenses 8 Other expenses 9 Finance income and costs 10 Income tax expense and deferred income tax 11 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 12 Leases – right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 13 Financial risk factors 14 Financial assets and liabilities 15 Other reserves 16 Pension obligation 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 Other short-term liabilities 19 Subsidiaries 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results 21 Contingencies and uncertainties 22 Commitments 23 Related-party transactions 24 Events after the reporting period 25 New and future accounting standards COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 77 NOTE 1 General information Avinor AS and its subsidiaries (together 'the group') own, manage same areas together with other activities that add to the group's and develop aviation infrastructure and systems by facilitating safe main business, including commercial development. The Avinor and efficient aviation. The group also renders services within the group's headquarters are located in Oslo, Dronning Eufemias gate 6. NOTE 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of requires managment to exercise its judgement in the process of these consolidated financial statements are set out below and in applying the group's accounting policies. Areas involving a higher each note to the financial statement. These policies have been degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial stated. statements are disclosed in particular. The accounting policies set out below do also apply to the The group's most significant accounting estimates and judgements preparation of the financial statements of Avinor AS. are related to the following items, specified further in each individual note: BASIS OF PREPERATION · Valuation of deferred tax assets · Fair value of property, plant and equipment The consolidated financial statements of Avinor AS and Avinor · Depreciation of property, plant and equipment group have been prepared in accordance with International · Net pension obligation Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. · Other provisions The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) recognised partly at fair value through profit or loss and partly (cash flow Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional hedges) in other comprehensive income. currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. The whole of Avinor group's operations are defined as two cashgenerating unit (CGU), one air navigation service unit and one Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies airport operation unit including property development and hotels. are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical For the airport operation unit, the group's economic model is based cost denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the on the assumption that there is full cross-subsidisation between exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets and profitable and unprofitable airports as well as all areas of operaliabilities measured at fair value denominated in foreign currencies tions (overall system). The group has a distinct expressed objective are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. to develop, within the overall system, commercial activities in order to provide capital for unprofitable activities (social considerations/ Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income responsibilities) and reduce the level of traffic charges. Due to this statement. The functional currency of the group companies is NOK. the group assess that a solution where the group's operations, exclusive of the air navigation services, are evaluated as a whole, Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to receivables, presents a true and fair view of the operations. liabilities, cash and cash equivalents are considered to be operational and have been classified as changes in value and The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS other losses/(gains) net, presented within 'other expenses'. requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 78 AVINOR AS NOTE 3 Segment information All amounts in MNOK Operating segments are reported consistent with the internal For management purpose the group is organised in one air reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The navigation service unit and one airport operation unit according chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating to the group’s cash generating units. To better the evaluation resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, of the airport operation unit, the management has choosen has been identified as the group management. to present the airports in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and the rest inn addition to property development and hotels The Avinor group's operations include aviation security services separately. Property developments and hotels consists of office and 45 airports including Oslo Airport. The operating segments buildings and hotels. are determined based on the reports used by the group management to evaluate presentations and profitability at a strategic The segment information provided to the group management for level. The segment information shows the operating profit/(loss) the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2019 is distributed according to the internal organising of the group. as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 2 115.9 562.1 413.1 352.3 867.2 4 310.6 Other operating income 3 864.2 624.9 460.1 335.7 689.0 5 973.9 Inter-segment income 1.8 2.5 5.0 2.2 60.5 72.1 Total income 5 981.9 1 189.5 878.3 690.1 1 616.7 10 356.6 Employee benefits expense 496.8 123.0 104.8 93.4 812.8 1 630.7 Other operating expenses 1 155.0 213.3 164.7 126.4 847.3 2 506.7 Inter-segment expenses 399.8 147.1 114.6 95.1 650.5 1 407.0 Total expenses 2 051.5 483.4 384.0 314.9 2 310.6 5 544.5 EBITDA 3 930.4 706.1 494.2 375.2 -693.9 4 812.1 Depreciation and amortisation 940.0 300.2 126.4 105.8 421.1 1 893.5 Operating profit/(loss) 2 990.4 406.0 367.8 269.4 -1 115.0 2 918.6 Assets 1) 17 462.4 5 620.3 1 911.4 1 682.6 5 851.0 32 527.8 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 CONTINUED: TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 310.6 1 068.1 0.0 0.0 5 378.7 Other operating income 5 973.9 172.3 112.0 148.1 6 406.5 Inter-segment income 72.1 859.2 23.1 651.9 -1 606.2 0.0 Total income 10 356.6 2 099.7 135.1 800.0 -1 606.2 11 785.2 Employee benefits expense 1 630.7 1 476.9 0.0 601.0 3 708.6 Other operating expenses 2 506.7 486.8 5.6 1 442.9 4 442.1 Inter-segment expenses 1 407.0 95.1 2.3 101.8 -1 606.2 0.0 Total expenses 5 544.5 2 058.8 7.9 2 145.7 -1 606.2 8 150.7 EBITDA 4 812.1 40.9 127.2 -1 345.7 0.0 3 634.5 Depreciation and amortisation 1 893.5 142.7 36.0 99.4 2 171.6 Operating profit/(loss) 2 918.6 -101.9 91.2 -1 445.1 0.0 1 462.9 Assets 1) 32 527.8 912.8 760.3 277.4 34 478.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 79 Other operating expenses in the segment Others includes provisions for external environment of MNOK 871,2 as at 31 December 2019, see note 8 and 21. The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2018 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 2 144.2 561.2 411.6 366.1 923.2 4 406.4 Other operating income 3 772.8 609.4 445.2 330.1 663.8 5 821.2 Inter-segment income 1.7 3.9 5.0 2.2 62.1 74.9 Total income 5 918.7 1 174.5 861.8 698.4 1 649.1 10 302.6 Employee benefits expense 505.2 129.5 106.9 92.2 815.0 1 648.7 Other operating expenses 1 467.7 231.6 180.6 136.8 965.2 2 981.9 Inter-segment expenses 369.1 145.7 114.6 93.4 659.5 1 382.3 Total expenses 2 342.0 506.7 402.0 322.4 2 439.7 6 012.9 EBITDA 3 576.8 667.8 459.8 376.0 -790.6 4 289.7 Depreciation and amortisation 942.4 276.6 121.2 101.5 447.2 1 888.9 Operating profit/(loss) 2 634.4 391.1 338.6 274.5 -1 237.8 2 400.8 Assets 1) 17 537.1 5 697.0 1 893.1 1 739.4 5 869.8 32 736.4 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED: TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 406.4 1 106.7 0.0 0.0 5 513.1 Other operating income 5 821.2 151.4 108.2 130.2 6 211.1 Inter-segment income 74.9 849.1 21.3 609.5 -1 554.9 0.0 Total income 10 302.6 2 107.2 129.5 739.7 -1 554.9 11 724.1 Employee benefits expense 1 648.7 1 457.6 0.1 559.4 3 665.8 Other operating expenses 2 981.9 222.2 5.8 647.7 3 857.5 Inter-segment expenses 1 382.3 89.6 1.4 81.6 -1 554.9 0.0 Total expenses 6 012.9 1 769.4 7.3 1 288.7 -1 554.9 7 523.4 EBITDA 4 289.7 337.8 122.2 -549.0 0.0 4 200.8 Depreciation and amortisation 1 888.9 104.3 36.0 74.1 2 103.4 Operating profit/(loss) 2 400.8 233.4 86.2 -623.1 0.0 2 097.4 Assets 1) 32 736.4 760.0 795.8 237.6 34 529.8 1) Inclusive other intangible assets, exclusive assets under contruction. Sales between segments are according to the arm's length principle. The revenue from external parties reported to group management is measured consistent with that in the income statement. Revenue of approximately 2.7 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.8 billions (2018: NOK 2.6 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.5 billions, total 5.8 billions) and 49 per cent (2018: 49 per cent) of total operating income are derived from three main customers. Revenue from the first customer is attributable to Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, Stavanger Airport and Trondheim Airport. Revenue from the two other customers are attributable to all segments. 80 AVINOR AS NOTE 4 Operating income and other income All amounts in MNOK REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS the in-flight/en route stage of the flight in Norwegian air space of which Avinor is responsible, and terminal navigation charges for Traffic income, income from sale of goods and services and services related to monoring and control during take-off, landing income from sale of property is recognized to reflect the transfer and movement to/from gate. The en route charge is calculated of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that based on the weight of the air craft in combination with the reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be distance travelled, while the terminal navigation charge is entitled in exchange for those goods or services. calculated based on the weight of the air craft. The traffic charges are invoiced when the actual flight is carried RENTAL INCOME out, in accordance with regulations set by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. Normally the charges are invoiced Revenue from property leases with fixed lease payment is weekly with payment terms of 30 days. The en route charges are recognised in the period the services are provided, using a collected by Eurocontrol on behalf of the member countries. straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue from property leases with revenue-based lease payments is recognised Traffic income, with the exception of the en route charges, is when it is earned. distributed to the segments under airport operations. The en route charges is allocated in its entirety to the segment Air Traffic income Navigation Services. See note 3. Traffic income encompasses all charges related to infrastructure and services necessary to carry out flights to/from Norway as Other operating income well as domestic flights and is considered as a whole as one Avinor AS and the group have income from sale of goods and delivery obligation. En route charges will in addition also services directly to the customer or through rental income from encompass flights across Norwegian air space (separate delivery the same use of the areas. Encompasses duty free, kiosk, parking, obligation). The delivery obligations are satisfied when the actual shops, services, refreshments, advertising, aviation fuel, handling flights are carried out. services, hotels and infrastructure etc. Traffic income encompasses airport charges and air navigation Revenue from contracts with customers charges. Airport charges includes takeoff charges for essential Includes both cash and credit sale. The credit sale is invoiced services/infrastructure for operating a departure from one of consecutivly with payment term 30 days from invoice date. Avinor’s airports, terminal charges for essential infrastructure and provision of services to passengers on arrival, at departure, during Rental income transit, or corresponding flight services at Avinor’s airports and Includes fixed lease paymets and revenue-based lease payments, security charges for essential services/infrastructure for carrying based on lease agreements entered into, and consecutivly reports out security checks at Avinor’s airports in line with applicable of revenue. regulations. The take-off charge is calculated based on the weight of the air craft, the terminal charge on the number of passengers Fixed lease payments are invoiced in advance and recognised when departed and the security charge on the number of passenger earned. Revenue-based lease payments are reported and invoiced on the actual flight less passengers in transit. Air navigation weekly. Payment term is normally 30 days from invoice date. charges includes en route charges for services provided during COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 81 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Traffic income Takeoff charges 1 155.7 1 158.0 1 160.0 1 162.3 Terminal charges 1 235.8 1 237.0 1 240.3 1 241.4 En route charges 0.0 0.0 1 068.1 1 106.7 Security charges 1 309.7 1 400.8 1 315.2 1 406.5 Terminal navigation charges 595.1 596.2 595.1 596.2 Total traffic income 4 296.3 4 392.0 5 378.7 5 513.1 Other operating income Revenue from contracts with customers: Duty free 118.5 141.0 118.5 141.0 Parking 0.5 35.6 0.7 35.7 Other 667.7 659.9 790.4 770.2 Total 786.7 836.5 909.6 946.9 Rental income: Duty free 2 784.6 2 708.6 2 784.6 2 708.6 Parking 948.4 931.6 948.4 931.6 Other 1 664.5 1 527.9 1 763.9 1 624.0 Total 5 397.5 5 168.1 5 496.9 5 264.2 Total other operating income 6 184.2 6 004.6 6 406.5 6 211.1 Total income from contracts with customers 5 083.0 5 228.5 6 288.3 6 460.0 Total rental income 5 397.5 5 168.1 5 496.9 5 264.2 Total operating income 10 480.5 10 396.6 11 785.2 11 724.2 82 AVINOR AS NOTE 5 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Salaries and personnel costs Salaries 1 590.3 1 535.2 2 671.8 2 586.2 Payroll tax 244.4 236.5 405.3 377.3 Pension costs (exclusive plan amendments) 294.1 328.2 513.1 577.6 Other personnel costs 74.1 81.8 118.4 124.7 Total 2 202.9 2 181.7 3 708.6 3 665.8 Reduction of total salaries and personnel costs: Salaries and personnel costs recognised in the balance sheet 91.9 70.2 199.1 156.8 Average number of man-years employed 2 113 2 072 3 164 3 179 Group management The group management consists of the group CEO and the managing director of each division and the largest subsidiary in addition to the managing directors of each corporate staff. 2019 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN MNOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen, Chief Executive Officer 0 3 038 399 22 140 988 558 4 049 097 Øyvind Hasaas, Executive Vice President operations and infrastructure 0 2 231 149 16 760 672 097 2 920 006 Stine Ramstad Westby, Airport Director Oslo airport 0 1 984 318 20 296 423 933 2 428 547 Aslak Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen airport (until 28.02.2019) 0 622 710 9 821 129 947 762 479 Helge Eidsnes, Airport Director Bergen airport (from 19.08.2019) 0 677 621 3 348 129 516 810 485 Leif Anker Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger airport (until 01.03.2019) 0 432 530 2 989 81 762 517 281 Anette Sigmundstad, Airport Director Stavanger airport (from 01.03.2019) 0 1 525 741 8 367 162 759 1 696 866 Marit Helene Stigen, Airport Director Trondheim airport 0 1 841 984 17 235 129 516 1 988 735 Mari Hermansen, Vice President for Organisation and Group support 0 1 840 203 27 561 574 510 2 442 274 Petter Johannessen, Executive Vice President economy and finance 0 1 947 582 33 849 724 615 2 706 046 Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director Avinor Flysikring AS 0 2 249 628 17 080 488 625 2 755 333 Thorgeir Landevaag, Division Director national, regional and local airports 0 1 967 294 10 036 238 022 2 215 351 Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President strategy, safety and environment 0 2 026 765 15 076 610 483 2 652 323 Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Corporate Communication and Commercial 0 1 828 907 25 569 526 581 2 381 057 Total 0 24 214 830 230 126 5 880 924 30 325 879 Board Anne Carine Tanum, Chairman 484 500 0 0 0 484 500 Ola H. Strand, Vice-chairman 273 000 5 804 0 0 278 804 Herlof Nilssen 264 500 0 0 0 264 500 Linda Bernander Silseth 244 500 248 0 0 244 748 Eli Skrøvset 293 000 0 0 0 293 000 Olav Aadal 334 500 1 574 227 5 630 282 543 2 196 900 Heidi Anette Sørum 264 500 826 923 10 036 252 251 1 353 710 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 244 500 1 034 811 10 036 397 063 1 686 409 Total 2 403 000 3 442 014 25 701 931 857 6 802 572 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 83 2018 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN MNOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen, Chief Executive Officer 0 2 840 958 26 779 853 857 3 721 594 Øyvind Hasaas, Airport Director Oslo airport 0 2 164 490 23 156 778 307 2 965 954 Aslak Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen airport 0 1 758 589 13 728 322 070 2 094 387 Leif Anker Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger airport 0 1 717 919 11 956 431 467 2 161 342 Marit Helene Stigen, Airport Director Trondheim airport (from 01.02.2018) 0 1 517 681 19 039 286 585 1 823 305 Mari Hermansen, Vice President for Organisation and Group support 0 1 771 431 33 507 485 937 2 290 874 Petter Johannessen, Executive Vice President economy and finance 0 1 886 115 34 172 601 899 2 522 185 Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director Avinor Flysikring AS 0 2 122 586 18 610 471 686 2 612 882 Thorgeir Landevaag, Division Director national, regional and local airports (from 01.08.2018) 0 1 723 598 10 012 238 438 1 972 048 Jon Sjølander, Executive Vice President strategy and development (until 01.08.2018) 0 1 915 225 24 306 461 706 2 401 237 Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President strategy, safety and environment 0 2 086 933 15 052 504 826 2 606 812 Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Corporate Communication and Commercial 0 1 780 232 25 155 463 043 2 268 431 Stine Ramstad Westby, Executive Vice President operations and infrastructure 0 1 769 988 17 696 345 126 2 132 811 Total 0 25 055 746 273 168 6 244 947 31 573 861 Board Anne Carine Tanum, Chairman (from 01.07.2018) 239 000 0 0 0 239 000 Ola Mørkved Rinnan, Chairman (until 30.06.2018) 217 250 365 0 0 217 615 Ola H. Strand, Vice-chairman 271 750 3 709 0 0 275 459 Herlof Nilssen 261 000 0 0 0 261 000 Linda Bernander Silseth 234 500 374 0 0 234 874 Eli Skrøvset 285 750 0 0 0 285 750 Olav Aadal 219 000 1 602 019 5 242 281 749 2 108 010 Heidi Anette Sørum 258 500 814 269 10 012 146 468 1 229 249 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 231 250 1 005 604 10 012 295 159 1 542 025 Total 2 218 000 3 426 341 25 266 723 376 6 392 983 On termination or changes in conditions of employment or board appointment no obligations exist to give the group management or the board any distinct compensation, beyond what is stated in note 6. Nor are there any arrangements concerning bonuses, profit sharing or share-based payments. No loans or guarantees have been given to the members of the group management or the board. None of the members of the group management have received any remunerations or economic benefits from other companies in the group, other than shown in the table above. There is no additional remuneration to executives for special services other than normal operations, see note 6. 84 AVINOR AS NOTE 6 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' DECLARATION ON Svalbard Lufthavn AS THE DETERMINATION OF SALARIES AND OTHER · Carl Einar Ianssen, Managing Director REMUNERATION FOR THE CEO AND OTHER EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES OF THE AVINOR GROUP 2019 2. Declaration's validity The declaration applies for the coming financial year, ref. article According to article 8 of the company's articles of association, 8 of the articles of association and section 6-16a (2) of the Public the Board of Directors shall prepare a declaration concerning the Limited Companies Act. The group's Board of Directors will determination of salaries and other remuneration for the senior use the principles described in this declaration as the basis for management. This declaration shall be included as a note in the determining the remuneration of the CEO and in its assessment annual accounts. The declaration shall contain the contents and monitoring of the CEO's determination of remuneration of specified in section 6-16a of the Public Limited Companies Act, executive employees. and shall in addition give an account of how the 'Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned 3. The main principles of the group's executive employee enterprises and companies' is followed up in the company's remuneration policy wholly owned subsidiaries. The declaration shall be handled at the Avinor's executive remuneration policy has to comply with the company's ordinary general meeting. Reference is made to section Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel 5-6 third paragraph of the Public Limited Companies Act and the in state-owned enterprises and companies (as set out by the Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015). in state-owned enterprises and companies, as set out by the Executive remuneration in the group should comprise a competiMinistry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015. tive but not leading salary when compared to similar companies. 1. Employees covered by the declaration 3.1 Salary This declaration covers executive employees of the group; Avinor The main element of the group's remuneration packages must be AS and the wholly owned subsidiaries Avinor Flysikring AS and a fixed basic salary. Svalbard Lufthavn AS. At 1 January 2020 , the group's executive management team comprised the following employees, who are 3.2 Directors' remuneration covered by this declaration: No remuneration is paid to executive employees for board appointments in other companies in the Avinor group. Avinor AS · Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO 3.3 Benefits in kind · Petter Johannessen, Executive Vice President economy and Executive employees shall receive the benefits in kind that are finance common for comparable positions. These may include a car · Mari Hermansen, Executive Vice President HR, legal and allowance, free newspapers/magazines, free phone, laptop, business support printer and free broadband service. · Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President communications and marketing In the CEO's agreement, a car allowance may be replaced with a · Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President strategy, company car within the framework set by the Board. safety and environment · Thorgeir Landevaag, Executive Vice President national, 3.4 Performance pay regional and local airports A performance pay scheme may be established for executive · Øyvind Hasaas, Executive Vice President operations and employees based on individual targets. There must be a clear infrastructure correlation between performance pay targets and the group's · Marit Helene Stigen, Airport Director Trondheim airport targets. · Anette Sigmundstad, Airport Director Stavanger airport · Helge Eidsnes, Airport Director Bergen airport Any scheme will be structured in accordance with the guidelines · Stine R. Westby, Airport Director Oslo airport specified in the owner’s statement. Avinor Flysikring AS 3.5 Extraordinary lump sum payment · Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director for exceptional performance · Jan-Gunnar Pedersen, Director business area en-route A lump sum payment may be awarded to executive employees · Snorre Andresen, Director business area tower and approach following exceptional performance beyond what may be expected services in the relevant position, in connection with defined activities of · Ellen Lystad, Director technology services major strategic importance. The criteria for an extraordinary lump · Tor-Øivind Skogseth, Assistent Managing Director and Director, sum payment should normally be agreed in advance, and always safety, customers and public relations submitted to the group Board for approval. The payment shall be · Marisa Luisa Ruiz Retamar, Director HR and competence approved by the group Board following the recommendation of · Kresten Lyngstad, CFO the CEO. General guidelines for the scheme will be drawn up. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 85 4. Options and share programmes Executive employees appointed after 13.2.2015 are only entitled No options or similar schemes will be established in the company. to be a member of the group’s general pension plan. As at No share programme involving share-based remuneration will be 31.12.2019 this applies to five members of the group executive established in the company. management. 5. Pension plans Annual disability pension amounts to (100 per cent disability) Executive employees shall participate in the group's general 38.4 per cent of salaries between 12G and 27G. The full annual pension plan, a defined benefit plan in Statens Pensjonskasse disability pension presupposes that insured at retirement will get (the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund) or the new defined a service period of at least 20 years. If the length of services is less, contribution pension scheme. The basis for calculating pension the disability pension will be reduced proportionally. entitlements shall not exceed 12G (where G = National Insurance Scheme's basic amount). The terms shall be similar to the terms 6. Termination and severance pay that apply for other company employees. The age limit is 70 There is a three-month notice period applicable to both parties years. For most of the executive employees; members of the calculated from the first day of the month after notice is given. group's executive management and Managing Director of Avinor Notice shall be given in writing. Flysikring AS the age limit is 67 years. For newer members of the executive management the age limit is 70 years. The CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries have waived their employment protection under the Norwegian Working In the Agreement with the group’s executive management and Environment Act. For these people severance pay equivalent to Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS concluded before the 12 months' fixed salary may be agreed, including the salary of guidelines from 15.2.2015, a defined contribution retirement any notice period. Severance pay is calculated on the basis of the pension scheme for salaries exceeding 12G have been established, employee's regular monthly salary at the time of termination. inclusive a disability pension scheme. No holiday pay is accrued on the basis of the severance pay beyond the salary during the notice period. For this group the retirement pension is contribution based for salaries exeeding 12G with different rates dependent on age The severance package, for those employed after 01.01.2015, will and are administered through the company's operating budget be reduced by a proportional amount calculated on the basis of until further notice. Current personnel are divided into four age the new annual income in the event of appointment to a new groups. The pension basis for contributions is the agreed fixed position or if an income is received from an enterprise of which salary, and payment will commence once the retirement age the employee concerned is an active owner. has been reached in accordance with the individual agreement. Payment of the supplementary pension is executed by Avinor's The employee is only entitled to severance pay in excess of their payroll department monthly once the age limit of 67 is reached. salary during the notice period if they accept the termination, A condition of payment is that the employee has resigned from leave at the request of the employer, and do not submit any claim their position in the company. If the employee retires from the in relation to the rules of the Norwegian Working Environment group before reaching their pensionable age, the severance Act with regard to protection against dismissal, etc. agreement is to include a date for when payment of the pension is to start. Severance pay may be withheld if there are ground for dismissal, or if irregularities or omissions are found during the period in The following contribution plan applies: which severance pay is to be given, which may result in liability for damages or the employees being prosecuted for violation of For senior executives aged 60 and over: the law. · 30 per cent of av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and · 25 per cent of av pensionable income over 18G The CEO has concluded such an agreement dated 14 January 2011. A notice period of three months and a severance payment For senior executives aged 55 to 60: of 12 months have been agreed, which become payable upon · 25 per cent of av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination by the Company. The agreement contains provisions · 20 per cent of av pensionable income over 18G for the deduction of income from a new employer, and ceases if the employee is entitled to a disability benefit or retirement For senior executives aged 50 to 55: pension under the agreement. The CEO is not entitled to pay after · 20 per cent of av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination of employment if the employment is terminated due · 15 per cent of av pensionable income over 18G to circumstances which may result in grounds for dismissal. For senior executives aged up to 50: Members of the group’s executive management have agreed final · 15 per cent of av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and remuneration figures in their contracts of employment should · 10 per cent of av pensionable income over 18G their employment be terminated by the employer. For those members of the of the group’s executive management employed When moving up to a new rate following a birthday, this takes before the scheme was established in 2015, this has been defined effect from the first date of the month following the birthday. as 12 months of their regular fixed salary. For five members of the group’s executive management, remuneration has been defined The employer has the full right to manage their pension scheme as “reasonable final remuneration determined at the time of for salaries exceeding 12G. termination” based on their regular monthly salary. Final remuneration will only be paid if the director accepts the termination 86 AVINOR AS and does not commence proceedings under the termination Avinor Flysikring AS was adjusted in average 3.8 per cent. The regulations of the Norwegian Working Environment Act, etc. wage settlement is based on evaluation of performance. For other executive employees, an advanced agreement for The fixed salary of the managing director of Svalbard Lufthavn AS severance pay with finally determined compensation at retirewas adjusted by 0.0 per cent. ment, can not be entered into. Instead, an advance agreement with a reasonable severance pay may be agreed on, effective only The total cost of the contribution based pension scheme for if the employee is not contesting dismissal. These agreements salary exceeding 12G for executive employees before 13 February apply correspondingly to the agreements applicable to the 2015 was NOK 2,184,258 in 2019. The scheme is administered CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries. The Managing by Avinor through day-to-day operations. The premium is not Director of Svalbard Lufthavn AS has ordinary protection against taxable and dutiable. The scheme is closed for new executive dismissal and no clause regarding severance pay. employees after 13 February 2015. 7. Executive remuneration policy and implementation The individual's total pension cost is stated in the notes to the of the guidelines in the preceding year financial statements. The salary policy for executive employees in 2019 has been conducted in accordance with the above guidelines and the Lump sum payments of NOK 340,940 has been paid in 2019. guidelines discussed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 June 2019. This applies both to Avinor AS, Avinor Flysikring AS and The Board's declaration concerning the determination of salaries Svalbard Lufthavn AS. and other remuneration was published for the first time in the 2011 financial year. Executive remuneration packages are reviewed In connection with the wage settlement, the CEO's fixed salary by the Board on an annual basis. Executive remuneration was adjusted by 2.9 per cent. agreements entered into before this point in time shall not be negatively affected by this declaration. The basic salary of other executive employees in Avinor AS was adjusted in average by 4.7 per cent. The remuneration and other benefits received by executive employees in 2019 are provided in note 5 of the annual financial The base salary of the Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring statement for 2019. AS was adjusted by 2.9 per cent. Other executive employees in NOTE 7 Other operating expenses All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other operating expenses Rent buildings/land 0.0 55.2 0.0 44.9 Management/maintenance buildings 688.5 749.2 741.9 786.1 Repairs, maintenance operational materials 398.7 390.7 440.9 434.8 Control/security/guard services 830.2 902.5 837.1 909.0 Meteorological services 3.0 3.5 43.8 43.7 Consulting services 341.3 273.2 350.1 289.1 Other external services 580.9 662.1 607.4 692.0 Other operating expenses 1 213.1 1 331.8 461.4 595.8 Total 4 055.7 4 368.2 3 482.6 3 795.4 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Auditor's fees Auditor's fee fixed charge (VAT not included): Statutory audit fee 2.1 1.7 2.7 2.2 Other auditors's fees charged to profit and loss (VAT not included): Other attestation services 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.6 Other services 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.7 Total 0.5 1.1 0.6 1.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 87 NOTE 8 Other expenses All amounts in MNOK The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/gains net' or within 'finance cost'. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other expenses Pension see note 16 -244.6 0.0 -86.6 -128.8 External environment see note 21 871.2 0.0 871.2 0.0 Changes in value and other losses/gains net 39.3 -66.1 36.2 -71.0 Total 665.9 -66.1 820.8 -199.8 Changes in value and other losses/gains net: Changes in value unrealised (note 14) 55.7 -49.4 45.4 -47.9 Changes in value realised energy contracts -15.8 -20.9 -16.7 -22.7 Foreign currency translation gains/losses -0.6 4.2 7.5 -0.4 Total 39.3 -66.1 36.2 -71.0 NOTE 9 Finance income and costs All amounts in MNOK Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Accounting principles regarding finance items are described in note 14. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2019 2018 2019 2018 Finance income Interest income (excluding group receivables) 35.2 28.4 39.6 31.6 Interest income on loans to group companies 13.4 10.6 0.0 0.0 Group contributions and dividends received 0.0 0.9 0.3 1.2 Gains on financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 48.6 39.9 39.9 32.8 Finance costs Interest expense on bank borrowings 620.4 630.0 620.4 640.0 Interest expense on loans from group companies 25.8 19.9 0.0 0.0 Interest expense on lease liabilities 17.2 0.0 14.4 0.0 Interest expense on others 0.0 1.3 0.3 1.4 Other borrowing expenses 12.1 9.7 12.4 10.0 Borrowing costs capitalised (note 11) -25.3 -24.8 -44.5 -37.8 Foreign currency translation gains/losses 0.1 -0.3 0.1 -0.3 Net fair value gains/losses on bank borrowings including derivatives 35.3 22.5 35.3 22.5 Fair value loss on financial instruments (note 14) interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges, transfer from equity 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.4 interest rate swaps: fair value hedges -35.3 -22.5 -35.3 -22.5 Total 650.3 635.8 603.1 633.7 Finance income/(costs) net -601.7 -595.9 -563.2 -600.9 88 AVINOR AS NOTE 10 Income tax expense and deferred income tax All amounts in MNOK The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred Recognition of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities upon tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the transition to IFRS 16 is calculated and recognized separately for extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive use-of-rights assets and lease obligations. Offsetting is allowed, income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised and the net effect on deferred tax is therefore zero. in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Net deferred tax asset Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, The group has significant temporary differences between the on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and its tax base. This assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial has resulted in a significant deferred tax asset. An analysis made statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates of the group's tax position shows that it is probable that this asset and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the may be utilised by the group. balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax Loss carried forward liability is settled. Svalbard Lufthavn AS have a loss carried forward of MNOK 107.8. The tax effect of the loss is not included due to the uncertainty Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that regarding the utilization of the loss. it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income Change in tax rate tax assets are assessed against future taxable income and are There is no change in tax rate with effect from 1.1.2020. The tax evaluated separately. rate was, with effect from 1.1.2019, changed from 23 per cent to 22 per cent. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2019 2018 2019 2018 Income tax expense Current tax on profit for the year 230.7 241.3 298.6 290.9 Current tax on adjustments in respect of prior years 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.3 Current tax on group contributions 0.2 0.4 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences -40.2 27.0 -101.2 50.2 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -14.6 0.0 -14.6 Total 190.7 254.3 197.5 326.8 Effective tax rate reconciliation 22 (23) % of profit before tax 188.5 267.9 197.2 343.3 Effect of adjustments prior years 0.0 0.2 -2.0 -2.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -14.6 0.0 -14.6 Dividends received 0.0 0.8 0.0 1.0 Permanent differences 22 (23) % 2.2 0.0 2.4 0.0 Income tax expense 190.7 254.3 197.5 326.8 Effective tax rate 22.3 % 21.8 % 22.0 % 21.9 % COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 89 AVINOR AS: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL RECOGNIZED TAX RATE AT AT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMAT 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY IN THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2018 2019 STATEMENT INCOME 2019 Receivables -2.3 -2.3 2.5 0.0 0.2 Non-current assets -470.7 -470.7 57.3 0.0 -413.4 Right-of-use assets 0.0 131.2 -9.5 0.0 121.7 Lease liabilities 0.0 -131.2 7.5 0.0 -123.7 Borrowings -317.0 -317.0 1.4 0.0 -315.6 Provisions -70.9 -70.9 -172.9 0.0 -243.8 Pension benefits -613.7 -613.7 85.9 83.3 -444.5 Group contributions (payables) 0.4 0.4 0.0 -0.2 0.2 Profit and loss account -10.2 -10.2 1.4 0.0 -8.8 Derivative financial instruments 343.1 343.1 -13.7 55.3 384.7 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 141.2 -1 141.2 -40.2 138.3 -1 043.1 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 52.0 Presented as: Other comprehensive income expense 66.6 Profit and loss expense -14.6 RECOGNIZED AT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY IN THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2018 STATEMENT INCOME 2018 Receivables -1.7 -0.7 0.0 -2.4 Non-current assets -540.3 48.2 0.0 -492.1 Borrowings -307.5 -23.9 0.0 -331.4 Provisions -47.8 -26.4 0.0 -74.1 Pension benefits -521.0 -8.9 -111.7 -641.6 Group contributions (payables) 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Profit and loss account -13.8 3.2 0.0 -10.6 Derivative financial instruments 280.6 35.3 42.9 358.7 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 151.7 27.0 -68.4 -1 193.1 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 306.1 -1 411.6 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -243.8 -73.2 -1 549.9 -1 484.8 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 506.4 343.1 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.4 0.4 506.9 343.5 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 043.1 -1 141.2 90 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL RECOGNIZED TAX RATE AT AT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMAT 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY IN THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2018 2019 STATEMENT INCOME 2019 Receivables -3.8 -3.8 2.5 0.0 -1.3 Non-current assets -414.5 -414.5 61.1 0.0 -353.4 Right-of-use assets 0.0 190.8 -6.3 0.0 184.5 Lease liabilities 0.0 -190.8 4.7 0.0 -186.1 Borrowings -317.0 -317.0 1.4 0.0 -315.6 Provisions -74.6 -74.6 -180.0 0.0 -254.5 Pension benefits -1 018.2 -1 018.2 25.3 119.8 -873.1 Profit and loss account -10.8 -10.8 1.5 0.0 -9.3 Derivative financial instruments 341.7 341.7 -11.4 55.3 385.6 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 497.4 -1 497.4 -101.2 175.1 -1 423.4 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 67.8 Presented as: Other comprehensive income expense 82.4 Profit and loss expense -14.6 RECOGNIZED CHARGED/ AT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY IN THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2018 STATEMENT INCOME 2018 Receivables -2.0 -2.0 0.0 -4.0 Non-current assets -484.7 51.5 0.0 -433.3 Borrowings -307.5 -23.9 0.0 -331.4 Provisions -51.0 -27.0 0.0 -78.0 Pension benefits -925.1 13.7 -152.9 -1 064.5 Profit and loss account -14.3 3.0 0.0 -11.3 Derivative financial instruments 273.5 35.0 48.7 357.3 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 511.2 50.2 -104.2 -1 565.2 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 778.6 -1 819.4 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -255.9 -78.5 -2 034.6 -1 897.9 Deferred tax liability Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 611.2 400.5 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.0 611.2 400.5 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 423.4 -1 497.4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 91 NOTE 11 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment All amounts in MNOK INTANGIBLE ASSETS straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives. Method of amortisation and estimated useful life is Separately acquired intangible assets are shown at historical cost. reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised method and/or estimated useful life is accounted for as changes at fair value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets are carried at in estimates. cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Computer software Internally generated intangible assets, with the exception of Costs associated with purchasing new computer software are development costs that are recognised as intangible assets, are recognised as an intangible asset, unless it is a part of the recogised as an expense as incurred. Development costs are acquisition of hardware. Amortisation is calculated using the recognised as an intangible asset when all the criterias in IAS 38 straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated are met. useful life, normally 5 years. Cost associated with maintaining computer software programs or maintaining future usage of The useful life of an intangible asset is either finite or indefinite. computer software programs are expensed unless the changes Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised using the enchance the future usage of the program. AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AIRSPACE ORGANIZATION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2018 Cost 80.5 321.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -45.0 -208.1 Net book amount 35.4 112.8 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 35.4 112.8 Additions 0.0 6.9 Amortisation charge -4.5 -16.3 Closing net book amount 30.9 103.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 80.5 327.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -49.5 -224.4 Net book amount 30.9 103.4 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 30.9 103.4 Additions 52.0 149.8 Amortisation charge -5.5 -19.5 Closing net book amount 77.5 233.7 At 31 December 2019 Cost 132.5 477.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -55.0 -243.9 Net book amount 77.5 233.7 Estimated useful life 10 years 10 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line 92 AVINOR AS PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow GOVERNMENT GRANTS hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. A government grant is recognised at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount conditions attached to it, and that the grant will be received. or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it Government grants are recognised as income over the periods is probable that that future economic benefits associated with necessary to match them with the related costs which they are the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged grants related to assets are presented in the statement of to the income statement during the financial period in which they financial position by deducting the grant to arrive at the carrying are incurred. amount of the asset. Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Each material component of an asset is evaluated separately for the Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes object of depreciation. The materiality is assessed from the cost in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be of a component in relation to the cost of the whole asset. Land recoverable. The difference between the carrying amount and and housing are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is recoverable amount is recognised as an impairment loss in the calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to income statement. The recoverable amount is the highest of the their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an Buildings 10 50 years impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment Infrastructure 5 40 years at each reporting date. Runways and other related assets 15 50 years Vehicles 10 20 years For the purpose of assessing impairment the whole group is Other non-current assets 5 15 years defined as two cash generating units (CGU’s), see note 2. The assessment requires a great degree of professional judgement. The assets' residual values and useful lives are estimated based on Among other things, an assessment has to be made of how long experience, history and judgements, and adjusted if appropriate. a period of time the impairment may last and the difference Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the between the fair value and the carrying amount, in addition to proceeds with the carrying amount. the financial position and expected development in the market, including operating and financing cash flows. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 93 AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2018 Cost 1 202.5 23 089.6 12 988.7 1 389.1 7 163.8 3 332.0 49 165.7 Accumulated depreciation -1.8 -6 485.4 -4 021.2 -614.7 -4 222.5 -1 338.5 -16 684.0 Net book amount 1 200.7 16 604.2 8 967.6 774.4 2 941.4 1 993.5 32 481.8 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 1 200.7 16 604.2 8 967.6 774.4 2 941.4 1 993.5 32 481.8 Additions 119.4 655.5 841.5 87.7 435.2 105.5 2 244.6 Reclassification -222.8 0.0 222.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -1.5 -1.2 0.0 -4.3 -31.5 -0.4 -39.0 Depreciation charge 0.0 -784.0 -461.7 -69.8 -515.6 -108.8 -1 939.9 Closing net book amount 1 095.7 16 474.4 9 570.1 788.0 2 829.4 1 989.7 32 747.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 1 097.5 23 669.2 14 053.0 1 401.8 7 381.8 3 394.5 50 997.8 Accumulated depreciation -1.8 -7 194.8 -4 482.9 -613.8 -4 552.4 -1 404.8 -18 250.3 Net book amount 1 095.7 16 474.4 9 570.1 788.0 2 829.4 1 989.7 32 747.4 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 1 095.7 16 474.4 9 570.1 788.0 2 829.4 1 989.7 32 747.4 Additions 36.4 542.5 522.0 161.3 373.1 90.2 1 725.5 Disposals 0.0 -5.4 -0.2 -18.1 -4.5 0.0 -28.2 Depreciation charge 0.0 -748.3 -467.1 -81.9 -537.3 -112.7 -1 947.3 Closing net book amount 1 132.2 16 263.2 9 624.8 849.3 2 660.7 1 967.2 32 497.3 At 31 December 2019 Cost 1 133.9 24 202.5 14 561.4 1 505.8 7 707.0 3 443.4 52 554.0 Accumulated depreciation -1.8 -7 939.3 -4 936.6 -656.5 -5 046.3 -1 476.2 -20 056.6 Net book amount 1 132.2 16 263.2 9 624.8 849.3 2 660.7 1 967.2 32 497.3 94 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2018 Cost 1 866.0 23 604.2 12 494.7 1 473.3 8 466.7 2 973.2 50 878.0 Accumulated depreciation -2.4 -6 369.1 -3 567.0 -665.9 -5 043.4 -1 087.4 -16 735.2 Net book amount 1 863.7 17 235.1 8 927.7 807.4 3 423.3 1 885.7 34 142.8 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 1 863.7 17 235.1 8 927.7 807.4 3 423.3 1 885.7 34 142.8 Additions 123.5 703.9 844.5 97.8 536.0 108.5 2 414.2 Reclassification -222.8 0.0 222.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -5.3 -1.6 0.0 -4.5 -31.8 -0.4 -43.6 Depreciation charge 0.0 -828.6 -467.0 -74.9 -606.6 -109.9 -2 087.0 Closing net book amount 1 759.1 17 108.8 9 528.0 825.7 3 320.9 1 883.9 34 426.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 1 761.4 24 231.6 13 562.0 1 491.1 8 778.6 3 038.7 52 863.5 Accumulated depreciation -2.4 -7 122.8 -4 034.0 -665.4 -5 457.7 -1 154.8 -18 437.1 Net book amount 1 759.1 17 108.8 9 528.0 825.7 3 320.9 1 883.9 34 426.4 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 1 759.1 17 108.8 9 528.0 825.7 3 320.9 1 883.9 34 426.4 Additions 43.2 604.5 559.2 163.5 488.0 90.2 1 948.5 Disposals 0.0 -5.4 -0.2 -18.2 -5.9 0.0 -29.6 Depreciation charge 0.0 -798.7 -472.9 -86.8 -628.5 -113.8 -2 100.7 Closing net book amount 1 802.2 16 909.2 9 614.1 884.3 3 174.5 1 860.3 34 244.6 At 31 December 2019 Cost 1 804.6 24 826.9 14 098.3 1 595.0 9 188.8 3 087.6 54 601.2 Accumulated depreciation -2.4 -7 917.7 -4 484.2 -710.7 -6 014.3 -1 227.3 -20 356.7 Net book amount 1 802.2 16 909.2 9 614.1 884.3 3 174.5 1 860.3 34 244.6 Estimated useful life 10 50 years 15 50 years 10 20 years 5 15 years 5 40 years Method of depreciation NA Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 95 ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2018 Cost 2 473.2 3 193.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 Additions 1 797.0 2 049.5 Reclassification -2 244.6 -2 414.2 Closing net book amount 2 025.6 2 828.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 2 025.6 2 828.4 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 025.6 2 828.4 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 2 025.6 2 828.4 Additions 1 934.4 2 384.9 Reclassification -1 725.5 -1 948.5 Closing net book amount 2 234.5 3 264.8 At 31 December 2019 Cost 2 234.5 3 264.8 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 234.5 3 264.8 Classified as intangible 0.0 622.4 Borrowing costs less cost to sell and its value in use. The group estimates both Property plant and equipment includes borrowing costs when the fair value and value in use based on the present value of future construction period of major asset is longer than one year. cash flows. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows derived from existing assets. Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to MNOK 44.5 in 2019 and MNOK 37.8 in 2018. The group operates in its entirety in Norway and the present value of future cash flow is therefore estimated in NOK. The The average capitalisation rate for 2019 was 3.05 per cent future cash flow is then discounted based on an weighted average (2018: 2.96 per cent). discount rate relevant for the group's type of operations. The rate of return is based on 10-year Norwegian government securities Security adjusted for the group's business risk. The expense related to the Under Avinor AS's Articles of Association, assets from basic debt ratio part of the weighted average rate of return is based operations cannot be pledged as security. on the average market rate for the group. In the present value estimate for 2019 the discount rate is 6.6 per cent before tax. Basis for the measurement of recoverable amount – impairment evaluation As at 31 December 2019 the measurement of recoverable amount Due to the materiality of the group's assets and a future high for the two CGU’s of the group is estimated based on fair value investment level, impairment tests are carried out regularly. less cost to sell. Fair value is estimated based on future cash flows from operations, including future capacity increasing activities. The whole of Avinor group's operations have been defined as two cash-generating units (CGU’s), see basic principles note 2. The valuation is based on assumptions about future development in a number of parameters, the most important being passenger An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of the growth and the consumer price index. For the next 15 years, group's assets is less than its carrying amount. The recoverable passenger growth of 1.5 to 1.9 per cent and a consumer price amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value index of 1.5 to 2.0 per cent have been assumed. 96 AVINOR AS There is a close correlation between mainland GDP and passenger is a long-term infrastructure business and a short-term decline growth. The calculations assume a real increase in costs. The in traffic will not have a significant impact on the group's value. calculations include estimated investments based on the group's Various sensitivity analyzes have been performed to confirm this. investment plan, including current regulatory requirements. The Any consequences of the corona pandemic will be followed up expected value of operations beyond fifteen years is determined continuously in 2020. as a terminal value. No growth beyond inflation is assumed in the valuation of the terminal value. Investments in terminal value are As at 31 December 2019 there are no indications that the estimated on the basis of a normalized investment level. recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. A pandemic like the covid-19 outbreak will affect the number of passengers and the group's revenue in the near future. The group NOTE 12 Leases – right-of-use assets and lease liabilities All amounts in MNOK LEASES The group as lessor Operating leases The group as lessee capitalized leases A significant portion of Avinor's commercial income consists The group recognizes a lease as a right of use with an associated of rental income that is recognized in accordance with IFRS 16. lease obligation, when the asset becomes available for the group. The rental income consists of fixed rental amounts as well as Each rental payment is allocated between financial cost and lease turnover-based rent that is recognized as income over the lease liabilities. The finance cost is recognized in the income statement period in line with the delivery. The group presents assets that are over the lease period based on an interest rate which results in leased as fixed assets in the balance sheet. a constant periodic interest on the remaining capitalized lease liability for each period. Right-of-use assets are amortised over Capitalized leases the shortest of the contract period and the useful life of the asset Due to the implementation of IFRS 16 as of January 1, 2019, there using a linear method. is a significant increase in capitalized leases from this date. A more detailed description of the implementation and transition Estimated rental liability is calculated as the present value of effects are included in note 25. the expected rental payments over the rental period. The lease liability include the net fair value of fixed lease payments in the The group's assets under capitalized leases mainly include agreed period as well as the probable exercise of renewal options. buildings and other real estate, runways and land. The group's Rental payments are indexed where applicable. A discount rate total lease obligation of MNOK 492.2, includes the rent of office equal to the group's incremental borrowing rate is used. Right-ofpremises in Bjørvika, Oslo (head office) amounting to MNOK use assets are measured at cost and equal to the amount at initial 305.0 and the rental of Bodø Airport from Forsvarsbygg amountrecognition of the lease liability. Lease payments for short-term ing to MNOK 107.2. In addition to the rental payments, the group leases and low value leases are expensed as incurred. The group has obligations due to operation/maintenance and insurance has used the option in IFRS 16.4 and does not apply IFRS 16 for of the assets, which are considered as service contracts and not intangible assets. recognized in the lease obligation. The lease agreements do not contain restrictions on the company's dividend policy or financing options. The group does not have any substantial residual value guarantees attached to its leases. The group's incremental borrowing rate at 31 December 2019 is estimated at 3.05 per cent. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 97 Right-of-use assets Right-of-use assets are categorized and presented in the tables below: AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2019 Cost 26.1 465.0 102.2 2.2 0.8 596.2 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 26.1 465.0 102.2 2.2 0.8 596.2 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 26.1 465.0 102.2 2.2 0.8 596.2 Additions 0.0 16.7 0.0 2.6 0.0 19.3 Reclassification -0.1 -1.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.5 Depreciation charge -2.4 -41.8 -15.6 -1.1 -0.1 -60.9 Closing net book amount 23.6 438.6 86.6 3.7 0.6 553.1 At 31 December 2019 Cost 26.0 480.4 102.2 4.8 0.8 614.0 Accumulated depreciation -2.4 -41.8 -15.6 -1.1 -0.1 -60.9 Net book amount 23.6 438.6 86.6 3.7 0.6 553.1 Lower of remaining lease period and useful life 3 30 years 3 20 years 6 years 1 4 years 6 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2019 Cost 23.5 368.1 102.2 2.2 0.8 496.7 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 23.5 368.1 102.2 2.2 0.8 496.7 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book amount 23.5 368.1 102.2 2.2 0.8 496.7 Additions 0.0 38.5 0.0 2.6 0.0 41.1 Reclassification -0.1 -1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.2 Depreciation charge -1.0 -33.7 -15.6 -1.1 -0.1 -51.4 Closing net book amount 22.4 371.7 86.6 3.7 0.6 485.0 At 31 December 2019 Cost 23.4 405.4 102.2 4.8 0.8 536.5 Accumulated depreciation -1.0 -33.7 -15.6 -1.1 -0.1 -51.4 Net book amount 22.4 371.7 86.6 3.7 0.6 485.0 Lower of remaining lease period and useful life 3 30 years 3 20 years 6 years 1 4 years 6 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line 98 AVINOR AS Lease liabilities Specification of remaining estimated rental payments for capitalized leases and present value: AVINOR AS INTRA-GROUP LESS THAN BETWEEN OVER INCLUDED IN 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL TOTAL At 31 December 2019 Rental agreement HQ Oslo (Oslo Atrium AS) 21.4 89.8 202.5 313.7 0.0 Rental agreement Bodø Airport (Forvarsbygg) 18.4 77.2 20.3 115.8 0.0 Rental agreements other premises 23.0 94.5 79.7 197.2 175.2 Other rental agreements 2.6 7.1 9.4 19.1 3.0 Total rental payments at nominal value 65.3 268.6 311.9 645.7 178.2 Total rental payments at present value 64.3 249.9 248.0 562.2 158.8 AVINOR GROUP LESS THAN BETWEEN OVER 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL At 31 December 2019 Rental agreement HQ Oslo (Oslo Atrium AS) 27.9 117.5 220.9 366.4 Rental agreement Bodø Airport (Forvarsbygg) 18.4 77.2 20.3 115.8 Rental agreements other premises 8.6 28.1 30.3 67.0 Other rental agreements 2.7 7.3 8.5 18.5 Total rental payments at nominal value 57.6 230.1 280.0 567.7 Total rental payments at present value 56.7 214.3 221.2 492.2 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP Changes in lease liabilities Balance at 1 January 2019 (first time adoption, IFRS 16) 596.2 496.7 Additions/changes in the period 16.2 37.9 Repayments -48.7 -41.1 Interest payments -17.2 -14.7 Finance cost on lease liabilities 17.2 14.7 Reclassifications -1.5 -1.2 Total lease liabilities at 31 December 2019 562.2 492.2 Short-term lease liabilities (note 14) 64.3 56.7 Long-term lease liabilities (note 14) 497.9 435.5 Net cash-flow from lease liabilities -65.8 -55.8 The group as a lessee non-capitalized lease agreements AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2019 Specification of current year's rental cost: Operating expenses in the period related to short-term leases (including short-term low value leases) 0.9 0.9 Operating expenses in the period related to low value assets (excluding short-term leases above) 2.4 3.2 Operating expenses in the period related to intangible assets (not applying IFRS 16) 177.4 198.9 Total lease cost presented as other operating expenses 180.7 203.0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 99 Leases related to intangible assets are mainly licenses and and right-of-use assets for any of these leases. Instead, the rental maintenance agreements related to software. The group has used payments are expensed when they occur. The group also does not the option in IFRS 16.4 and does not apply IFRS 16 for intangible recognize lease obligations and rights-of-use assets for shortassets. term leases, as presented in the table above. Practical solutions used Options to extend a lease and purchase options The Group also rents office machines/IT equipment and other As of 31 December 2019, there are no significant future potential machines and equipment with lease terms from 1 to 3 years. The lease payments that are not included in the lease obligations as a group has decided not to recognize leases where the underlying result of extension or purchase options. asset has low value, and thus does not recognize lease obligations NOTE 13 Financial risk factors All amounts in MNOK The group’s activities exposes it to a variety of financial risks: EUR for the payment of luggage handling systems, navigation Market risk (including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest equipment, vehicles and others. Foreign exchange rate derivatives rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk do not normally qualify for hedge accounting. and liquidity risk. The group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise the volatility of the group’s financial The group has issued bond loans denominated in EUR. The performance. The group uses derivative financial instruments in loans is hedged by a combined interest rate and forward foreign addition to borrowings with fixed interest rates to hedge certain exchange contract in which Avinor receives coupon payment and risk exposures. principle amount in EUR and pay a predetermined amount in NOK at the same point in time. Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the board of directors. As the foreign exchange risk in overall is assessed to be limited, Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in the group has not estimated any sensitivities. For the notional close co-operation with the group’s operating units. Guidelines principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts, have been established that regulate the overall risk management, see note 14. as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative (ii) Interest rate risk financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. The group are exposed to interest rate risk through its financial activities (see note 14). Parts of the borrowings are issued at For details about financial assets and liabilities including variable rates, which means that the group is influenced by the hedging, see note 14. changes in the interest rates. The objective of the group’s interest rate management is to keep MARKET RISK the volatility of future interest costs within acceptable limits. Group policy is to interest rate hedge all long-term loans till at (i) Foreign exchange risk least 60 per cent of total debt at all time is hedged for at least 12 The group and Avinor AS are exposed to foreign exchange risk months. The group manages its effective interest exposure risk by with respect to the value of NOK against currencies caused by using various interest rate swaps. income and expenses in foreign currency. The group uses forward contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk in cash flow nomiAt 31 December 2019 approximately all interest rate swaps are nated in foreign currency. The group and Avinor AS are exposed adopted to the terms of specific loans and other conditions. to EUR, USD, GBP, SEK and DKK. When the interest rate swaps are taken into consideration, the group has 85 per cent of its long-term borrowings at a fixed rate The group’s income from en route charges is exposed to foreign of interest for at least 12 months. exchange risk. For Avinor Flysikring AS the risk is connected to the transfer of the revenue to Norway. The period from the At 31 December 2019 the group had interest rate swaps at a face determination of the exchange rate to the actual payment is value of MNOK 8,194.3 (2018: MNOK 8,194.3), where the group about three months. Revenue in foreign currency is sold forward receives a variable rate and pays a fixed average rate of 3.15 per to the extent that it is not hedged by cash outflow in the same cent of face value. The group also have interest rate swaps at face currency. The group also has foreign exchange risk connected to value of MNOK 1,264.9 (2018: MNOK 1,264.9) where the group contractual payments in foreign currency pays a variable interest rate of NIBOR and fixed Euro interest rate. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge against volatility Avinor AS has as part of the hedging of larger aquisitions, entered in the P&L reportings as a result of changes in the interest levels. into forward foreign exchange contracts in connection with the All interest rate swaps are financial hedges for a cash flow. All development of the airport terminals. These are contracts in interest swaps are carried at their fair value in the balance sheet. 100 AVINOR AS The company and the group are exposed to EURIBOR and NIBOR alternative interest rates. The transition is not expected to have as follows: MNOK 8,194.3 against EURIBOR, MNOK 1,264.9 a material effect on the company and the group's accounts. against EURIBOR and NIBOR and MNOK 1,000 against NIBOR. The interest rate swaps of the company and the group are The group's central finance department is, in collaboration with presented below: the banks, in the initial phase of the process of the transition to AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP REFERENCE NOMINAL AMOUNT DUE DATE INTEREST RATE 31 December 2019 Cash flow hedge 2 490.0 20.03.2021 EURIBOR Cash flow hedge 1 264.9 29.04.2025 EURIBOR EURIBOR Fair value hedge 1 264.9 29.04.2025 and NIBOR Cash flow hedge 4 439.5 09.02.2027 EURIBOR Total 9 459.3 The following table presents the group’s sensitivity to a defined interest rate shift as at 31 December. The simulation take into consideration all interest rate derivatives. AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2019 +50 -6.2 -45.6 -50 6.2 45.6 2018 +50 -8.0 -48.3 -50 8.0 48.3 Based on the financial instruments at 31 December 2019, the simulation shows that if the interest rate had been 0.5 per cent higher, pretax profit for the group for the year would have been MNOK 6.2 lower (2018: MNOK 8.0). The average yield on financial instruments were as follows: 2019 (%) 2018 (%) Overdraft NA NA State Loan 1.43 1.61 Bonds 3.31 3.22 Bank Loan 3.35 3.21 The figures include interest hedging derivatives. At 31 December 2019 Avinor AS had total borrowings amounting to MNOK 20,802.8 (2018: MNOK 21,740.7) in addition to a overdraft of MNOK 0.0 (2018: MNOK 0.0). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 101 (iii) Power price risk The fair value of power contracts is estimated at MNOK -2.3 The group is a consumer of electrical power. Avinor AS has (2018: MNOK 53.4) based on the exchange rate at year-end. entered into financial power contracts via Nasdaq OMX to hedge parts of it’s power consumption. Sensitivity analysis of electrical power contracts at 31 December (impact on pre-tax profit (MNOK) as a consequense of a 20 per At 31 December 2019 approximately 100 per cent of 2020’s cent increase in power price): estimated consumption is covered by such contracts. The group does not apply hedge accounting to these contracts. Power purchases are made in EUR. AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP MARKET VALUE IMPACT ON 31 DECEMBER PRE-TAX PROFIT 2019 -2.3 21.1 2018 53.4 43.1 CREDIT RISK Classification of historical information (unimpaired trade receivables): The group’s credit risks are mainly connected to airlines and air aviation-related industries. · Group 1 – new customers/related parties (in the last six months) The group has credit risks attached to three main customers. · Group 2 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than The group considers that in a normal situation there is a medium six months) with no history of default risk that the customers will not be able to fulfill their obligations. · Group 3 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than Reference is made to note 24 and the report of the Board of six months) with a history of default. All amounts have been Directors regarding the corona pandemic. paid in full after the default. The group has guidelines to limit exposure to possible losses. All intra-groups accounts and the major part part of customer receivables are classified in group 2. No financial assets have been The group has not made any third-party guarantees. renegotiated during the last financial year. No part of the loans to related parties is overdue or impaired. Maximum risk exposure is illustrated by the carried amount of the financial assets, including derivatives in the balance sheet. Since the opposite party in derivatives trading is normally banks LIQUIDITY RISK and the power trade exchange, the credit risk connected to derivatives is assessed as small. The group’s assessment is that Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its the group’s maximum credit exposure is illustrated by the carried financial obligations when they are due. The group strategy is to amounts of trade receivables and other short-term assets (see meet the risk by having sufficient funds available at anytime to note 14). The group does not have any material overdue trade be able to fulfil the financial obligations when they are due, both receivables (see note 14). under normal and extraordinary circumstances, without risking unacceptable losses. The group shall have a liquidity reserve The group’s main bank has external credit rating of A1 and AAsufficient, at anytime, to maintain business for at least twelve (Moody’s and Standard & Poors). months without raising new loans. Unused credit facilities are described in note 14. Creditworthiness in trade receivables and intra-group accounts in detail The table below analyses the maturity structure of the group’s Credit risk in non-due financial instruments which have not been financial obligations, based on contracual undisconted cash-flow. written down, may be evaluated by external sources (if available) In the case where the opposite party may demand an earlier payor based on previous negative credit records. ment, the amount is presented in the earliest period the payment may be demanded. If payment may be demanded on request, the obligations are included in the first column (less than 1 month): 102 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2019 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 8.3 823.6 1 703.9 7 456.3 12 944.1 22 936.2 Lease liabilities (see note 12) 5.4 10.9 48.9 268.6 311.9 645.7 Other commitments 1.3 2.2 15.0 314.1 722.3 1 054.9 Trade payables 240.1 118.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 358.4 Other current liabilities 246.5 121.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 367.9 Total 501.7 1 076.3 1 767.8 8 039.0 13 978.3 25 363.1 31 December 2018 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.4 221.2 1 919.0 8 349.9 13 887.6 24 387.1 Other commitments 0.1 0.1 0.5 167.4 0.0 168.1 Trade payables 319.9 157.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 477.4 Other current liabilities 277.0 136.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 413.5 Total 606.4 515.3 1 919.5 8 517.3 13 887.6 25 446.1 1) Commercial papers and derivatives included AVINOR GROUP REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2019 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 8.3 823.6 1 703.9 7 456.3 12 944.1 22 936.2 Lease liabilities (see note 12) 4.8 9.6 43.2 230.1 280.0 567.7 Other commitments 3.4 6.4 34.0 336.1 724.4 1 104.3 Trade payables 388.4 191.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 579.7 Other current liabilities 248.3 122.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 370.6 Total 653.2 1 153.2 1 781.1 8 022.5 13 948.5 25 558.5 31 December 2018 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.4 221.2 1 919.0 8 349.9 13 887.6 24 387.1 Other commitments 0.8 1.7 7.6 174.0 0.0 184.1 Trade payables 359.2 176.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 536.1 Other current liabilities 279.1 137.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 416.5 Total 648.4 537.3 1 926.6 8 523.9 13 887.6 25 523.8 1) Commercial papers and derivatives included See note 14 for information about long term loans and credit CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EQUITY facilities. The main objective of the group’s management of capital In addition to refinancing of the borrowings described above, structure is to ensure that the group’s main business objectives the group will, the next few years, require financing of new are reached within sound financial limits. infrastructure in the form of capacity expansion measures. The gross financing requirement includes refinancing of existing The overall financial objectives (sound financial limits) are the borrowings as described above and other planned investment following: activities. 1. Equity ratio: 40 per cent (according to article 5 of the company's Articles of Association) 2. Net asset value shall minimum be equal to the carried value of equity COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 103 The group manages its capital structure and makes necessary below 40 per cent of the carrying amount of the group's net adjustments based on a continuing evaluation of the existing long-term interest-bearing debt plus equity. economic business climate and the outlook in the shortand medium-term. Existing borrowings have covenants regarding amount of equity. Article 5 of the company's Articles of Association lays down the There are no equity requirement for the bonds. The loan following financial limitation: Long-term borrowings for the agreements with EIB and NIB requires equity of minimum funding of long-term assets may only be raised within a limit 30 per cent of equity pluss net interest-bearing debt. which ensures that the group's equity does not fall at any time AVINOR AS 2019 2018 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 19 613.9 20 234.5 Lease liabilities 562.2 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1 040.0 1 721.6 Net interest-bearing debt 18 011.7 18 512.9 Equity 14 509.4 13 937.0 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 32 521.1 32 449.9 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 44.6 % 42.9 % AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 19 543.9 20 234.5 Lease liabilities 492.2 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1 059.1 1 739.8 Net interest-bearing debt 17 992.6 18 494.7 Equity 15 279.0 14 540.9 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 33 271.6 33 035.6 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 45.9 % 44.0 % 1) Equity as a percentage of total equity and net interest-bearing debt. According to article 5 of the company’s Article of Association. FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and financial power forward contracts is based on market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of all interest rate swaps is obtained from the group’s treasury system and checked against market valuations made by the group’s relationship bank. The carrying amount of cash and bank overdrafts is approximately equal to the fair value of these instruments as they fall due in a short period of time. Similarly, the carrying amount of receivables and payables is approximately equal to fair value as they are entered into under normal conditions. The fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on the interest rates for debt with corresponding terms and similar credit margin. The fair value of commercial papers equals principal amount. 104 AVINOR AS Below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of Avinor AS and the group's interest-bearing debt. AVINOR AS 2019 2018 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR SPECIFICATION AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt State loan 1 638.6 1 631.2 2 083.0 2 090.5 Bonds 13 344.0 14 318.6 14 050.3 14 690.8 Bank borrowings 5 220.3 5 602.1 5 607.4 6 041.7 Commercial papers 600.0 600.0 0.0 0.0 Lease liabilities 562.2 562.2 0.0 0.0 AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR SPECIFICATION AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt State loan 1 638.6 1 631.2 2 083.0 2 090.5 Bonds 13 344.0 14 318.6 14 050.3 14 690.8 Bank borrowings 5 220.3 5 602.1 5 607.4 6 041.7 Commercial papers 600.0 600.0 0.0 0.0 Lease liabilities 492.2 492.2 0.0 0.0 The table below shows financial instruments at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: · Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) · Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) (level 2) · Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) (level 3) The following table presents the group’s, and also in all essentials the company’s, assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2019: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 105 AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 4.2 0.0 4.2 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 1 751.1 0.0 1 751.1 Total assets 0.0 1 755.3 0.0 1 755.3 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Energy contracts 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.3 Bonds 0.0 1 523.5 0.0 1 523.5 Total liabilities 2.3 1 523.5 0.0 1 525.8 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 1 631.2 0.0 1 631.2 Bonds 0.0 14 318.6 0.0 14 318.6 Bank borrowings 0.0 5 602.1 0.0 5 602.1 Commercial papers 0.0 600.0 0.0 600.0 Lease liabilities 0.0 492.2 0.0 492.2 Total 0.0 22 644.0 0.0 22 644.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year. The following table presents the group’s, and also in all essentials the company’s, assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2018: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Energy contracts 53.4 0.0 0.0 53.4 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 1 506.2 0.0 1 506.2 Total assets 53.4 1 506.3 0.0 1 559.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 6.2 0.0 6.2 Bonds 0.0 1 493.9 0.0 1 493.9 Total liabilities 0.0 1 500.1 0.0 1 500.1 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 090.5 0.0 2 090.5 Bonds 0.0 14 690.8 0.0 14 690.8 Bank borrowings 0.0 6 041.7 0.0 6 041.7 Total 0.0 22 823.0 0.0 22 823.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year. of interest-bearing debt is collected from the groups treasury system and is estimated based on the difference between the couInterest-bearing debt and derivatives in level 2 pon/fixed rate of interest on the interest-bearing debt compared The fair value estimation of derivatives is collected from the with relevant NIBOR interest rate swaps and and implicit funding groups treasury system and checked against fair value estispread from the market. mates from the relationship bank. The fair value estimation 106 AVINOR AS NOTE 14 Financial assets and liabilities All amounts in MNOK FINANCIAL ASSETS DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVIES Classification The group classifies its financial assets in the following cateDerivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a gories: At fair value through profit or loss and amortised cost. derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measThe classification is determined based on the contractual cash ured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting flow characteristic of the instrument and the business model gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated the instrument is held within. Management determines the as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. hedged. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The group designates hedging derivatives as either: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives with a positive fair value. Assets in this category are classified as (a) Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or a current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end firm commitment ( fair value hedge) of the reporting period. (b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset Amortised cost or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow Financial assets at amortised cost are assets where both the hedge) following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in The assesment of the hedge effectiveness is based on the order to collect contractual cash flows, and the contractual terms economic relationship between the hedging instrument and of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows the hedged item, and that the credit risk is not dominant in that are solely payment of principal and interest on the principal the change in fair value of the hedging instrument. The hedge amount outstanding. effectiveness is assessed prospectively. The group's financial assets at amortised cost comprise 'trade and The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a nonother receivables' in the balance sheet. current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or Other receivables consists of accruals of rental income. liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current Recognition and measurement asset or liability. Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date the date on which the group commits to purchase The group normally defines derivatives related to borrowings as or sell the assets. Investments are initially recognised at fair value hedging derivatives and as designated and qualified for hedge plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair accounting. value through profit or loss, with the exception of trade receivables which are initially recognised at transaction price in accordance The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the with IFRS 15. Thereafter they are carried at amortised cost. purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these Financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecChanges in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for ognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investhedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is ments have expired or have been transferred and the group has related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/ gains net' or within 'finance cost'. Impairment of financial assets With the exception of trade receivables, the group do not have Fair value hedge any financial assets covered by the impairment rules. For trade Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and receivables without a significant financing component, the group qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, has applied the standard’s simplified approach and measure the together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The group only for the asset from initial recognition. applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of The group has established a provision model that is based on interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The gain or loss factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income The group has historical had minor losses on trade receivables. statement within 'changes in value and other losses/(gains) net'. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 107 Changes in the fair value of the hedge fixed rate borrowings FINANCIAL LIABILITIES attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: At fair value through profit or loss and amortised cost. Cash flow hedge The classification is determined based on the contractual cash The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives flow characteristic of the instrument and the business model that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised the instrument is held within. Management determines the in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within 'net finance costs'. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivaAmounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss tives with a negative fair value. Derivatives are initially recognised in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss ( for at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The income statement. Liabilities in this category are classified as gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income of the reporting period. statement within 'finance costs'. Amortised cost When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge Financial liabilities at amortised cost are non-derivative financial no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulaliabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity quoted in an active market. Financial liabilities at amortised and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately cost are recognised intially at fair value and subsequently recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that They are included in current liabilities, unless the group has an was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least statement. 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current liabilities. Categories of financial instruments in the balance sheet: AVINOR AS ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2019 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 254.9 0.0 0.0 254.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 1 751.1 1 751.1 Other financial assets 97.9 0.0 0.0 97.9 Trade receivables 1 003.2 0.0 0.0 1 003.2 Other receivables 257.2 0.0 0.0 257.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1 040.0 0.0 0.0 1 040.0 Total 2 653.2 0.0 1 751.1 4 404.3 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES THROUGH USED FOR LIABILITIES AT PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING AMORTISED COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 194.2 1 194.2 Loans and payables to group companies 0.0 0.0 1 198.0 1 198.0 Derivative financial instruments 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.3 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 17 667.1 17 667.1 Lease liabilities 562.2 0.0 0.0 562.2 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 067.8 2 067.8 Total 564.5 0.0 22 127.1 22 691.6 108 AVINOR AS ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2018 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 376.6 0.0 0.0 376.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.0 53.5 1 506.2 1 559.7 Other financial assets 87.2 0.0 0.0 87.2 Trade receivables 899.2 0.0 0.0 899.2 Other receivables 230.3 0.0 0.0 230.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1 721.6 0.0 0.0 1 721.6 Total 3 314.9 53.5 1 506.2 4 874.6 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES THROUGH USED FOR LIABILITES AT PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING AMORTISED COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 638.6 1 638.6 Loans and payables to group companies 0.0 0.0 1 280.9 1 280.9 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 18 570.6 18 570.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 422.4 2 422.4 Total 0.0 0.0 23 912.5 23 912.5 AVINOR GROUP ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2019 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.0 4.2 1 751.1 1 755.3 Other financial assets 99.0 0.0 0.0 99.0 Trade receivables 1 215.7 0.0 0.0 1 215.7 Other receivables 276.9 0.0 0.0 276.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1 059.1 0.0 0.0 1 059.1 Total 2 650.7 4.2 1 751.1 4 406.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES THROUGH USED FOR LIABILITES AT PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING AMORTISED COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 194.2 1 194.2 Derivative financial instruments 2.3 0.0 0.0 2.3 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 17 667.1 17 667.1 Lease liabilities 492.2 0.0 0.0 492.2 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 291.8 2 291.8 Total 494.5 0.0 21 153.1 21 647.6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 109 ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2018 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.0 53.5 1 506.2 1 559.7 Other financial assets 88.3 0.0 0.0 88.3 Trade receivables 1 130.7 0.0 0.0 1 130.7 Other receivables 245.6 0.0 0.0 245.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1 739.8 0.0 0.0 1 739.8 Total 3 204.4 53.5 1 506.2 4 764.1 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES THROUGH USED FOR LIABILITES AT PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING AMORTISED COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 638.6 1 638.6 Derivative financial instruments 6.2 0.0 0.0 6.2 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 18 570.6 18 570.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 484.1 2 484.1 Total 6.2 0.0 22 693.3 22 699.5 For information about the credit quality of financial assets see note 13. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 CHANGE 2019 2018 CHANGE Assets Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 1 498.0 1 283.3 214.7 1 498.0 1 283.3 214.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 253.1 222.9 30.2 253.1 222.9 30.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.1 -0.1 4.2 0.1 4.1 Forward energy contracts 0.0 53.4 -53.4 0.0 53.4 -53.4 Total 1 751.1 1 559.7 191.4 1 755.3 1 559.7 195.6 Liabilities Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.2 -6.2 Forward energy contracts 2.3 0.0 2.3 2.3 0.0 2.3 Total 2.3 0.0 2.3 2.3 6.2 -3.9 Net change 189.1 199.5 Details of net change: Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (note 8) -55.7 -45.4 Interest rate swaps recognised in other comprehensive income 251.3 251.3 Interests rate swaps changes in value -6.4 -6.4 110 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP TOTAL HEDGING CHANGE RECOGNISED GAIN/LOSS(-) CARRYING IN CARRYING IN OCI RECOGNISED AMOUNT AMOUNT 2019 2019 IN OCI 31 December 2019 Derivative financial instruments 1) Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 1 498.0 214.7 250.8 247.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 253.1 30.2 0.5 -3.6 Total 1 751.1 244.9 251.3 244.1 TOTAL HEDGING CHANGE RECOGNISED GAIN/LOSS(-) CARRYING IN CARRYING IN OCI RECOGNISED AMOUNT AMOUNT 2018 2018 IN OCI 31 December 2018 Derivative financial instruments 1) Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 1 283.3 256.6 186.1 52.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.9 33.9 0.2 -4.1 Total 1 506.2 290.5 186.3 48.0 1) Line item in the statement of financial position These derivative financial instruments are also cash flow hedges The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign of foreign exchange loans in EUR to fixed NOK. There has been no exchange contracts at 31 December 2019 was MNOK 151 (2018: ineffectivity in these hedging instruments. MNOK 203). All interest rate swaps, with the exception of one fair value hedge, The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward energy are designated as cash flow hedges. contracts at 31 December 2019 was MNOK 107 (2018: MNOK 162). Forward foreign exchange and energy contracts are not defined The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate as hedge accounting and are classified as a current asset and/or swaps contracts at 31 December 2019 were MNOK 9,459 (2018: liability. MNOK 9,459). At 31 December 2019, the fixed interest rates vary from 1.11 per cent to 4.62 per cent (2018: 1.11 per cent to 4.58 per Interest rate swaps are defined as hedge accounting instruments cent). The main floating rate is NIBOR and fixed Euro interest rate. and the fair value of the hedging instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or comprehensive income (note 15) on interest rate swap contracts liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less as of 31 December 2019 will be continuously released to the than 12 months. The ineffective portion of the hedge is recogincome statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings. nised in the income statement. The interest rate swaps have a maturity of between 1.2 and 7.1 years as at 31 December 2019 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the (2.2 and 8.1 years at 31 December 2018). fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other financial assets Other non-current receivables 97.9 87.2 99.0 88.3 Total 97.9 87.2 99.0 88.3 Other non-current receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments that are not quoted in an active market. Fair value of other financial assets are substantially identical with book value. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 111 TRADE RECEIVABLES, OTHER SHORT TERM RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade receivables Trade receivables 1 004.0 911.3 1 223.7 1 149.7 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables -0.8 -12.1 -7.9 -19.1 Trade receivables net 1 003.2 899.2 1 215.8 1 130.6 Receivables written off during the year 1.4 7.9 1.4 7.9 The fair value of trade receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. Loss on trade receivables is classified as other operating expense in the income statement. CHANGES IN THE PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT OF TRADE RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 At 1 January 12.1 8.3 19.1 9.4 This years provisions for receivables impairment 0.8 12.1 7.9 19.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible -1.4 -7.9 -1.4 -7.9 Unused amounts reversed -10.7 -0.4 -17.7 -1.5 At 31 December 0.8 12.1 7.9 19.1 Credit risk and foreign exchange risk are described in note 13. AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE COMPANY'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2019 1 004.0 969.1 30.9 2.1 0.4 1.5 2018 911.3 753.5 121.5 5.4 10.5 20.4 AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE GROUP'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2019 1 223.7 1 180.9 31.2 2.4 0.5 8.7 2018 1 149.7 991.7 121.6 5.4 10.6 20.4 112 AVINOR AS SPECIFICATION OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Specification of trade and other receivables Trade receivables 1 003.2 899.2 1 215.8 1 130.6 Intra-group accounts 104.9 186.6 0.0 0.0 Accrued income 199.4 199.0 209.5 199.7 Prepaid expenses 60.4 40.5 80.2 42.5 Other short-term receivables 57.8 31.3 67.4 45.9 Total 1 425.7 1 356.6 1 572.9 1 418.7 Fair value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY IS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Euro 0.0 0.0 92.1 98.9 Total 0.0 0.0 92.1 98.9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and bank overdrafts. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash and bank at hand 1 040.0 1 721.6 1 059.1 1 739.8 Short-term bank deposits 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 040.0 1 721.6 1 059.1 1 739.8 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 1 040.0 1 721.6 1 059.1 1 739.8 Bank overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 040.0 1 721.6 1 059.1 1 739.8 Avinor AS has a credit facility of MNOK 4,000 and a bank overdraft limit of MNOK 600. Group bank account system The Avinor bank accounts are organised as a group bank account system. Avinor AS is the formal holder of the bank account. The bank accounts of all subsidiaries are therefore formally receivables from Avinor AS, and these companies are jointly responsible for the withdrawals that the Avinor group has made. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 113 BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for borrowings hedged with a derivative fair value hedge, which is also carried at fair value in subsequent periods. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current borrowings State loan 1 194.2 1 638.6 1 194.2 1 638.6 Bonds 12 893.9 13 350.3 12 893.9 13 350.3 Bank borrowings 4 773.2 5 220.3 4 773.2 5 220.3 Lease liabilities 497.9 0.0 435.5 0.0 Total long-term 19 359.2 20 209.2 19 296.8 20 209.2 Current borrowings Commercial papers 600.0 0.0 600.0 0.0 First year instalment on long-term debt 1 341.5 1 531.5 1 341.5 1 531.5 Lease liabilities 64.3 0.0 56.7 0.0 Total current 2 005.8 1 531.5 1 998.2 1 531.5 Total current and long-term borrowings and lease liabilities 21 365.0 21 740.7 21 295.0 21 740.7 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Changes in borrowings Opening net book amount at 1 January 21 740.7 22 215.7 21 740.7 22 811.4 Opening net book amount at 1 January lease liabilities (first time adoption IFRS 16, see note 12) 596.2 0.0 496.7 0.0 Repayment of borrowings -1 531.5 -579.0 -1 531.5 -1 174.7 Repayment of lease liabilities -48.7 0.0 -41.1 0.0 Other changes in lease liabilities 14.7 0.0 36.6 0.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) 600.0 0.0 600.0 0.0 Changes in value -6.5 103.9 -6.5 103.9 Closing net book amount at 31 December 21 365.0 21 740.7 21 295.0 21 740.7 EFFECTIVE INTEREST INFORMATION ABOUT STATE LOAN AND BANK BORROWINGS CURRENCY RATE (%) State loan NOK 1.43 % Bonds, inclusive commercial papers NOK/EUR 3.31 % Bank borrowings NOK 3.35 % The figures include interest hedging derivatives. The effective interest rate is calculated as a weighted average depending the relative size of the borrowings. See note 13 for a description of interest risk. 114 AVINOR AS REPAYMENT PROFILE 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 THEREAFTER TOTAL State loan 444.4 444.4 249.6 55.9 0.0 0.0 1 194.2 Bonds 2 958.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 3 003.2 6 931.8 12 893.9 Bank borrowings 447.1 447.1 527.1 527.1 527.1 2 297.7 4 773.2 State loan Bank borrowings The loan is divided into six equal debentures with different Bank borrowings in Avinor AS, as at 31 December 2019, are as interest terms. Debentures one to five have interest rates equal to follows: the interest rate used by the State when lending to public sector enterprises (average interest rate on five-year government bonds · Loan of NOK 1.5 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank in the period October-September) plus 30 basis points. The inter(NIB). The loan, disbursed in December 2011, has a term of est on one of the debentures is renewed each year. The interest 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. is payable in arrears at 31 December. The loan had originally a · Loan of MNOK 1525.3 from the European Investment Bank payment period of 20 years starting 2002. The term of the loan (EIB). The loan, disbursed in June 2012, has a term of 16 years has subsequently been extended so that the final maturity date is and is irredeemable for 4.5 years. in 2024. The first instalment was paid 30 June 2002. · Loan of NOK 1.0 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in November 2015, has a term of Bonds 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. The loans, as at 31 December 2019, are as follows: · Loan of MNOK 1899.9 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in April 2016, has a term of 12 years · Face value MNOK 450, maturity date 8 May 2020, and is irredeemable for 3 years. interest rate 3.75 per cent · Face value MNOK 2,000, maturity date 8 May 2028, According to its Articles of Association the company is not interest rate 4.45 per cent allowed to pledge assets connected to the core business of the · Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 20 March 2021, group as security. interest rate 1.75 per cent · Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 29 April 2025, Commercial papers interest rate 1.00 per cent In 2019, Avinor AS entered into a new certificate loan agreement · Face value MEUR 500, maturity date 9 February 2027, of MNOK 600.0 with maturity on 20 March 2020. interest rate 1.25 per cent Drawing facilities The group has an unused bank credit facility of MNOK 4,000 at a floating interest rate, expiring in 2024. As a part of the current main bank agreement, the group also has an unutilized overdraft limit of MNOK 600 at a floating interest rate. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 115 NOTE 15 Other reserves All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2018 -622.2 -96.0 -718.1 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations -485.6 0.0 -485.6 Tax effect 111.7 0.0 111.7 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 186.3 186.3 Tax effect 0.0 -42.9 -42.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -12.9 0.6 -12.3 At 31 December 2018 -1 009.0 48.0 -960.9 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 378.5 0.0 378.5 Tax effect -83.3 0.0 -83.3 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 251.3 251.3 Tax effect 0.0 -55.3 -55.3 At 31 December 2019 -713.8 244.0 -469.7 AVINOR GROUP PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2018 -1 021.6 -115.8 -1 137.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations -666.3 0.0 -666.3 Tax effect 152.9 0.0 152.9 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 211.9 211.9 Tax effect 0.0 -48.7 -48.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -20.2 0.6 -19.6 At 31 December 2018 -1 555.2 48.0 -1 507.4 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 544.6 0.0 544.6 Tax effect -119.8 0.0 -119.8 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 251.3 251.3 Tax effect 0.0 -55.3 -55.3 At 31 December 2019 -1 130.4 244.0 -886.6 116 AVINOR AS NOTE 16 Pension obligation All amounts in MNOK The company and the group is required by law to have a pension Net pension obligation plan. The pension plan of the company and the group satisfies The value of net pension obligations is determined on an actuarial these requirements. The company and the group have generally basis using a number of assumptions. These include, among been covered by a defined benefit pension scheme in the others, the discount rate, future salary increases, regulation of Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK), but with effect pensions and demographic assumptions about disability and from 1 January 2019 this scheme is closed. As of the same date, mortality experience. The assumptions are based on verifiable a defined contribution pension scheme has been introduced in market prices and the historical development in the company accordance with the Act on Defined Contribution Occupational and the society in large. Changes in the assumptions will have Pensions with voluntary/forced transfers for different groups of material effect on the estimated pension obligation-/cost. empoyees. As a result, the company and the group have two main pension schemes from 2019. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN IN STATENS PENSJONSKASSE (SPK) A defined contribution pension scheme is a scheme where the employer commits to pay an agreed premium to the scheme and The defined benefit pension schemes of the group are generally where the premium payments are recognized in profit and loss as funded through payments to Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian incurred. The contribution represents a percentage of salary up to Public Service Pension Fund, SPK), determined by periodic actuarial 12 G. The employer has no obligations beyond the contributions. calculations. A defined benefit pension plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive Defined benefit plan on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as years of The pension scheme comprises benefits in accordance with the service and salary level. act relating to the Norwegian Public Service Fund (SPK). The benefits are retirement pension, disability pension and dependent The pension liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of pension. The retirement pension includes a special-age retirement defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined pension for certain groups. In addition, the calculations include benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair a contractual pension right, which is a tariff regulated early value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated retirement scheme from 62 years of age (the public AFP scheme). annually by independent actuaries based on a principle of linear The benefits under the regulations applicable up to 1 January 2020 benefit earning. The present value of the defined benefit obligation were coordinated with the National Insurance Scheme and any is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflow previously earned right from public pension schemes. Gross using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or long-term pensions earned under old regulations have been guaranteed treasury bonds) that are denominated in the currency in which regardless of the National Insurance Scheme (the “gross guarantee”). the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. The new Act on public occupational pension schemes, effective 1 January 2020, was adopted by the Storting in June 2019. The Changes in assumptions, basis data and the benefits of the pension benefits earned in the new scheme represents a percentage of plan which have as an effect an accounting loss or gain will be the salary up to 12 G. This means that the “gross guarantee” is recognized in equity through other comprehensive income in no longer present in the new regulations and that the pension the period they occur. A change in the benefits which refers to is calculated regardless of the National Insurance Scheme. previous periods of earning implies a change in the pension plan New regulations for coordination between public occupational which is a cost related to previous periods of earning. A negative pensions schemes and the National Insurance Scheme have been cost occurs when the benefits are changed and the present value adopted and implemented in the accounts for 2019. The changes of the projected benefits are reduced. Changes in the pension are reflected as a plan change in the accounts for 2019 and had a plans are recognized in the income statement as the changes positive effect on earnings of MNOK 33.0 in the group and MNOK are implemented. 181.4 in the company. Pension fund The new law does not contain provisions on a new public AFP The pension scheme is not directly funded. The pension payments scheme or complete rules for special-age retirement pension. are guaranteed by the Norwegian government (Section 1 of the As a resultat, the accounting effects cannot be calculated until Pensions Act). Management of the allocated fund ( fictitious final rules have been adopted. fund) is simulated as if the funds were invested in long term government bonds. Approx. 15 per cent of the fund related to With effect from 1 January 2018, new rules were introduced that Avinor Flysikring AS and approx. 10 per cent of the fund related transferred the obligation to pay for the adjustment premium on to Avinor AS is simulated as invested in the Government Pension pension liabilities related to former employees from the state to Fund Global. The pension scheme is not movable in the same the individual company. way as private pensions schemes and it is assumed that the pension scheme will be continued in SPK. In the simulation it is Acuarial gains in 2019 (MNOK 544.6 in the group and MNOK assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension fund is 378.5 in the company) is due to changes in the economic and therefore estimated at nominal value plus the return on the fund. actuarial assumptions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 117 Transition to a defined contribution pension scheme, organizations and the state. The state covers one third of the including other benefits to employees included in the expenses in the scheme, while two thirds are covered by the scheme member companies. As a result of the closure of the public occupational pension scheme and the transition to a private pension scheme, a new For accounting purposes, the scheme is regarded as a defined scheme related to special-age retirement pensions has been benefit multi-enterprise scheme. At present, it is not possible, established. In addition, from 1 January 2019, the group will be a with sufficient degree of reliability, to calculate the group's part of the private AFP scheme when it comes to employees in the share of the liabilities in the scheme. The scheme is therefore new private pension scheme. The changes related to special-age accounted for as a defined contribution scheme with ongoing retirement pension and AFP are reflected as a plan change in the expense recognition of premium payments. accounts for 2019 and have had a positive effect on earnings of MNOK 53.6 in the group and MNOK 63.2 in the company. The scheme is significantly underfunded. In addition, companies participating in the AFP scheme are jointly and severally Details on the private AFP scheme responsible for two-thirds of future pension payments. As a From 1 January 2019, the group will be a part of the private AFP consequence, an increase in the premiums for the scheme is scheme, which is a collective pension scheme for the tariff-based expected in the future. The 2020 premium will be 2.5 per cent of sector in Norway. The private AFP scheme is based on a tripartite a salary basis, which is further defined in the scheme's articles of collaboration between employer organizations, employee association. Pension cost The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Defined contribution pension and private AFP scheme 49.3 0.0 138.4 0.0 Current service cost 181.9 265.3 241.8 449.7 Plan amendment inclusive curtailment/settlement -214.4 0.0 -75.9 -113.0 Interest cost 145.5 136.9 247.5 229.3 Return on plan assets -97.3 -93.5 -154.4 -151.4 Contribution from the employees -19.3 -28.4 -22.3 -47.3 Administration fee 4.4 4.0 5.3 6.7 Payroll tax, employers contribution -0.6 43.9 45.9 74.8 Total pension cost (Note 5, 8) 49.5 328.2 426.4 448.8 Net pension obligations – defined benefit plan The tariff K2013 have been used for calculating life and mortality expectancy, while the tariff K1963 multiplied by 200 per cent have been used for determination of disability risk. LIFE EXPECTANCY MORTALITY EXPECTANCY DISABILITY EXPECTANCY AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 20 81 85 0.023 % 0.009 % 0.115 % 0.172 % 40 82 86 0.058 % 0.034 % 0.264 % 0.524 % 60 84 87 0.428 % 0.288 % 1.406 % 2.404 % 80 89 91 4.304 % 2.947 % NA NA 118 AVINOR AS Pension obligation and plan assets: AVINOR AS 2019 2018 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 6 431.7 28.7 6 460.4 5 817.8 27.6 5 845.4 Current service cost 178.0 8.4 186.3 268.2 1.1 269.3 Plan amendment incl. curtailment/settlement -214.4 0.0 -214.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest cost 145.2 0.3 145.5 136.9 0.0 136.9 Actuarial losses/(gains) -336.7 -6.0 -342.7 371.5 0.0 371.5 Benefits paid -185.5 -2.3 -187.8 -162.7 0.0 -162.7 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 6 018.2 29.2 6 047.4 6 431.7 28.7 6 460.4 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 4 012.1 0.0 4 012.1 3 853.0 0.0 3 853.0 Expected return on plan assets 97.3 0.0 97.3 93.5 0.0 93.5 Employer contributions 358.9 0.0 358.9 282.4 0.0 282.4 Actuarial (losses)/gains -11.0 0.0 -11.0 -54.1 0.0 -54.1 Benefits paid -185.5 0.0 -185.5 -162.7 0.0 -162.7 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 4 271.8 0.0 4 271.8 4 012.1 0.0 4 012.1 Net pension obligation 1 746.4 29.2 1 775.5 2 419.6 28.7 2 448.3 Payroll tax, employers contribution 235.3 9.8 245.2 341.1 0.0 341.1 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 981.7 39.0 2 020.7 2 760.7 28.7 2 789.4 Actual return on plan assets last year 72.9 0.0 72.9 69.6 0.0 69.6 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 306.2 0.0 306.2 245.4 0.0 245.4 Expected payment of benefits next year -186.8 0.0 -186.8 -175.0 0.0 -175.0 AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 10 358.2 286.8 10 645.0 9 706.7 28.1 9 734.8 Current service cost 221.8 25.4 247.1 455.1 1.3 456.4 Plan amendment incl. curtailment/settlement -171.8 95.9 -75.9 -370.4 257.4 -113.0 Interest cost 240.7 6.8 247.5 229.3 0.0 229.3 Actuarial losses/(gains) -527.9 -6.6 -534.4 542.3 0.0 542.3 Benefits paid -240.6 -2.3 -242.9 -204.8 0.0 -204.8 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 9 880.3 406.2 10 286.4 10 358.2 286.8 10 645.0 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 6 578.3 0.0 6 578.3 6 195.4 0.0 6 195.4 Expected return on plan assets 154.4 0.0 154.4 151.4 0.0 151.4 Employer contributions 358.1 0.0 358.1 478.7 0.0 478.7 Actuarial (losses)/gains -52.3 0.0 -52.3 -42.4 0.0 -42.4 Benefits paid -240.6 0.0 -240.6 -204.8 0.0 -204.8 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6 797.8 0.0 6 797.8 6 578.3 0.0 6 578.3 Net pension obligation 3 082.5 406.2 3 488.7 3 779.9 286.8 4 066.7 Payroll tax, employers contribution 431.6 52.5 484.1 530.3 36.3 566.6 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 3 514.1 458.7 3 972.8 4 310.2 323.1 4 633.4 Actual return on plan assets last year 108.9 0.0 108.9 121.6 0.0 121.6 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 423.2 0.0 423.2 251.5 0.0 251.5 Expected payment of benefits next year -247.3 0.0 -247.3 -217.9 0.0 -217.9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 119 Change in the defined benefit obligation over the year: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Obligation at 1 January 2 448.3 1 992.4 4 066.7 3 539.4 Pension cost charged to the income statement 20.1 312.7 264.4 421.3 Employer/employee contribution -363.3 -286.4 -363.3 -485.4 Administration fee 4.4 4.0 5.3 6.7 Benefits paid unfunded schemes -2.3 0.0 -2.3 0.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income -331.7 425.6 -482.1 584.7 Liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 775.5 2 448.3 3 488.7 4 066.7 Actuarial (gains)/losses on pension liabilities Actuarial (gains)/losses -331.7 425.6 -482.1 584.7 Effect change in payroll tax rate -46.8 60.0 -62.5 81.6 Total actuarial (gains)/losses on pension liabilities -378.5 485.6 -544.6 666.3 The calculation of pension cost and net pension obligation are made based on a set of assumptions. The discount rate is based on Norwegian covered bond interest rates. The pension obligation's weighted average duration is 24 years for the group and 21 years for the company. Assumptions regarding future salary and pension increases in addition to official pension benefit adjustments are based on updated recommendations from the The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board (NASB). 2019 2018 Discount rate 2.30 % 2.60 % Future salary increases 2.25 % 2.75 % Future pension increases 1.25 % 1.75 % Early retirement scheme 15.00 % 15.00 % Average turnover rate (under 50 years of age) 3.00 % 3.00 % Average turnover rate (over 50 years of age) 0.20 % 0.20 % The probability of retiring by use of special age pensions in Avinor AS and Svalbard Lufthavn AS is estimated at 50 per cent if >50 years, 35 per cent if 55-40 years and 10 per cent if <40 years. For Avinor Flysikring AS, corresponding estimates are 90 per cent if >55 years, 40 per cent if 55-40 years and 10 per cent if <40 years. Determination of premium levels The determination of premium levels and the calculation of provisions for pension obligations are based on ordinary actuarial principles. Pension obligation sensitivities 2019 2018 CHANGE IN PENSION OBLIGATION AS A RESULT OF ONE PERCENTAGE POINT CHANGES IN FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS: +1 -1 +1 -1 Discount rate -1 737 2 318 -1 879 2 535 Future salary increase 401 -367 970 -1 125 Pension regulation 1 863 -1 445 1 001 -1 167 120 AVINOR AS NOTE 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges All amounts in MNOK PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. When the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. AVINOR AS ENVIRONRETIREMENT MENTAL PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2018 3.3 182.3 1.8 187.3 Additional provision 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Reversed -2.1 0.0 0.0 -2.1 Used -1.2 -15.5 -0.7 -17.4 At 1 January 2019 0.0 166.8 1.2 168.1 Additional provision 27.0 871.2 0.0 898.2 Reversed 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Used 0.0 -10.7 -0.5 -11.2 At 31 December 2019 27.0 1 027.3 0.7 1 054.9 AVINOR GROUP ENVIRONRETIREMENT MENTAL PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2018 15.1 184.4 1.8 201.3 Additional provision 10.4 0.0 0.1 10.5 Reversed -2.1 0.0 0.0 -2.1 Used -9.5 -15.5 -0.7 -25.7 At 1 January 2019 13.9 168.9 1.2 184.1 Additional provision 69.1 871.2 0.0 940.3 Reversed 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Used -8.8 -10.7 -0.5 -20.0 At 31 December 2019 74.2 1 029.4 0.7 1 104.3 The short-term part of provisions for other liabilities and charges are included in other short term liability. See note 13. Retirement pay air navigation management The group has entered into individual early retirement pay agreements covering 72 per cent of normal wages in the period 60-62 years. After this period the individuals will be covered by ordinary pension plans. Early retirement pay others This include optional retirement pay in accordance with the group's policy related to restructuring. Environmental pollution A provision is made for cost related to surveys and mapping, as well as handling of contamined land (see note 21). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 121 NOTE 18 Other short-term liabilities All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Holiday allowance 184.5 180.3 311.5 307.2 Advance from customers 164.1 135.4 183.0 161.4 Wages and social security 53.7 57.9 98.0 92.0 Accruals 315.8 380.0 362.4 428.9 Intra-group liability 1 198.0 1 280.9 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liability 367.7 413.5 370.5 416.5 Total 2 283.8 2 448.1 1 325.4 1 406.0 NOTE 19 Subsidiaries All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP The consolidated financial statements encompasses Avinor AS and all entities over which Avinor AS has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. As at 31 December 2019 all subsidiaries are wholly owned. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains/losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. AVINOR AS Shares in subsidiaries are recognised at cost at the acquisition date and are classified as a long-term investment. The shares are assessed whether there is any indication that their carrying amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale. The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2019: TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2019 2019 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 154.5 13.3 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 357.5 -77.3 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 670.0 1 113.2 7.4 Sjømatterminalen AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 21.5 20.0 -0.7 Total 1 163.0 1 645.2 -57.3 122 AVINOR AS TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2019 2019 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 108.0 156.4 8.6 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 132.8 115.5 6.4 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 86.7 129.2 10.5 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 19.1 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 299.1 34.1 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 108.2 12.5 Total 585.1 827.5 72.4 The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018: TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2018 2018 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 142.2 13.9 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 304.2 184.4 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 670.0 1 105.8 4.9 Sjømatterminalen AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 20.0 20.0 -1.4 Total 1 161.6 1 572.2 201.8 TOTAL PROFIT/ HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY LOSS INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2018 2018 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 108.0 147.8 6.9 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 132.8 109.1 -0.2 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 86.7 118.6 3.9 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.8 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 265.0 26.4 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 95.7 9.9 Total 585.1 755.0 47.2 NOTE 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results All amounts in MNOK SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM RESERVE Ordinary shares are classified as equity. DIVIDEND DISTRUBUTION Dividend distribution to the company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the group's financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the company's shareholders. NUMBER OF SHARES FACE VALUE SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 Total 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 123 The company has paid the following dividend on ordinary shares: 2019 2018 NOK 462.3 per share in 2017 0.0 249.7 NOK 1083.1 per share in 2018 584.9 0.0 Total 584.9 249.7 Proposed dividend for approval in the general assembly (Not presented as a liability at 31 December): 2019 2018 NOK 1083.1 per share in 2018 0.0 584.9 Total 0.0 584.9 All shares are owned by the Norwegian State, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. NOTE 21 Contingencies and uncertainties Air stations owned by the Defence PFAS are fluorine organic compounds that were previously The Storting decided, in 2012, that Bodø's main air station, will be added to fire foam and which have spread to the ground at the closed down, while Evenes will be the advanced base for fighter airports where they are now leaking out to the surrounding planes in the north. Bodø airport shall function as an advanced natural environment. These pollutants pose a risk of damage to base after the close-down of Bodø main air station. This will be an the local natural environment and human health. Norway has intermediate solution until the new fighter planes are operacommitted internationally to reducing emissions and leakage of tional and have replaced the existing planes. This is expected to these compounds. Clean-up responsibility has been identified at take place in 2022. The cost picture may also be affected by the 24 locations at 22 airports. The provision (see note 17) is based on construction of a new airport in Bodø which is included in the the excavation of contaminated land, transport and depositing National Transport Plan 2018-2029 during the first six-year period. at an approved landfill. In addition, an uncertainty margin has been added to the provision due to lack of delimitation of the The Storting decided on 15 November 2016 that Andøya military pollutants, and a mark-up for further surveys, planning and air station will be shut down when today's P-3 Orion surveillance rigging. Provisions are calculated based on an assessment of each aircrafts are phased out and that a main base for surveillance/ airport including scope, cost related to clean-up, environmental advanced base for fighter aircraft at Harstad/Narvik airport/ impact and operation and rig. The calculations also consider the Evenes will be established expected to take place in 2022. This cost of similar, comparable cleanups that have been carried out, will lead to changes in the operational responsibility at Andøya and the uncertainty in the calculations. In February 2020, Avinor airport. Changes in the operational responsibility mean that the received a follow-up letter from the Norwegian Environment Norwegian Defence are no longer the airport manager and airport Agency. The letter supported the assessments used by Avinor operator. The airport operation must be taken care of by another when calculating the provision. The Norwegian Environment party, and then a party in civil aviation. The consequence is that Agency has signaled that they will begin to impose cleanup on 14 the company that receives the operational responsibility also sites within 7 years in the period 2022-2030. receives responsibility for all revenues and costs. This entails a risk of increased deficits, and an increased cost burden on the parties in Pensions civil aviation. There is a high probability that Avinor will receive the A new act on public sector occupational pension schemes, with operational responsibility including accompanying consequences. effect from 1 January 2020, was adopted by the Storting in June 2019. The accounting consequences of the new law are, to the The external environment extent that there is sufficient basis for this, been accounted for in In accordance with requirements from the Norwegian the fourth quarter of 2019. The new law does not contain proviEnvironment Agency, a preliminary survey of possible environsions for a new AFP scheme (early retirement) or complete rules mental obligations related to PFAS pollution ( fire foam) has on special age pensions. The full accounting effects of the new law been carried out at Avinor airports (except for Evenes airport, cannot be calculated until final rules have been adopted. See note Kristiansand airport, Oslo airport and Svalbard airport where 16 for further information on accounting treatment of pensions. there are already ongoing cases). The entire group will be a member of the private AFP scheme 124 AVINOR AS (early retirement) from 1 January 2019 and it will apply to all multi-enterprise scheme. At present, it is not possible, with a employees who have transitioned from defined benefit pensions sufficient degree of reliability, to calculate the group's share of the in the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK) to defined obligations in the scheme. The scheme is therefore accounted contribution pensions. The scheme is based on a tripartite for as a defined contribution scheme with ongoing expense collaboration between employers' organizations, employee recognition of premium payments. organizations and the state and is regarded as a defined benefit NOTE 22 Commitments All amounts in MNOK The parent company and the group have contracted for capital expenditure not yet incurred at the end of the reporting period as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 Property, plant and equipment 1 361.7 716.6 1 719.4 729.1 Total 1 361.7 716.6 1 719.4 729.1 NOTE 23 Related-party transactions All amounts in MNOK The Ministry of Transport and Communication As the sole owner of Avinor AS the Norwegian State represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (SD) is a related party. SD has the principal authority regarding the structure of the airport network and the traffic charges. Any closing down of an airport or other material changes in the airport structure shall be presented to SD. The final decision is made by the Storting. The charges regulation which decides the setting of air traffic charges shall be sanctioned by SD. Group companies Outstanding accounts between companies in the group: AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 SVALBARD AVINOR SJØMATAVINOR FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS TERMINALEN AS UTVIKLING AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.0 Intra-group receivables 16.7 86.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Total 116.7 86.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.2 Other short-term intra-group liability 25.5 480.7 0.0 530.2 37.4 3.5 Total 25.5 480.7 0.0 530.2 37.4 3.5 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 Intra-group receivables 0.1 0.0 1.6 0.0 104.9 Total 15.1 0.0 1.6 0.0 254.9 Other short-term intra-group liability 9.9 17.7 56.5 36.6 1 198.0 Total 9.9 17.7 56.5 36.6 1 198.0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 125 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 SVALBARD AVINOR SJØMATAVINOR FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS TERMINALEN AS UTVIKLING AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 120.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 45.0 Intra-group receivables 2.5 161.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Total 122.5 161.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 45.3 Other short-term intra-group liability 65.7 601.5 0.0 522.5 21.7 -2.1 Total 65.7 601.5 0.0 522.5 21.7 -2.1 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 190.0 Intra-group receivables 0.2 0.0 17.6 4.3 186.6 Total 25.2 0.0 17.6 4.3 376.6 Other short-term intra-group liability 1.9 17.3 29.0 23.5 1 280.9 Total 1.9 17.3 29.0 23.5 1 280.9 NOTE 24 Events after the reporting period New information after the reporting period about conditions that March to 30 June 2020. The air navigation charges are not covered existed at the end of the reporting period is recognised in the by the suspension. financial statement. Events after the reporting period affecting the group's future financial position are disclosed if material. The group's earnings and financial position will be strongly influenced by this in 2020. It is unclear when we are back in an almost Covid 19 virus normal situation. The group has at the end of Q1 2020 an ongoing Norway got its first registered coronavirus infection on 26 dialogue with the shareholder about measures to strengthen February 2020. On 12 March 2020 the Norwegian government the group's equity and liquidity. In parallel with the shareholder introduced several measures to limit the virus spread among dialogue, work is being done with banks and financial institutions the population, including travel restrictions. In a meeting on 24 to ensure the short-term liquidity. March 2020, the measures were extended to 13 April 2020. The measures mean, among other things, that the Norwegian border In parallel with the follow-up of the group's short-term liquidity is closed to foreigners without a residence permit. situation cost-reducing measures are considered. Due to a reduced demand for national and international flights Fire at Stavanger Airport the airlines have reduced the route production and have initiated The parking garage at Stavanger Airport was damaged due to a layoffs. In order to help the airlines financially, the government fire on 7 January 2020. An examination of the extent of damage is suspended on 13 March 2020 Avinor's airport charges from 13 ongoing. The damage is covered by Avinor's insurance schemes. 126 AVINOR AS NOTE 25 New and future accounting standards All amounts in MNOK New and amended standards adopted by the group There are several changes that came into force for the financial year 2019 that are relevant to the group. IFRS 16 Leases were implemented on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective method where the right of use assets are set equal to the lease obligations (no restatement of comparative figures). The incremental borrowing rate used was 3.05 per cent. The table below specifies the effect of the new principle on the balance sheet: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP Operating lease liabilities at 31 december 2018 703.8 588.8 Discounted using the group's incremental borrowing rate -107.6 92.1 Present value of lease liabilities recognized at 1 January 2019 596.2 496.7 The table below specifies the effect of the new principle on the income statement: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2019 2019 Other operating expenses (decrease) -69.0 -59.0 EBITDA 69.0 59.0 Depreciation (increase) 60.9 51.4 Finance costs (increase) 17.2 14.7 Profit/(loss) before income tax -9.1 -7.1 Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are further described in note 12. An amendment to IAS 19 in 2019, means that an entity shall determine current service cost for the remainer of the annual reporting period after a plan amendment using updated actuarial assumptions (IAS 19.122A). In connection with plan changes with an accounting effect from 1 July 2019, the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the service cost have been updated. Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 as a result of the IBOR reform provide temporary relief for specific requirements related to hedge accounting in the period where there is uncertainty before the current interest reference rates are replaced with alternative approximate risk-free interest rates (RFR). The exceptions mean that for hedging purposes it can be assumed that the reference rate on which the hedged cash flows or hedging instrument is based is not changed as a result of the reform. The changes apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, with the possibility of early adoption. The group has chosen early adoption of the changes. The changes must be applied retrospectively. The changes have not had a significant impact on the group's financial statement. See note 13 for further comments on the accounting implications of the IBOR reform. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretation that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the group’s financial statement. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 127 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO We confirm, to the best of our knowledge that the financial statements for the period 1 January to 31 December 2019 have been prepared in accordance with current applicable accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the entity and the group taken as a whole. We also confirm that the Board of Directors' Report includes a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the entity and the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the entity and the group. Oslo, 31 March 2020 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 128 AVINOR AS Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Avinor AS Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Avinor AS, which comprise the financial statements for the parent company and the Group. The financial statements for the parent company and the Group comprise the balance sheets as at 31 December 2019, income statement, statements of comprehensive income, the statements of cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Emphasis of matter – Effect of Covid 19 We draw attention to note 24 of the financial statements, which describes the expected effects of Covid19 on the Group’s and company’s operations, liquidity and capital adequacy. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. Pensions At the end of the accounting year, the parent company and the Group had gross pension obligations amounting to NOK 6 047 millions and NOK 10 286 millions, respectively. The valuation of the pension obligations requires a considerable degree of judgment and technical competence, including the use of A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 129 2 an external actuary to calculate the obligations. Even small changes in the most important assumptions applied in the valuation of the Group’s pension obligations including salary growth, inflation, discount rate, mortality and withdrawals from the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special-age pension can significantly impact the calculation of the obligations. Overall, these matters are of significant importance for the financial statements and therefore constitute a key audit matter. Our audit of the parent company’s and Group’s treatment of pensions has included assessments of assumptions used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations, control procedures of input data, effects of plan changes and evaluation of external expertise used in the estimation of the obligations. We have, in particular: ► verified that assumptions related to inflation, discount interest and mortality are based on external and publicly available data from acknowledged organisations ► compared assumptions related to salary growth with the Group’s historical and expected future development ► assessed changes in assumptions for withdrawals of the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special age arrangements against historical information and expected future development ► considered the basis for increase in pension obligations related to future pensions regulations and the accounting treatment of these changes ► reviewed the data components used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations ► assessed the basis and estimates for coordinating public occupational pension and the Norwegian national social insurance scheme ► evaluated the competence and objectivity of the Group’s external actuary ► considered whether the recognition of pensions complies with the relevant framework for financial reporting (IAS 19) Note 16 to the financial statements has additional information. Environmental obligations At the end of the accounting year, the parent company and the Group had made provisions for future environmental obligations amounting to NOK 1 027.3 millions and NOK 1 029.4 millions, respectively. Provisions for environmental obligations are based on concrete assessments of each airport performed by external experts. The expected costs are uncertain and require considerable judgment by management, as they depend on actual amounts of environmentally damaging substances, demarcation of polluted areas, actual cleanup expenses and effects of the fact that requirements from the authorities can change over time. Due to high estimation uncertainty and the size of the environmental obligations, this has been a key audit matter. Our audit of the parent company’s and the Group’s accounting of the environmental obligations has included considerations of the assumptions for the calculation of the obligations, control procedures of input data in the calculations and evaluation of external expertise applied to estimate the obligations. We have read and assessed reports from the company’s external experts comprising analyses and considerations of the extent of pollution and estimated future cleanup costs. Input data applied in the valuation has been assessed by comparing with the most recent updated external report and correspondence between the company and the Norwegian Environment Agency. We have also evaluated the reasonableness of management’s input for calculating additional provisions for uncertainty in the calculations by comparing costs related to rig and overhead costs with completed historical projects. In addition, we have discussed with management and those responsible for the calculation of the environmental obligations. Note 17 and 21 to the financial statements have additional information. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 130 AVINOR AS 3 Other information Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (management) are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information obtained prior to the date of the auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control; ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern; Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 131 4 ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility concerning the financial statements, the going concern assumption and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management has fulfilled its duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. Oslo, 1 April 2020 ERNST & YOUNG AS The auditor's report is signed electronically Jan Wellum Svensen State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 133 MORE ABOUT AVINOR Interim reports and annual reports Avinor publishes reports about its operations annually and quarterly. The interim reports present key figures and the financial statements, as well as a brief report on financial conditions. Avinor’s interim reports and annual reports are available on Avinor’s website. The Section 10 plan Section 10 of Avinor’s Articles of Association states that the board of directors must prepare a report to the Ministry of Transport and Communications about the company’s overall operations, including its plans for the future. The document is publicly available and is known as the Section 10 plan. At least once per parliamentary term (usually four years) Avinor’s Section 10 plan serves as the basis for a report to the Norwegian parliament on Avinor’s operations. The last report to the Norwegian parliament about Avinor was submitted in April 2017. Avinor’s contribution to the National Transport Plan The National Transport Plan (NTP) presents the Norwegian government’s transport policy. It lays the foundation for comprehensive political assessments, the efficient use of tools, and improved interaction between the different modes of transport. Aviation infrastructure forms part of the report. The NTP is discussed by the Committee for Transport and Communications, which presents its opinion to the Norwegian parliament. The NTP for the period 2018 to 2029 was discussed in the Norwegian parliament in the spring of 2017 and can be found at www.ntp.dep.no. Photo: Anders Martinsen, Catchlight, Avinor Design and production: artbox.no Avinor owns 45 airports, including the subsidiary Svalbard Lufthavn AS and Værøy Heliport. Haugesund Airport is rented out and Fagernes Airport will be sold in 2020. This network links Norway together – and links Norway to the world. Avinor is a driving force in environmental work in aviation and a driving force to reduce the combined greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. The company has a leading role in the work on developing and delivering biofuel for aircraft and the electrification of aviation. A total of 54 million passengers travelled to, from, or via Avinor’s airports in 2019. About one half travel to and from Oslo airport. Avinor contributes to conducting the air traffic in a safe, efficient and as environmentally friendly way as possible. More than 3,000 employees are responsible for planning, developing and operating airports and air navigation services. Avinor is funded by aviation fees and commercial sales at the airports. AVINOR AS Org.nr. 985 198 292 Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo Postboks 150 2061 Gardermoen avinor.no
