UN Global compact cop 2019 TCM Group is committed to ensuring that our business is Human rights (UN SDG 5+8) conducted in all respects according to rigorous ethical, 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally professional and legal standards. We believe that social proclaimed human rights responsibility and sustainability are key elements in the 2. Make sure that TCM Group is not complicit in human continued development and success of our business. We rights abuses therefore work with social responsibility and sustainability in a number of areas: Labour (UN SDG 5+8) 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective • Our employees are one of the company’s most recognition of the right to collective bargaining important assets. We therefore strive to create a safe, 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour creative and stimulating working environment. 5. Effectively abolish child labour • We consider the earth’s unique resources as vulne6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment rable and limited, and our products should therefore and occupation originate from sustainable sources. • The environmental effect of our production and distriEnvironment (UN SDG 12+13+15) bution should be minimized. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental • The use of our products should not cause harm or dachallenges mage and environmental impact should be minimized. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility TCM Group’s business model and strategy are described 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environin section “Strategy and financial targets”. mentally friendly technologies It is our ambition to promote the UN Sustainable DevelAnti-Corruption (UN SDG 12) opment Goals through our core business operations. In 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including order to do so, we focus on the Sustainable Development extortion and bribery Goals, which are most relevant to our business. The speBesides ensuring our own compliance with the 10 UNGC cific Sustainable Development Goals which we have principles, we encourage our suppliers and business selected to focus on are: partners to conduct their businesses according to the 10 principles. This section constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact and covers the statutory statement by the Danish Financial Statements’ Act 99a and 99b. Human rights TCM Group strongly support and promote the principles regarding human rights outlined in the UNGC principles, and it is of utmost importance to us that we comply with (target 5.5) (target 8.5 and 8.8) these principles at any point in time. The primary risks we face in connection to human rights incompliance are discrimination of employees and cases where specific conditions at our suppliers do not comply with the human rights principles. TCM Group takes specific measures to ensure that no incompliance with human rights principles takes place within the company or via our suppliers. The measures are e.g. full implementation of a whistle blower system and conducting arbitrary supplier audits. Both measures will be further outlined in sections “Whistle Blower System” and “Supplier Management”. Furthermore, our Chief Executive confirms TCM Group’s ongoing commitment to being a member of the UN TCM Group can firmly state that no products sold in 2019 Global Compact and thereby conduct our business or in previous years were developed or produced using according to the 10 UN Global Compact principles(UNGC): child labor. 28 | TCM group Annual report 2019 Labour and working conditions In TCM Group, we acknowledge that our employees are one of our most important assets. We continuously strive to create a working environment characterized by a high From 2018 to 2019 the absence focus on safety and a good collegial unity. There is further a risk to work related accidents, that it could impact our ratio related to work accidents ability to attract and retain employees. decreased from 1.7‰ to 0.8‰, The physical workplace is one of our key focus areas. We have formed multiple working groups throughout the which is a very satisfactory deentire organization each with clear areas of responsibility such as introduction of new employees to safety policies velopment. and procedures, prioritizing potential risk areas, suggesting concrete solutions and influencing the safety culture on a daily basis. Furthermore, we conduct regular examinations of our workplace, by asking all employees to rate their working conditions and encourage them to give their recommendations and ideas on how we can improve Overall, the sickness related absence (excl. absence due to our working environment. sick children and maternity leave) in TCM Group was at 3.3% in 2019 versus 3.5% in 2018. A major reasoning behind this decrease is an increased focus on dialogue Reported near-miss work accidents with and support to our most vulnerable employees. 2019 2018 2017 We continue to offer light duty jobs for employees who are temporarily ill and we have a continuous dialogue # of reported near-miss work accidents in with employees who have an absence level higher than TCM Group 1,139 780 627 the standard, in order to understand the reasoning behind their absence. In our internal occupational health and safety organization we continuously try to increase As a natural part of ensuring a Safety First culture the knowledge and competence level in order to support throughout the company, we have an increasingly high our employees in the best way possible. The average focus on reporting near-miss work accidents and mitiabsence level in the industry is 3.3% according to Dansk gating the underlying root causes as a means of increasArbejdsgiverforening (2018). ing safety awareness and preventing accidents. The number of reported near-miss accidents has increased to 1,139 reported near-miss work accidents in TCM Group in Apprentices in TCM Group 2019, whereas 780 near-miss accidents were reported in 2018, indicating increased safety awareness. 2019 2018 2017 # of apprentices Sickness and absence is another one of our key focus areas, in TCM Group 17 14 12 and especially absence related to work accidents. From 2018 to 2019 the absence ratio related to work accidents decreased from 1.7‰ to 0.8‰, which is a very satisfactory development. The decrease in the absence ratio has been TCM Group is determined to support the education of our obtained through various initiatives all focused on how to next generation workforce. We do so by hiring apprencommission employees in the daily operation as quickly as tices in our production and some of our staff functions. possible after an incident, e.g. by introducing the employee From 2018 to 2019 the number of apprentices in TCM to new tasks and areas of responsibility. Health and safety Group has increased from 14 to 17. will continue to be a key focus area in 2020 in all parts of the organization. The TCM Group motto is that “one work Gender diversity accident is one too many”. Safety has top management TCM Group is determined to promote diversity and achieve attention and we will continue to launch specific initiatives a sensible gender diversity in both the Board of Directors in order to reduce the number of work accidents. and the Executive Management based on a desire to strengthen the versatility, gathering competencies and Sickdays and absence better decision-making processes within the company. It is the Board’s goal that its members should complement each other as far as age, background, nationality, gender 2019 2018 2017 etc. are concerned. We identify and assess new candidates # of sickdays caused for the Board based on these conditions, and nomination of by work accidents 83 184 128 candidates is always based on an assessment of candidates’ Absence ratio related competencies, their match with the needs of the group and to work accidents contributions to the Board’s overall effectiveness. (‰) 0.8 1.7 1.4 TCM group | 29 VALUE CHAIN Sale of TCM Group products Product Production of Transport of Production of Transport of Use of Waste and development raw materials raw materials to TCM Group finalized products TCM Group recycling production site products to end-customer products Directly controlled Directly controlled by TCM Group by TCM Group Gender diversity In terms of the Executive Management and the manage(# of underrepresented gender) ment group below, the goal is to have a management group that complement each other in all aspects. When recruiting management group members internally or 2019 2018 2017 externally, the selection is always based on the candidates’ competencies and whether they match the Board of Directors 1 of 5 1 of 5 1 of 5 requirements of TCM Group. TCM Group does not allow Mgmt. (Executive discrimination of any kind e.g. regarding age, nationality, mgmt. and Middle gender, religion, sexual orientation, disability etc. As far mgmt.) 2 of 10 2 of 12 1 of 9 as possible, we assure that the final pool of candidates is diversified. TCM Group has a target for the Board of Directors that As of 31 December 2019, the gender distribution in the both genders are represented by at least 20%. As of 31 management group is 20% women and 80% men. This is December 2019, the distribution is 20% women and 80% an improvement from 2018 in terms of gender diversity men, which means that the target is met. in the management group. 2018 emissions 2019 emissions Total Percent Total Percent [ton CO2] of total [ton CO2] of total Scope 1 (GRI 305-1) 1,360 47% Scope 1 (GRI 305-1) 1,427 45% Scope 2 (GRI 305-2) 1,523 53% Scope 2 (GRI 305-2) 1,727 55% Total 2,883 100% Total 3,154 100% In 2018, our total scope 1+2 emission was 2,883 ton CO2. In 2019, our total scope 1+2 emission has increased to This means that our emission was 3.2 ton CO2 per 1 3,154 ton CO2, mainly due to the increased activity level mDKK net revenue. in our production facilities. Our emission was 3.1 ton CO2 per 1 mDKK net revenue, whereby our emission has decreased by 0.1 ton CO2 per 1 mDKK net revenue. 2018 key figures 2019 key figures Total (ton) Unit Total (ton) Unit Emission per 1 mDKK Emission per 1 mDKK net revenue 3.2 ton CO2e/mDKK net revenue 3.1 ton CO2e/mDKK 30 | TCM group Annual report 2019 Environment and climate impact our 2020 target has already been achieved. However, we TCM Group is committed to reduce the environmental stay committed to continue reducing our electricity conimpact of our production processes. In order to do so and sumption ratio. to create transparency on the progress of our pollution reduction initiatives, we measure our CO2 emissions, by By the end of 2019, TCM Group invested in a comprehenfollowing the GRI standards 305-1 (Scope 1) and 305-2 sive upgrade of our lacquering production unit, which (Scope 2). Scope 1 implies the direct emissions of our will enable us to increase efficiency in our lacquering business activities whereas Scope 2 measures the indirect process, reduce the number of production errors and sigemissions via our electricity and heat consumption. We nificantly reduce the electricity consumption in this part are not yet measuring our other indirect emissions (Scope of the production process. In the end this will result in a 3), but are evaluating whether to start measuring Scope 3 significant reduction of our CO2 footprint. in the near future. This also means that we are not measuring the emissions related to our distribution proFrom a risk perspective it is a considerable risk if TCM cesses, as the distribution has been outsourced and is Group is not considered an environmentally responsible thereby not within scope 1 or 2. Further information company, that it could damage our brand value. about the GRI standards is available at www.globalreporting.org/standards. Electricity consumption The main sources of emission are our electricity and heat consumption, which are mainly related to our production 2019 2018 2017 facilities. In 2018, our electricity consumption was 53% Electricity of our total scope 1+2 emissions whereas our heat conconsumption (kWh) sumption was 41%. The remaining 6% was emission per kDKK revenue 13.1 12.4 12.5 related to transport activities (company cars and vehicles at our production facilities). In 2019, electricity and heat consumption was 55% and 40% respectively, whereas 5% The production process in TCM Group is mainly characof our emission was related to transport activities. terized by woodworking, gluing and painting / lacquering. Throughout our entire production process we have a TCM Group has set a target to reduce the electricity conhigh focus on reducing the amount of waste material. As sumption with 25% per kDKK revenue in 2020, from 19.2 an example, the waste wood from our cutting of chipkWh in 2011 to 14.4 kWh in 2020. In 2019, the electricity board is returned to our suppliers and re-used in their consumption was 13.1 kWh per kDKK revenue, whereby production of new chipboard. Distribution of CO 2 emissions 6% 5% 53% 55% 2018 2019 41% 40% Electricity heating (natural gas, oil, district heating) Transport (Cars, trucks) TCM group | 31 Whistle blower system In 2019, TCM Group finalized the implementation of an internal whistle blower system, which allows our employees to report any concerns or witnessed activities regarding non-compliance with our Human Rights, Labour, Environmental or Anticorruption rules and regulations. All TCM Group employees, customers, suppliers, advisors and other individuals with connection to the company are able to access the whistle blower system through an externally hosted website. The system is anonymous and all communication is encrypted, which means that TCM Group is not Approximately 95% of our purchased chipboards are proable to trace any specific whistle blower report duced using 70% waste wood from Danish industry proback to the reporting individual. Furthermore, duction, incl. TCM Group. the supplier of the whistle blower system ­complies with GDPR. In order to ensure that our handling and usage of paint and glue during the production process has as minimal No whistle blower cases were registered during 2019. an environmental impact as possible, we ensure that the application of paint and glue only takes place in appropriate and closed surroundings within our factory, and fairly during their employment. Further information we handle all waste products with care. about FSC® is available at www.ic.fsc.org. In 2010, TCM Group was FSC® certified and in 2015 our Anti-Corruption FSC® certificate was renewed until 2020. In 2017, NettoTCM Group is exposed to the risk of non-compliance line A/S also received a FSC® certification. TCM Group with anti-corruption rules and regulations, for example only produce massive wooden table tops, which are FSC® obtaining an advantage with illegal means, via our certified. The certification ensures that only sustainable employees, suppliers, franchisees and dealers. The conlogging is carried out. Furthermore, the FSC® certificate sequence could be fines and brand damage. Therefore, guarantees that vegetation and animals are protected and our policy is to comply with all applicable regulations and that the employees of the forest plantations are properly to promote an anti-corruption behaviour to all our busieducated, use proper protective equipment and are paid ness relations. 32 | TCM group Annual report 2019 The total share of TCM Group’ purchasing, covered by our Code-of-Conduct was 100% in 2019 and cover all suppliers from nonEU countries. tion in Asia implies risks in terms of social responsibility In TCM Group, no employee may receive or solicit any and supplier management, and that our stakeholders services, gifts or payments that may be considered an expect us to actively ensure that these sub-suppliers are attempt to obtain benefits for themselves or the comfulfilling regulations in terms of working conditions and pany. Violations of these rules will have disciplinary conenvironmental-friendly production. sequences for the employees involved. TCM Group’ Code-of-Conduct was developed and There has been no incidents violating the anti-corruption approved by the Board in 2011, and further improved in policy in 2019. 2016. All of our primary suppliers have signed our Code-of-Conduct. Supplier management TCM Group intends to influence suppliers via a Code-ofThe total share of TCM Group’ purchasing, covered by Conduct, which broadly covers all aspects of the princiour Code-of-Conduct was 100% in 2019 and cover all ples outlined by the UN Global Compact. suppliers from non-EU countries. TCM Group suppliers are primarily located in Europe. TCM Group will continue to monitor all suppliers in 2020 However, some of our suppliers use sub-suppliers located and conduct arbitrary audits, though with special attenin Asia. TCM Group management is aware that production on the suppliers doing business in Asia. TCM group | 33
