Responsibility Report 2019 Statement from our CEO It has been a year of tremendous change in We have also changed the way we start how the investing industry approaches their working with new investments to understand role in society. While investing responsibly their position on important topics including has long been a core part of what we do workplace diversity, climate risk and at Montagu, we are encouraged to see our cooperation through the supply chain. industry becoming increasingly unified in recognising its value with initiatives like the Our motivations, however, remain the same. UN Principles for Responsible Investment We firmly believe that doing the right thing is attracting even more signatories. consistent with creating value and that the foundations of any successful business are Nevertheless, our stakeholders’ expectations happy customers, motivated employees and have never been higher and rightly so. effective governance. We continue to support The debates around issues like the climate the UN Global Compact in the areas of crisis and plastic waste treatment have pushed Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Antienvironmental topics to the top of the daily Corruption, as well as the UN Principles news agenda. Companies and consumers for Responsible Investment. alike are looking for suppliers with values Nevertheless, our intentions and words are We firmly believe that doing the right they support, not just with products they want to buy. Most critically of all, the 18,097 not enough. In this report, which also serves as our UN Global Compact Communication on thing is consistent employees working across our portfolio are looking to their employer for guidance, stability Progress, we set out not just the good things happening in our portfolio, but also some with creating value and support as we all endure the worldwide COVID-19 outbreak. areas for improvement. Where possible we have included quantified outcome measures, To remain a leader, we have made significant strides in our responsible investing approach. in order to judge our performance as we strive to integrate further these principles into our for our investors. We have established an ESG committee to strategy and operations. We commit to sharing guide and measure our improvement on this information publicly and welcome any JASON GATENBY CEO, Montagu Private Equity LLP these topics. feedback you might have. 1 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Responsible investment statement OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE ACTION Montagu looks to invest in businesses with motivated employees who provide critical products and services that have the potential to be highly valued by their customers, respected by their regulators and welcomed by the communities in which they operate. By doing this we will build a portfolio of which we and our investors can be proud. We will build a portfolio We then work hard with each portfolio company to ensure they operate at the highest level of governance standards for the benefit of all stakeholders. Through this approach, we will of which we and our also achieve positive outcomes for investors in our funds. investors can be proud. 2 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Montagu at a glance We lead buy-outs of Northern European We invest in companies that provide products or services that would otherwise be Honesty, performing businesses “badly missed” Humility, Excellence typically with an enterprise value between by their customers our core values €200 million and €1 billion. c.€4.3 billion AUM 50+ year history 3 2 1 exits new investments reinvestment In 2019 we made 100+ people across 400+ 5 European offices transactions The majority of our investment comes from pension funds, growing their assets to support the retirement of their many pensioners Our Portfolio Pension Fund 38% Sovereign 22% Investment Fund Insurance 16% Family Offices and other 9% Endowments / Foundations 9% Fund of Funds 6% Note: breakdown of investors in Montagu V and Montagu IV Note: Portfolio correct as at 31.12.19 3 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential UN Global Compact Principles Our progress PRINCIPLES PRACTICAL ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES OUR AMBITION FOR 2020 HUMAN 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the AREA OF FOCUS: SUPPLY CHAIN Influence portfolio companies to conduct risk RIGHTS protection of internationally proclaimed human assessments of their portfolio for human rights abuses. rights; and Supply chain risk added to CORRGI diagnostic framework. Encourage more rigorous supply chain evaluation by our 2: M ake sure that they are not complicit in human companies. 43% of portfolio completed supply chain risk analysis. rights abuses. One company has committed to scrutinising suppliers further using a third party sustainability survey that includes human rights analysis. Conducted a risk review of Montagu suppliers and acted on results. LABOUR 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of AREA OF FOCUS: CHAMPIONING DIVERSITY Improve the composition of the boards of our investments association and the effective recognition of by broadening pools of long-list candidates. the right to collective bargaining; Introduced a revised diversity and inclusion policy that focuses on Continue to improve Montagu gender diversity both 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and improving the level of ethnic, gender and social diversity. overall and at board level. compulsory labour; 53% of Associate hires are female, which was achieved through 5: T he effective abolition of child labour; and broadening the talent pools. 6: T he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary AREA OF FOCUS: CARBON REDUCTION Environmental impact reduction initiatives ongoing in approach to environmental challenges; several portfolio companies, including reducing solvent use at Miraclon and scrappage at Nemera. 8: U ndertake initiatives to promote greater Montagu and portfolio carbon emissions tracked, with regular monitoring environmental responsibility; and and investigation of major contributions. Technological innovations include further monitoring solutions at DEAS, a new water-based printing process 9: E ncourage the development and diffusion of Carbon reduction programmes initiated in several portfolio companies as at Miraclon and Funeral Partners offering of more environmentally friendly technologies. well as more general environmental initiatives. environmentally-friendly funerals. ANTI10: Businesses should work against corruption in Continued to support corruption prevention policies and procedures Introduce enhanced anti-corruption policies and CORRUPTION all its forms, including extortion and bribery. in our portfolio companies. In 2019, 93% of investments had an procedures around identifying customers and suppliers anti-corruption policy, compared with 73% in 2018. representing a higher risk. Two portfolio companies identified where enhanced procedures could be employed. 4 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Our responsibility strategy and value creation approach We have designed our own comprehensive It is core to our investment philosophy and incorporated into our investment process. The three operating framework, called CORRGI, aspects of CORRGI are all driven by the tone of management, a robust governance framework which integrates our approach to risk, and measurement of outcomes from specific initiatives. potential value upside and an investment’s impact on its stakeholders. OPERATING FRAMEWORK: COR-R-GI COR R GI CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES & RISKS RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP GOVERNANCE & INITIATIVES ACTION AREA Areas where better addressing stakeholder The responsibility of Montagu and the companies Best practice processes for oversight, continuous interests will generate investment returns or we invest in to uphold the highest standards and learning and improvement. Success in these reduce investment risk treat stakeholders with respect underpins both financial returns and the needs of stakeholders • Our own risk area framework, based on over 50 • Results from engagement with stakeholders • Conversations with our investors about their ELEMENTS INFORMING years of investing experience and 5 years of our reporting needs • The UN Sustainable Development Goals (and own data on the impact of ESG risks underlying Targets) • Our experience of best governance practice • The SASB materiality map, standards and related and what achieves results from over 50 years of OUR FRAMEWORK* guidance investing • The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact • Montagu’s “Ten Key Principles of Effective Execution” *Note: While we refer to external sources for guidance, we do not claim any aspect of our CORRGI framework is aligned to or in accordance with any external standards other than the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. 5 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential CORRGI integration into the investment process Critical to investment and business success 1. ORIGINATION 2. INVESTMENT 3. PORTFOLIO 4. EXIT • B  asic risk assessment considering • S  pecific due diligence conducted • M  andatory CORRGI diagnostic • M  aximise CORRGI contribution risks inherent to the markets to identify key exposures and risks conducted as soon as possible to return on investment in which the potential portfolio post-completion as part of our Full • S  pecialist advisors engaged • F  eature CORRGI performance company operates (both Potential Plan for the business where specific CORRGI areas and highlight operational value geographic and sector) of risk are identified (e.g. • P  ortfolio company will agree a add of CORRGI in sell-side • Principal source of information Environmental) plan to remedy any identified marketing materials from public domain, and CORRGI issues and support any • Risks and opportunities from due • H  elp the company prepare for potentially initial interactions with opportunities diligence considered at Investment due diligence questions related management Committee • R  egular reporting on key CORRGI to CORRGI topics • If the downside risk from CORRGI initiatives, with tracking and • CORRGI due diligence checklist to concerns is too significant, the monitoring of progress at the be fully completed and approved by opportunity will not be pursued portfolio Board meeting Investment Committee pre-signing further 2 3 1 4 COR-R-GI 6 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Our 2019 achievements Inauguration of the ESG Committee, responsible for Montagu’s responsible investing policies and framework Adopted upgrades to responsible investing framework, focusing on materiality, opportunities and improved reporting We became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, reaffirming our commitment to sustainable business Kicked off our own sustainability action plans, Launch of refreshed Full Potential focusing on diversity, emissions, Publication Plan Diagnostic at new portfolio waste, supplier review, of our first company education and community annual public ESG Report 7 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Responsibility reporting Montagu and our portfolio Responsibility is at the heart of our own business and the way we invest. NET JOBS CREATED (EXCLUDING M&A) We are committed to reporting progress transparently and show the areas both that have improved and that will see improvement in 2020. 534 MONTAGU PORTFOLIO MONTAGU PORTFOLIO CARBON EMISSIONS HAVE A CODE OF CONDUCT 2019 93% 59,755 33 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent Tonnes of CO2 equivalent 2018 80% +13% (“tCO2e”) (Scopes 1 and 2) per €m of revenue HAVE AN ANTI-BRIBERY / CORRUPTION POLICY 2019 93% MONTAGU PRIVATE EQUITY LLP 2019 CARBON EMISSIONS 2018 73% +20% SCOPE 1 0 HAVE A CSR POLICY (direct emissions from owned or controlled sources) SCOPE 2 146 2019 57% 2019 emissions from generation of purchased energy) (indirect 46% 2018 40% +17% 2018 42% +4% SCOPE 3 438 (business travel) % OF EMPLOYEES WHO ARE WOMEN SCOPE 3 91 (other) 2019 46% TOTAL 675 2018 42% +4% ANNUAL EMPLOYEE TURNOVER MONTAGU GENDER BALANCE 2019 14.0% -1.5% 2019 2018 15.5% 2018 ASSOCIATES INVESTMENT TEAM % UNDERTAKING ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES MONTAGU 0 20 40 60 80 100 2019 87% Female Male *Note: Data for all investments in which Montagu funds own 25% or greater of equity. 8 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Investing in the future Servelec Servelec is all about creating platforms that many people need. It’s so motivating to think the Deal type: Public to Private things we’ll work on in future will Investment Year: 2018 be improving people’s lives.” Country: United Kingdom Industry Sector: Healthcare, Technology DECLAN RHODES Degree Apprentice Software Developer Servelec believes in joining up public services to graduate with a software engineering degree, the tuition schools to encourage girls to consider a career in enable the delivery of better care. The software fees for which are funded as part of the apprenticeship. software development. provider works extensively across the NHS and Not only will the apprentices finish their degree without “The future success of public services” says CEO local government to improve people’s lives with student debt, they will be highly employable. “Within a year Ian Crichton, “and in particular making the economics technology that matters. At Servelec, this is what they’ll already be junior engineers, at least two years ahead work, will rely on the active participation of patients it means to be Together for Digital Care. of a more traditional learning route and already working and citizens in their own care”. Through the Servelec on Servelec products,” says Academy Lead, Damian De This purpose is at the heart of everything Servelec Digital Academy, 12 students, who have grown up with Luca. Damian was appointed to run the Academy and other does and it has fostered a culture of unity, innovation technology from birth, now have the opportunity to be a learning and outreach initiatives delivered by Servelec. and investment in product and people. Servelec’s part of shaping that future. people know that their work is helping their customers Not only is Servelec investing in the future, the company and across health, social care, education and youth services its customers are also benefiting from “a new perspective provide better care; the pride in this is inherent in the and way of thinking” that the “committed, passionate and company’s culture. eager to learn” apprentices bring. The drive to make a meaningful difference inspired the Building on the success of the Servelec Digital Academy company to found the Servelec Digital Academy – apprentice programme, the company worked with a degree apprenticeship programme that gives customer Dundee City Council to deliver a Python course 12 apprentices the chance to gain experience and to 17 pupils in November 2019. The 3-day diploma is a earn a salary during their degree. Microsoft-accredited qualification that will help them secure higher education places on technical and computer The 3-year programme is run in conjunction with science courses. Servelec has also run workshops in Sheffield Hallam University and the apprentices will 9 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Making a commercial success out of sustainability in real estate DEAS Deal type: Management Buyout Investment Year: 2015 Country: Nordics Industry Sector: Business Servies Managing over 2,400 commercial and residential Denmark’s real estate sector is the single largest building projects and urban areas that demonstrate properties across Denmark, DEAS has a pivotal role contributor to national energy consumption and reducing an outstanding commitment to meeting sustainability in making real change in the environmental impact of this consumption is a significant focus for DEAS. objectives. Denmark’s real estate industry. The company sees Day-to-day, continual incremental improvements in energy sustainability as the most important commercial topic efficiency have been achieved from projects within their currently affecting the property management sector managed buildings such as upgrading heating systems, and has put it at the heart of their 2020 strategy. improving roof and wall insulation and installing solar power cells. Between 2015 and 2019, the company saved The starting point for DEAS’s approach to sustainability approximately 23 GWh (the annual electricity consumption is the interests of its stakeholders. With the help of a of c.10,000 households) through more than 150 energy sustainability consultant, DEAS has identified the most projects. Innovative IoT technology is used to fine-tune material factors for them using the GRI framework and UN Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”). HVAC settings in commercial properties and improve energy consumption. Sustainability is the most While many other topics (including supporting tenants’ Collaboration is key to tackling climate change, so DEAS important commercial force wellbeing) are addressed by other elements of the is a member of Green Building Council Denmark (“DKcurrently affecting the property company’s sustainability strategy, the environmental impact of DEAS-managed properties is the most GBC”), a not-for-profit that is working to improve radically management sector and is at the heart of our 2020 strategy. the sustainability of the built environment in Denmark. material. These topics are closely aligned to a number By being a member of DK-GBC, DEAS employees must of SDGs including SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and be trained as DGNB consultants, a respected certification Communities” and SDG 12 “Sustainable Consumption HENRIK DAHL JEPPESEN for sustainable real estate construction that assesses DEAS and Production”. 10 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Making a commercial success out of sustainability in real estate DEAS — Continued For example, DEAS is working closely with client To retain the label, the owners of these properties must You can read more about DEAS’s strategy in their annual PKA to help execute their climate strategy. PKA aims show that they contribute to sustainability in the property CSR report, available here: to achieve an average energy mark B for its entire sector. They must have low energy consumption and deasgroup.com/about-deas/csr property portfolio of more than 1 million m2 in 2020. chemical particulate emissions, only Nordic Eco labelled As a result, PKA has cut the average CO2 load for cleaning materials and road salt must not be put on electricity consumption and heating per m2 from its paths. DEAS also must ensure that tenants and any third properties by almost two-thirds since 2008. party firms they might use also comply with the Nordic Swan labeling requirements when performing ongoing DEAS and PKA use a shared reporting tool to monitor maintenance and renovations. These practices on the the portfolio’s overall energy consumption. By using forefront of sustainability are used to expand DEAS’s technology, DEAS and PKA can invest in improvements expertise and offer an additional commercial service at that make the most difference to energy consumption other locations. levels and work towards their carbon targets most efficiently. By combining rigorous monitoring, continuous improvement and investment in new technologies, One particular success has been working with PKA in DEAS is improving outcomes for the environment, their managing ‘The Hill’, the first residential development in customers, their 68,000 tenants and Montagu’s investors. Denmark to be awarded the ‘Nordic Swan’ Eco-label. 11 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Our commitment to change Montagu OBJECTIVE KEY 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS TARGETS Reduce Montagu’s carbon footprint Implemented ESOS suggestions for energy savings Reduce carbon emissions through individual accountability for emissions from business travel Analysed 2019 carbon usage Assess high carbon emissions within Montagu’s supply chain Increase recycling, reduce waste and Improved recycling initiatives introduced including Removal of paper cups develop awareness of ‘green’ solutions for electrical items Removal of non-segregated desk bins Implemented default double-sided printing Promote and support diversity and Recruiter shortlists more gender and ethnically diverse Calculate and monitor gender pay gap regularly inclusion within the workplace My Family Care introduced for UK employees including Promotion of paternity leave usage by senior leaders emergency care cover and advisory services around balancing work and family life Positively impact our community, Regular training on maintaining wellbeing including Continue regular wellbeing seminars its education and our employees’ building resilience wellbeing Introduction of staff volunteering days with the local community Regular team and office social events held Hosted events with South London Cares – a local charity that provides support for elderly members of the community Meet requirements of the Modern Began reviewing Montagu suppliers’ MSA policies Conduct modern slavery risk mapping over Slavery Act (“MSA”), mitigate risks Montagu’s suppliers and encourage better behaviour within Montagu’s supply chain 12 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Building your Personal Equity in Private Equity Women in Leadership Conference I left the Women in Leadership Conference empowered and even more courageous to be a woman with a voice in leadership. At Montagu, we are deeply committed to The Women in Leadership Conference was the creating long-term, sustainable value in the first event in an ambitious programme to attract, companies in which we invest. In a world develop and grow our female talent internally and where the challenges of doing business across our portfolio. We are passionate about are ever more fast-paced and complex, creating a culture where people can thrive and we recognise that people are a company’s achieve their full potential. most valuable asset. In September 2019, we brought together women from across our portfolio companies and Montagu offices at the inaugural Women in Leadership Conference in London. I feel privileged that Montagu Through a series of interactive sessions run wishes to invest time, money by external coaches including “managing your and resources in personal energy for peak performance” and “preparing for high-stakes communication”, attendees were development and the exchange given the skills and tools to manage challenging of knowledge among its situations that might arise in the future. portfolio companies. 13 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Contact Details For further information on Montagu’s responsible investing credentials please contact: MICHAEL CARRATT WIET STOKHUYZEN RICK LAWRENCE Director — Responsible Investing Director — Origination, Investors & Portfolio Director — Investor Relations Michael.Carratt@montagu.com Wiet.Stokhuyzen@montagu.com Rick.Lawrence@montagu.com +44 (0) 207 336 9993 +44 (0) 207 336 9955 +44 (0) 207 336 9955 montagu.com FRANKFURT | LONDON | LUXEMBOURG | PARIS | WARSAW 14 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential Regulatory notices and disclaimers No representation or warranty, express or implied, is given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information or opinion contained herein on the part of Montagu or any of its directors, officers, partners, members, agents or advisers or any other person and no responsibility or liability is accepted by any of them for any such information or opinions. This report and any materials distributed in connection with this report are not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would require any registration or licensing within such jurisdiction. The distribution of this report in certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law and persons into whose possession this report comes should inform themselves about, and observe any such restrictions. Except where otherwise indicated herein, the information provided herein is based on matters as they exist as of the date of preparation and not as of any future date, and will not be updated or otherwise revised to reflect information that subsequently becomes available, or circumstances existing or changes occurring after the date hereof. Montagu does not undertake to provide the recipient with access to any additional information or to correct any inaccuracies therein which may become apparent. Any questions regarding this report should be directed to Montagu Private Equity LLP at 2 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AP. Montagu Private Equity LLP is authorised and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority. The information in this report relates to activity in the year ending 31.12.19. Photographs ©BronacMcNeill.com 15 Montagu | ESG Report 2019 Strictly Private & Confidential
