HOLDIPHARMA Communication on Progress Report 2020 Content  Statement of Support …………………………………………… 3  Investing in a sustainable future ………………………………. 4  Holdipharma’s affiliated companies …………………………... 5  Holdipharma about us………………………………………….. 6  Holdipharma partners…………………………………………... 9  Holdipharma export…………………………………………….. 10  Mission and vision………………………………………………. 11  Holdipharma Tackling COVID-19…………………………….. 12  Ministry of Business Sector…………………………………….. 17  Ministry of Health and Population…………………………….. 19  Digital Transformation…………………………………………. 20  Risk Managements………………………………………………. 23  Our strategy……………………………………………………… 25  Strategic Business plan…………………………………………. 26  Restructuring and reorganization of pharmaceutical………… 27  Sustainability strategy…………………………………………... 29  Holdipharma social responsibility……………………………... 31  Sustainable development goals…………………………………. 38  United nations global compact principles……………………… 57  Human rights……………………………………………………. 58  Labor…………………………………………………………….. 62  Environment…………………………………………………….. 64  Anti-corruption………………………………………………….. 68 -2STATEMENT OF SUPPORT On behalf of Holdipharma Company, I am very pleased to confirm that Holdipharma reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in four key areas Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information publicly by using our primary channels of communication and promote transparency and good practices. Sincerely yours, Dr. Ahmed Hegazy Chairman -3HOLDIPHARMA Drug Holding Company Investing In a Sustainable Future -4Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies Holdipharma is a governmental pharmaceutical company a subsidiary from ministry of public business sector and considered as the holding company for 11 affiliated national companies, 8 of which is manufacturers for most of pharmaceutical generics, and one is for packaging materials, 2 of them are related to trade working for import and distribution. Decades of experience in manufacturing, importing, exporting, distribution & trade of pharmaceuticals, chemicals, medical appliances & equipments has enabled the company to establish a leading position in the Egyptian, African and Middle East markets. Website: www.holdipharma.com Manufacturer Companies (9) More Info More Info Alexandria Memphis More Info More Info ADCO Misr More Info More Info CID EL-Nile More Info More Info EL-Kahira EL-Nasr More Info Medical appliances and Packages Commercial Companies (2) EL-Gomhouria More Info The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Trading More Info -5Holdipharma and it's affiliated companies About US We believe that we have an obligation, as well as an opportunity, to meet health needs by advancing effective and safe medicines with affordable prices for poor people taking into account social economic development for low-income employees. Our Values and social responsibility are the basis of our success depending on the integrity, knowledge, skills, flexibility and teamwork of our employees to create an environment of mutual respect and encouragement. We believe in operating with transparency, honesty and highest degree of ethics and integrity, making sure that the company complies with all applicable pharmaceutical laws and regulations. Holdipharma is committed to meet our customers' needs and global regulatory requirements regarding the research, development, manufacturing, packaging, testing, supplying and marketing our products. -6Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies Holdipharma, through its affiliates, invest in the field of manufacturing, importing, exporting, distributing and HOLDIPHARMA trading pharmaceuticals, chemicals, veterinary products, medical supplies and equipments. Main activities Very specialized production of pharmaceutical forms (inhalers / hormones / disinfectants / anti-diabetics). Producing under licensing products for some of multinational Companies Production of more than 60 active & non active pharmaceutical ingredients, leads to save hard currency. Expertise in tenders and governmental sectors. Therapeutic groups: • Alexandria Company (Click here) • ADCO (Click here) Main Therapeutic • CID Company (Click here) • EL-Kahira Company (Click here) Groups • Memphis Company (Click here) • Misr Company (Click here) • EL-Nile Company (Click here) • EL-Nasr Company (Click here) Tablets – Capsules –Ampoules – Vial – Syrups Powder Main Dosage Forms For Oral Suspension – Inhaler Ointments , Creams , Gel Suppositories – Drops I.V Solutions. -7Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies R&D We provide almost all R & D Services like: (Formulations Bioequivalence studies Bioavailability studies Methodologies for analysis Stability studies). • Holdipharma committed to quality, safety, reliable supply of our products for patients &consumers. • Ensures the quality, efficacy, safety Quality • Regulated and licensed by Egyptian Health Authorities. & • Adopting WHO –GXP requirements. • Certified for Quality, Environmental and occupational health Compliance & safety ISO Management systems by reputable certification bodies. • We have internal auditing team to assure quality • Frequently auditing by licensors, regulators and export health authorities. • Our Duty of Vigilance: an essential approach to the Transparency sustainability of our business • Holdipharma is committed to apply for the latest global good & pharmacovegilance practices to ensure post-marketing Disclosure surveillance of our products for the safety of our patients. • An integrated risk management system. -8Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies Our Partners Producing toll and under licensing products for some of multinational Companies For decades. -9Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies Export Holdipharma currently commercial existence in more than 30 countries and plan to expand in the next coming year’s extended over Africa, Asia, and Europe. Countries which we export Asian Countries Jordon, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Palestine, Yemen, Oman, Iraq, Lebanon, Singapore, China. African Countries Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, Eretria, Benin, Mali, Namibia, Mauritius, Djibouti, Chad, Nigeria, Libya, Tunisia, South Soudan. European Countries Sweden, Korea, Turkey, Russia, Romania. 10 Mission and Vision Vision Statement Holdipharma aspires to compete for the leadership position in the Middle East and Africa region as a reputable manufacturer, distributor and marketer of quality research based pharmaceutical and medical products that will improve the quality of life of the standard majority of the public in the key growing therapeutic areas. Mission Statement Holdipharma is building a global profile by creating a synergized competitive value chain generated from the power of integration of its empowered affiliated companies leading to a swift penetration of the healthcare markets in the middle east and Africa region. Holdipharma Core Values Holdipharma ensures Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, and promotes gender equity and women empowerment with healthy and safety work environment. Holdipharma respects and support the promotion of accountable and inclusive institutions and ensure just and peaceful societies for all. Holdipharma is built on a concrete foundation of core values originating from a strong sense of commitment towards our nation, region, patients, healthcare professionals, partners, environment & employees. To our nation We are committed to contributing to its prosperity of our nation by actively attending to its major healthcare needs and running our business effectively and efficiently to the best interest of the public. To our region We are committed to playing a role model that tackles and handles with care all major health care problems and to provide all our to provide all our neighbors with their essential and lifesaving products. To our Patients We are committed to providing them with quality products that are both reliable and cost effective covering all disease areas. To our health care professionals We are committed to enriching their armamentarium with products and solutions that will guarantee an effective, safe and profitable practice. To our partners We committed to developing a win-win strategy that will ensure maximum transparency and world-class services. To our Employees We are committed to creating a healthy atmosphere that sharpens their skills polish their talents and realize their potentials. 11 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 Holdipharma Supporting SDGs 3 As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact, the health and safety for people and communities around the world. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies are fully committed for providing our customers and patients the quality medicines they need and prioritizing the manufacture of medicines that are in high demand due to the outbreak of COVID-19 We believe that we have an obligation, as well as an opportunity, to meet health needs by advancing effective and safe medicines with affordable prices for poor people taking into account social economic development for low-income Patients. Holdipharma as a leading pharmaceutical company focused on three key areas during covid -19 crisis: • Supporting governments and health systems on the ground. • Ensuring the supply of medicines to the patients that need them. • Research for treatments to help in the fight against the corona virus. 12 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 For our customers: • We are experiencing a significant increase in demand and are operating at the highest capacity possible under the circumstance to meet this demand. • We are working to avoid shortages and have made some strategic purchasing to minimize any potential longer-term impacts and to help meet any temporary increase in demand of some products. • We have been proactively managing our inventory and stock levels, transportation options and the availability of raw materials , pharmaceutical products & essential imported products . Currently, we have been able to mitigate disruption and continue to work closely with our supplier • Holdipharma &its affiliated companies increase sanitizer production to meet domestic demand. The Egyptian 'Pharmaceutical Trading Company had implemented a number of procedures including the following: • Ensuring continuous operation of all our branches and pharmacies all over Egypt even during the partial lock-down period. • Raising the in-stock level of imported essential drug products up to 6 months, such as insulin, oncology products and biologics. • Ensuring continuous supply and availability of drug products shortage that are used by the Egyptian Ministry of Health in the different treatment protocols for covid-19, such as: Plaquenil –Tamiflu-Actemra-Vitamin C and vitamin D –paracetamol –Antibiotics such Zithromax-Anticoagulants…etc • Sterilizers and antiseptics were available such as 70% alcohol and chlorine tablets in our branches and pharmacies. • Personnel protective equipment such as Gloves, face masks & Digital thermometer were available in our branches and pharmacies • 24 hours service is provided through some Pharmacies in Cairo and Alexandria to avoid any drug shortages • Eight call centers all over Egypt are serving pharmacists' needs during this critical time to help with the social distancing precautions. 13 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 Holdipharma’s affiliated companies covering most of theraputic areas &manufacturing many products used in Egyptian protocol for treatment &prevention of symptoms of covid-19 e.g anti malarial (chloroquine phosphate), anti-protozoal , anti-virals , anti-infectives ,antibiotics (eg azithromycin ),drugs respiratory system including inhaler ,drugs used for asthma &cough , pain relief, anesthetics, hypnotics sedatives ,antihistaminic ,vitamins (eg : vitamin C , vitamin D, vitamin B12 ),Minerals (eg: zinc products ) ,Anticoagulants ,hydrocortisone , intravenous infusion ,most of these pharmaceutical products are used in different Egyptian protocol& clinical research for treatment of covid -19 , also most of our affiliated companies provide alcohol 70% ,hand gel sanitizer , antiseptic solution (eg : povidineiodine ,chlorohexidine …etc) , detergent and medical applicants :gloves ,masks , digital thermometer . Manufacturer Companies (9) Products Products Alexandria Memphis Products Products ADCO Misr Products Products CID EL-Nile Products Products EL-Kahira EL-Nasr Products Medical appliances and Packages Commercial Companies (2) Products EL-Gomhouria Products The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Trading 14 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 For our employees: Holdipharma and its affiliated companies are committed to ensure safety and security for employees, Employee’s safety &protection is an absolute priority. Health and safety policies are developed, consistently applied, enforced and updated to protect employees from epidemic disease covid -19. We are regularly and proactively communicating with all employees the precautions and advice provided by the World Health Organization (WHO) and local health authorities to protect themselves against COVID-19 including personal hygiene, isolation and social distancing measures. We are encouraging employees to work remotely to reduce the number of people at our sites, ultimately minimizing contact for those employees who will continue to work onsite. For those in our manufacturing facilities, we have increased sanitization and deep cleaning, and have changed work practices to maximize social distancing. • We Reduce the attendance rate of our employees • Paid leave has been implemented for all employees with chronic diseases. • A paid leave has been implemented for all special need and Handicapped employees. • Avoid working using finger print for all employees and instead using face detection only If possible and placing instructions for Sign in and out. • Distribution of (sanitizer) Gel for all employees in the company in addition to medical masks and necessary gloves. • Distribution of a bottle of ethyl alcohol 70% for each employee for personal protection. • Regular instruction given to employee to follow up with personal Protection using alcohol 70%, gel on regular basis. • Digital thermometer was distributed on the gates of companies to inspect our employees before entering the company as well as visitors. 15 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 Holdipharma Supporting SDGs 4 & 9 Deepening local manufacturing-increasing local production and enhancing technology transfer with special emphasis on feeding industries to promote the development of innovative products and processes. Research & Development for registering some products for treatment & help in the fight against the corona virus. Cooperation between universities and the pharmaceutical industry, for strengthen healthcare systems. Holdipharma joined with Egypt Knowledge and Technology alliances to bridge the gap between research done in academia and its translation into marketable products Collaboration between Holdipharma and its affiliated companies (EL-Nasr), GUC University & Academy of scientific research and technology (Industrial Pharma Alliance IPA) for innovation of green process for synthesis of a raw material used in global clinical researches trials for treatment of covid-19. Cooperation between universities (Cairo University) and one of affiliated companies (Memphis), for production of innovative local non alcoholic gel sanitizer. Placement of posters on the walls some video for awareness of virus Covid-19 on face book to explain in details the measures necessary for protection & treatment from the virus Covid-19, sterilization & cleaning for safety & security. Holdipharma Supporting SDGs 5 A paid leave has been implemented during this crisis for all mother workers with children under 12 years old, pregnant women, chronic disease and for all special need and Handicapped employees. 16 Ministry of Business Sector Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 The Ministry of Business Sector forms a committee to manage the Corona crisis and takes new decisions The Ministry of Public Business Sector has set up an operations room to monitor and manage the Corona virus crisis and to develop strategies and procedures to address the risk of infection and prevention of holding companies and their subsidiaries. Sterilization of factories of the public business sector The Ministry of Public Business Sector added that this comes within the framework of implementing many precautionary and preventive measures to confront the virus. The ministry continued that this comes in light of the steps taken by the state to confront the virus and activate Prime Minister Decision No. 719 of 2020, and in the framework of Hisham Tawfiq’s minister of public business sector for companies to take the necessary measures to prevent the virus and deal with any possible repercussions of this epidemic. • Providing video conferencing technology The procedures included the provision of video conferencing technology to the ministry and all companies in its meetings, • Leaves for workers and precautionary measures The ministry said that workers who suffer from chronic diseases (heart, pressure, sugar, kidneys, liver, tumors), as well as a pregnant employee who is caring for a child or more than 12 years old, were granted exceptional leave throughout the period of validity of this decision, as well as granting the employee returning from Abroad leave 15 days from the date of his return to the country, and the ban on traveling abroad on work assignments or attending training or workshops, and suspending all training programs for the duration of the validity of the aforementioned decision. 17 • Sterilization works Periodic sterilization of all administrative buildings and work sites. Conducting comprehensive awareness of all sites through screens or posters, providing the necessary disinfectants and sterilization tools, and providing heat detectors for workers and visitors to companies, according to the instructions of the Ministry of Health and Population. The Ministry of Public Business Sector stated that the number of workers in the production units and administrative offices has been reduced, the work of the fingerprint system is suspended, the prevention of unnecessary gatherings, and the suspension of all sports and social activities, as well as the implementation of these measures in commercial branches and company exhibitions that deal directly with the public and the means of transporting workers. Holdipharma’s affiliated companies have raised their production of sanitizers to four tones to meet increased demand in the domestic market fuelled by the corona virus The four Egyptian stateowned companies are Nile For Pharmaceuticals and Chemical Industries, El-Arabeya Co. For Pharmaceutical & Chemical Industries, Nasr Company for Pharmaceutical Industries, Memphis Pharma and Chemical Industries development (CID) The companies have increased the production of 110-200 ml canisters of ethyl alcohol to 75,000 and 1 liter canisters to 20,000 a day. The production increase is also meant to counter the rising price of sanitizers in the domestic market, according the statement. The Ministry continues to periodically monitor the implementation of all precautionary measures and measures in affiliated companies to confront and prevent corona virus, in order to ensure the safety of all. 18 Ministry of Health and Population Holdipharma & its affiliated companies tackling COVID-19 The Ministry of Health and Population Egypt, represented by the Ministry of Health, has taken a series measures to ensure that the disease does not leak from abroad, especially the endemic countries to protect the country from epidemic out breaks the Ministry of Health and Population in Egypt, in cooperation with the World Health Organization, continues to raise its preparations in all ports of the country (air, land, and marine), follow the situation first-hand regarding the emerging Corona virus, and take all necessary preventive measures against any viruses or infectious diseases. • The 105 hotline has also been designated to receive citizen inquiries regarding the emerging Kovid-19 Corona virus and infectious diseases. • the Ministry of Health and Population announced the Ministry's cooperation with the social networking site Face book through an initiative to spread awareness about the new Corona Virus (Covid-19), among Egyptian citizens and non-Egyptians inside Egypt • within the plan and efforts of the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population to spread health awareness of preventive measures and fight rumors to counter the Corona virus, the ministry will, in cooperation with the World Health Organization, provide Face book with educational content and Face book will in turn deliver it to the largest number of Egyptians and non Egyptians inside Egypt. • The aim of the initiative is to fight rumors and eliminate the circulation of inaccurate health information that is alarming among citizens, pointing out that under the cooperation the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population, in cooperation with the World Health Organization, becomes the only source of correct information about the virus in Egypt. • The website care.gov.eg is an accurate source for the results of users' search on Face book about the Corona virus, and the site will in turn update the content periodically to ensure that the updated and correct information reaches the public. 19 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies Digital Transformation The Ministry of business Sector Announced the completion of the Middle East and North Africa’s largest information technology tender for the digital transformation of the ministry’s subsidiaries. Microsoft won the tender to manage the resources of 60 subsidiaries and holding companies, including enterprise resource planning (ERP) in six main areas: finance, human resources, sales, purchasing, warehousing, and production. A global tender was launched in August to select ERP technology and service integrators to implement the project. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies • Digital technology will drive the most value in the pharmaceutical industry, and they should guide companies as they build a strategy for digital success. • Pharmaceutical companies can use digitalization to meet the expected increased demands from markets • digitalization can help them meet regulations, find manufacturing efficiencies • ERP System: ERP, or enterprise resource planning, is modular software designed to integrate the main functions of an organization's business processes into a unified system. • Microsoft to carry out digital transformation of 60 public enterprises • The project aims to standardize, improve, and automate the work systems of companies and raise production efficiency. 20 • Track & trace system: Holdipharma s affiliated companies aligning to the guideline of Egyptian Pharmaceutical Track & Trace System (EPTTS) & joining with EPTTS pilot project. Read More… Holdipharma s affiliated companies collaborating with trading partners to create more efficient, safer and sustainable value chains with GS1 global standards. Track & trace system can help create counterfeit-proof medications with serial numbers that are tractable across the supply chain, ensuring quality while meeting upcoming serialization requirements, Serialization means the assignment of a unique serial number to each saleable unit. Relevant information about the origin, batch number and expiration date of the product are linked and retrievable through the entire supply chain from production to retail distribution to the final dispensation to the patient. Fake medicines which contain the wrong active ingredients or none at all can have fatal consequences for patients. For pharmaceutical manufacturers, counterfeits result in severe damage to their reputation and in high expenses. • Providing video conferencing technology Holdipharma start providing video conference system & reducing the attendance rate of employees for tackling covid-19 DESIGNED TO OFFER HIGH QUALITY COLLABORATION AND CONFERENCING EQUIPMENT, SYSTEM CAN BRING TEAMS TOGETHER WHETHER WORKING IN THE SAME LOCATION OR, INCREASINGLY, REMOTELY 21 • CTD & eCTD software system : Holdipharma & affiliated companies are going to purchase an eCTD software system To fulfill the guideline for global registration. • Pharmacovigilance software system: Holdipharma &its affiliated companies developed a wide range of practices and tools for patient safety also on going to purchase an integrated Pharmacovigilance electronic soft ware system to support the identification and management of medical risks, and a transparent communication with all involved stakeholders. 22 Holdipharma & its affiliated companies risk managements A proactive and structured Risk Management approach An integrated risk management Holdipharma continuously fosters risk management to identify and address potential threats and opportunities that may impact our commitment to:  Protect employees, patients and local communities.  Create value while delivering trust and transparency for all stakeholders. Risk management system Holdipharma risk management activity consists of three pillars Identify and assess actual risks Steps are taken to identify and assess risks that may impact the Company’s ability to execute our strategy. Risks are assessed according to their severity for our patients, reputation and business, their likelihood and their level of control. This practice is carried out for risks transversal to The Company as well as risks specific to business units and functions. For example, risks related to quality and safety of products are assessed on a regular basis as their control is critical to protecting health and to meeting, the expectations of patients and customers. Anticipate emerging risks Holdipharma faces the challenges of a fast-changing environment, increasingly volatile economic conditions and the rise of new technologies transforming and potentially disrupting the Pharma business model. In this context, Holdipharma has developed specific approach to identify and assess risks a rising from long-term trends. For example, digital transformation will change significantly the relationships between Holdipharma and our stakeholders. Adapt to risks For every risk identified, response plans are established by operational leaders, aimed at reducing risks to an acceptable level. According to the nature of the risk, response plans May consist of preventive actions to decrease the risk’s likelihood, or corrective actions to address potential consequences. In order to anticipate and prepare risk remediation, scenarios are used to raise management awareness Of the way risks may become reality. For the most significant risks, effective implementation of response plans is regularly reviewed. 23 Our main risks and Mitigation RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION RISKS RELATED Employee’s safety & protection is an absolute priority. Health and safety policies are developed, consistently applied, The Prime Minister & Minister of health decision for tackling covid -19. Read More… TO EMPLOYEE‘S enforced and updated to protect employees from epidemic disease Minister of business sector decisions for tackling covid -19. Read More… covid-19. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies align to the decision of the Prime HEALTH & SATETY Holdipharma and affiliated companies are committed to ensure safety &security for employees Minister, and Minister of business sector for safety & protection for our (COVID-19) employee. Read More… Quality issues might have a dramatic impact on patient health and Continuous quality monitoring and internal audits are carried out to company reputation. detect and remedy weaknesses as early as possible and circulate best To ensure quality, Holdipharma fulfill regulatory requirements. practices throughout the Company. RISKS RELATED Apply consistent standards to ensure quality of all our products Inspection from Egyptian drug authorities, & External audits from TO PRODUCT and services throughout their lifecycle, from discovery to external experts with Holdipharma technical committee for GMP QUALITY development ,manufacturing and distribution, assessment for all companies (GAP analysis). Workshop for strategic business development plan for Holdipharma & its affiliated companies. Read More… Migration of talent & expert technical personnel due to private HR committee for reorganization & restructuring for empowering, sector for increasing their salary motivation and promotion the young talent personnel & women. RISKS RELATED Covid-19 HR Policy TO HR Culture change and awareness for covid-19. Empowering talent women & young people and involving them in the board of the company. Patient protection is an absolute priority. Holdipharma is Holdipharma has a system to prevent & mitigate this risk Read More… RISKS RELATED committed to delivering safe products, to provide services to A Pharmacovigilance department to monitor drug safety signals.Read More… TO PATIENT patients in compliance with applicable regulations and ethical A governance body dedicated to risk/benefit assessment and continuous PROTECTION principles and to ensure the protection, privacy, security, ethical safety monitoring. and compliant use of data from patients. Holdipharma ensure that our suppliers comply with Good A Code of Conduct was developed to require suppliers’ respect for RISKS RELATED manufacturing practice (GMP) & raw material with master file. Holdipharma’s values &standards TO RESPONSIBLE In order to secure sourcing, ensuring Quality to protect our image PROCUREMENT and reputation To fulfill the requirements of new guidelines of CTD Law by the pharmaceutical sector has finally been issued by Law No. & e CTD 151 for the year 2019. The new Law establishing the Egyptian Drug Authority (“EDA”) and the Unified Medical Procurement Authority (“UMPA”) Read More… Contributing to environmental protection is of significant In order to minimize our environmental footprint, Holdipharma importance for Holdipharma. implemented and continuously up grades a comprehensive Health and RISKS RELATED The Company is committed to closely managing and reducing our Safety Environmental system. TO environmental footprint (e.g., carbon emissions), ensuring that Most of our affiliated companies fulfill ISO140001 requirement ENVIRONMENTAL products and waste are appropriately managed by internal teams Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined a training course and PROTECTION and third parties, anticipating potential business discontinuity due workshop organized by the Environmental compliance office and to less available resources and adapting solutions to respond to the sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for effects of climate change on public health. increasing awareness of green economy (green technology , green process). Holdipharma Security risk management system to reduce the risk Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined a training course and to critical infrastructure by physical means or defense cyber workshop organized by the Environmental compliance office and RISKS measures to intrusions, attacks, or the effects of natural or sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for security manmade disasters risk management & tools to increase the awareness of security. RELATED TO Threats and risks may be Holdipharma establish Security Management System: SECURITY from outside inwards (intentional). By set of policies, processes and procedures to fulfill the security Internal, External and Collusion (combination) origins. proactive, mitigation & corrective action. Crime and Terrorism. The best way to gain and preserve stakeholders trust is to Holdipharma’s Code of conduct(English) , Code of conduct(Arabic) RISKS demonstrate ethics and integrity in day-to-day business practices. (The “Code”) sets out the six overarching values & standards that we RELATED Business ethics and employee integrity are crucial to safe guard the believe are central to maintaining the integrity of our business. Whoever TO Company’s image and reputation and protect Holdipharma’s we deal with and wherever we operate, we are committed to doing so BUSINESS employees. ethically and in compliance with all local, national, and international laws ETHICS Holdipharma `must comply with applicable laws and regulations and regulations. with pharmaceutical industry codes and with the Company’s This Code is supported by policies and procedures. AND ethical principles, values and policies. EMPLOYEE In order to achieve this, Holdipharma disseminates robust and INTEGRITY pervasive ethical culture at all organizational levels. 24 Our Strategy Our strategic plan for growth strengthens our leadership in Egypt, Middle East & Africa depending on four main mile stones: A clear vision that will enable us to predict and carefully prepare for the fast changing market dynamics. A precise mission that will direct our efforts towards achieving our fundamental goals. A value chain that will install concrete landmarks on our road map. A set of core of values that genuinely reflects our keen sense of commitment towards our nation, region, patients, healthcare professionals, partners & employees. We have established our strategy for growth through clear Pillars: • People: Building capacity by developing a highly skilled employees and effective work force attracting, keeping and developing talented youth and women through continuous training, education and changing working culture to support our future growth plans. • Process: Maintaining high quality manufacturing facilities, efficient operation and focusing on Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) and adapting our process with the global pharmaceutical guide lines. Investment in new technology & renovation of equipment, machines appliances and building new factories. Improving productivity, logistics and supply chain management. • Portfolio: Optimizing portfolio opportunities. The continuous introduction of new products in growing therapeutic areas is critical to the growth and profitability of all of our business. • Partners: Developing successful partnerships is a key to access new products and new technologies that will enhance and expand our business. We are committed to develop our existing relationships and fostering new ones. • Profit: Maximizing return to shareowners while being mindful of our overall responsibilities. Maintaining our commitment as a key role in corporate social responsibility in Egypt. • Planet: We commit to respect, protect and preserve our planet's natural resources and climate for future generations. • Prosperity: Ensures prosperous and fulfilling lives in harmony with nature. • Peace: Fosters peaceful, just and inclusive societies. 25 Strategic Business Plan Holdipharma’s Strategic Business Plan for growth and establishing a leading position in Africa & Middle East markets for the coming three years has been reviewed during two days workshop: The main pillar • Building New Facility for raw materials in cooperation with Multinational Pharmaceutical Companies. • Renovate the existing facilities to meet GXP requirements. • Enter into new business partnerships to manufacture new products especially biological products. • Establish strategic marketing plan (central marketing sector) & registration of new products. • Financial and administrative restructuring and organizational change. • Re adjustment of costs & pricing system for economic growth. • HR development and ensuring dynamic transparent & effective governance. • IT, Digital Transformation and establishment of ERP System. • Implementing Track & Trace Solutions Systems and Software to ensure traceability identify fake products and secure the supply products, and data matrix codes for serialization and Aggregation. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies promote the development of the ICT infrastructure and digital services as one of the key priorities of the ministry of business sector to raise the quality and efficiency of the services. 26 Restructuring and reorganization of pharmaceutical sector in Egypt Pharmaceutical UMPA sector EDA The long-awaited law by the pharmaceutical sector has finally been issued by Law No. 151 for the year 2019 (the “Law”) and was published in the Official Gazette on the 25th of August 2019. The new Law establishing the Egyptian Drug Authority (“EDA”) and the Unified Medical Procurement Authority (“UMPA”) The EGYPTIAN DRUG AUTHORITY (EDA) The EDA is established as a public service entity and reports directly to the Prime Minister. The EDA undertakes all organizational, executive and supervisory roles with regard to pharmaceutical products and medical equipment. The EDA, therefore, replaces the Ministry of Health in all pharmaceutical related mandates. It also replaces the National organization for Drug Control and Research (the “NODCAR”) and the National Organization for Research and Control of Biologicals (the “NORCB”). In accordance with the Law, the EDA is the only entity in charge of drug control, registration, trade and supervision. The EDA is responsible for issuing operational licenses to pharmaceutical industrial establishments. The EDA will also monitor the importation, exportation, distribution and storage of medical products and equipment, including any negative effects that result from the trade of said products. The EDA shall establish grievances’ committees before which the EDA’s administrative decisions may be challenged. The Law sets forth the constitution of such committees. EDA’s employees designated by a decision of the Minister of Justice shall have investigative rights with regard to drugs’ and medical equipment’s manufacturing and storage facilities and the right to access all relevant documents and information. Egyptian Drugs information center (EDIC) . The EDA’s board of directors The EDA’s Board is mandated, inter alia, to ratify Egyptian pharmaceutical standards and regulating the registration and pricing of drugs and medical equipment. The board is responsible for issuing the Egyptian Pharmacopoeia. Further, it determines the EDA’s governmental fees for its services in accordance within the thresholds outlined in the Law. 27 The Unified Medical Procurement Authority (UMPA) The UMPA is subject to the control of the Prime Minister. The chairman of the UMPA’s board of directors is appointed at the level of minister. The responsibilities of the UMPA The Law outlines the mandate of the UMPA, which includes: Purchasing of pharmaceuticals and medical products and equipment for the relevant public sector entities. As for the private sector and multinational organizations, they can request procurements to satisfy their needs; such requests are subject to the approval of the UMPA’s board of directors. Preparing plans, programs, and rules for unified procurement from local or international sources. In addition, the UMPA prepares an annual budget for such procurement. Managing a system for the storage, transportation, and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical products and equipment. It also monitors warehouses of governmental entities and manages a system for the maintenance of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment post-purchase. Managing medical technology and establishing a comprehensive database for medical technology in all public health institutions and their warehouses in order to monitor needs, consumption, maintenance and training. It will also assess medical technology to ensure that it is up to date and lay out a system for electronic registration of local and international companies that operate in the field of medical products and services. Establishing joint stock companies on its own or with others as well as joining existing companies. Governmental agencies are prohibited from purchasing pharmaceuticals or medical products and equipment directly and not through the UMPA, except in cases of urgency and following specific requirements. The UMPA is prohibited from borrowing funds for its purchases without obtaining the prior approval of the Cabinet. All government procurement of medical products, devices and supplies will be against a fee not exceeding 7% of the net value of purchased products excluding customs, VAT and other costs. The Law’s executive regulations will determine the method of calculating this fee and cases subject to full or partial exemption from its payment. 28 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The dimensions of the sustainable development strategy comprise three dimensions including the economic dimension which highlights economic development, transparency and efficiency of energy and knowledge. The social dimension highlights education and training, health, culture and social justice; while the environmental dimension focuses on environment. Holdipharma is committed to respect the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and to take action to support of UN Goals in the four areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption and to take action to advance 17 sustainable development goals. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainability Development goals. Human rights are important elements of our company’s commitment to conduct our business in a responsible manner. We maintain labor standards, including hours, conditions, wages and overtime pay practices that are in compliance with the laws under which we operate. 29 Implementation: • After confirming the support of Holdipharma to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, a call from Holdipharma's chairman to the CEO of all the affiliated companies to align our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, to take actions that advance 17 SDGs goals. • Nomination of the Holdipharma’s focal point and coordinator for each affiliated company to follow up the progress in each area for the UN Global compact principles. • A committee was held from all the focal points of the affiliated companies for discussing action plan and training program: To raise the awareness of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and the 17 SDGs. To conduct a Self-assessment questionnaire to the four areas (Risk assessment). To develop training needs assessment guided by the SDG Compass which explains how the SDGs affect business – offering the tools and knowledge to put sustainability at the heart of strategy. To develop a measurable goal and an action plan for follow up in each Principle. To Review all the systems in the company and publishing internal policies, and Code of Business Ethics that address all of our partners, suppliers and employees. • The training is aimed at business managers, and key functions such as Supply Chain Management, Human Resources, Legal and Integrity, Communications and Sustainability. • Nomination of a responsible person for each area (sub-committee). • Regular meetings are held continuously with the committee and the minutes are raised to the CEO s of the affiliated companies for follow up and take actions for progress. 30 Holdipharma Social Responsibility Our corporate responsibility's approach is oriented & compatible with our mission & our principles, that drives us to demonstrate this responsibility towards good health practices, ethical and transparent business practices, sustained commitment to good environmental practices, employees health and safety practices and building a mutual addedvalue with confidence towards our shareholders and our suppliers, our code of ethics is our direct way to confirm on sustainability of our business. Our Duty of Vigilance: An essential approach to the sustainability of our business As a health partner Holdipharma& its affiliated companies, protecting and taking into account the needs of patients requires a strong approach of vigilance, identifying and managing risks for patients. Beyond the protection of patients, our vigilance approach Encompasses employee, local communities and the environment, and responds to the requirements of Egyptian drug authorities Our vigilance approach • Ensure that patients are safe PATIENTS • Protect patients’ personal data • Establish an integrated Pharmacovigilance system in all affiliated companies • to comply with guideline of Egyptian Pharmacovigilance center • Safe guard the fundamental rights of employees EMPLOYEES • Provide the best workplace health and safety conditions • Protect employees’ persona l data Environment • Minimize environmental impacts and control the use of & resources Local Communities 31 Holdipharma Social Responsibility We recognize that we can’t solve major health, environmental and economic challenges alone, so we collaborate with others who share our commitment. We recognize that the climate change can significantly impact global health and cause long-term risks to our business. The world’s resources are limited, and over the next few decades, the demand for energy, clean water and natural resources will increase substantially due to population growth and economic development. We understand that business has a responsibility to use resources wisely and drive innovations that will enable global development while protecting and preserving the planet. Social Responsibility Our Customers Our Employees Shareholders Suppliers Environment Our company aspires to be open and transparent about how we operate, in order to earn and retain the trust and confidence of our customers, employees, shareholders and other important stakeholders. Our reporting and governance structure is an integral part of this commitment. We believe we have an important role and responsibility in improving access to medicine and quality health care worldwide, helping to reduce the burden of disease in the parts of the world that need it most. In everything we do—from the manufacturing to the distribution of our medicine, and other products— safety, quality and efficacy are our primary considerations. Holdipharma Donates medications to the Egyptian medical convoys, Egyptian poor Villages, participating in awareness conferences for Peace ( No terrorism & No Violence )and lot of workshops, conferences & researches for empowering women and project programs for helping Syrian refugees. 32 Holdipharma Social Responsibility Our Customers: Holdipharma as a leader in the Egyptian pharmaceutical industry is strictly committed to apply for the highest standards of quality and good manufacturing practices, in order to supply safe and effective drug with an affordable price as part of its social responsibility for the sake of our patients. Holdipharma is committed to apply the latest international standards in the pharmaceutical industry concerned with research and development, manufacturing, packaging, quality control testing, transportation and marketing to ensure confirming to the latest approved quality specifications of our products up to the global standards starting from day 1 in the market until the end of their shelf lives to meet our customers' expectations. Holdipharma is committed to apply for the latest global good pharmacovegilance practices to ensure post-marketing surveillance of our products for the safety of our patients. Link (our customers covid-19) 33 We have a professional Pharmacovigilance (PV) system in place which closely monitors all the suspected side effects, or adverse events, which have been reported in conjunction with our medicines, initiating all the necessary steps to address and remediate situations which may pose a health risk to the people taking our medicines & Doing everything in our power to safeguard patient safety, along the entire lifecycle of a medicine. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies aligning with the requirement & guideline of The Egyptian Pharmaceutical Vigilance Center to ensure a strong and mature Pharmacovigilance system for the management and reporting of adverse events & to fulfill the requirement of Egyptian Drug Authorities. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies developed a wide range of practices and tools for patient safety also are going to purchase an integrated Pharmacovigilance electronic software system to support the identification and management of medical risks, and a transparent communication with all involved stakeholders. Safety Database: A safety database allows the pharmacovigilance department to monitor, assess, and report to the regulatory authority’s serious safety information. 34 Our Employees: Our first priority in Holdipharma is to invest in our people, by applying continuous training programs suitable for their career development to support them technically. This priority is considered one of the standards added to our success which is based on the integration of skills, exchanging of experience &knowledge, flexibility in coaching and teamwork, to create a healthy and balanced ethical environment that encourage them and keep the mutual respect towards each other’s that helps us to ensure the long term sustainability of our business. The Occupational Health and Safety issue is one of our primary goals to ensure the health and safety of our employees Holdipharma ensures human rights, gender equity and woman empowerment with healthy and safe work environment, supporting equal opportunities for both men and women in recruitment, training, promotion and carrier development. Holdipharma training Centers are committed to provide our employees with specialized professional training programs designed with latest technical guidelines, knowledge and expertise that inspire and motivate employees to achieve goals to be able to face continuous Global challenges of the pharmaceutical industry development by raising awareness and building capacity for all the employees. Link (Read More...) 35 Shareholders: Holdipharma is confidently aware of its ability to achieve its objectives depending on the strength of its financial system; the good financial performance has encouraged green investment by providing real and accurate information about our products and services supported by scientific evidence and by appropriate means to our shareholders in goodtiming. Suppliers: Holdipharma believes in working with great transparency and credibility, and to make sure that the company obeys the national pharmaceutical laws and follows the ministerial Decrees in good manufacturing practices including the choice of the best global certified suppliers. Holdipharma seeks for mutual beneficial relationships with qualified suppliers by considering them our partners in success. The supply chain process at Holdipharma integrates environmental and social elements guided by the framework of the Holdipharma policy. Holdipharma chooses ethical suppliers that uphold ethical practices abide by international labour laws and international environmental legislations and works with suppliers and contractors to bring their health, safety, environmental and energy management standards into alignment. Read More… 36 Environment: We are committed to understand and manage the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycles—from discovery through manufacturing, use and disposal. Protecting our people, our communities and the environment is fundamentally important to the way our company operates. Holdipharma and affiliated companies keep working to reduce the impact with the highest efficiency and minimal cost. This is done by continuous education and training of our employees on how to treat industrial wastes in a safe practices, analyzing carbon emissions, monitoring the resources and rational use of energy and water consumption following the good environmental practices through: 1Reduce our impact on climate change & ozone layer. 2Compliance with legislation and local environmental safety systems. 3Implementation of ISO 14001 requirements or its equivalent in all production sites of the company. Our Environmental Sustainability Strategy focuses on three main areas: Efficient Operations Reducing our environmental impacts through energy efficiency and water-use-reduction initiatives, as well as efficiently using raw materials and handling our waste. For Environment • Innovating to reduce the environmental impacts of our new products and packaging through the use of green chemistry, life cycle assessments, and other sustainable design principles. Reduce Risks in Value Chain • Understanding the environmental impacts and risks of our operations, and working to minimize those impacts, collaboration with our suppliers and customers to address our shared needs and interests in more efficient and environmentally beneficial ways. • Building capacity through training is critical to build worldwide employee competencies that will improve compliance, reduce risks and drive continuous improvement. Website: FEI.ORG 37 HOLDIPHARMA Drug Holding Company Investing In a Sustainable Future 38 Holdipharma aligning with the United Nations (17) Sustainable Development Goals Our targets linked with Sustainable Development Goals The table below illustrates Holdipharma contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. It shows the alignment to selected SDGs. We focus on the highest needs and where we can have the greatest impact. This approach is aligned with the SDGs, in particular SDG3:“Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all ages. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies believe that we have an obligation, as well as an opportunity, to meet health needs by advancing effective and safe medicines with affordable prices covering most therapeutic areas taking into account social economic development for low-income people. (Supporting SDG3) Holdipharma’s training Centers are committed to play a role in the global efforts to achieve the SDGs through our ongoing building capacity and raising the awareness of the UN Global compact 10 principles, 17 sustainable goals. (Supporting SDG 4) Holdipharma and its affiliated companies promote gender equality, provides equal opportunities for both men and women in recruitment, training, career development and providing a safe work environment. Ensure women’s effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making in political, economic and (Supporting SDG 5) public life. 39 Holdipharma and its affiliated companies Identify water risks and opportunities in regions of operation and implementing actions to optimize water consumption reduce wastewater discharge and increase water recycling and re-use opportunities. (Supporting SDG 6) Holdipharma and its affiliated companies Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and clean energy. -Addressing climate change risks and opportunities, reducing Gases emissions and focusing on energy efficiency and renewable energy. (Supporting SDG 7) Holdipharma and its affiliated companies are committed to provide employment and to promote a diverse and inclusive working environment and improving economic growth. Holdipharma strives to increase the living standards of its community members, protect labor rights and promote safe and (Supporting SDG8) secure working environments of all workers. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies focusing efforts on patient care, research and development, and business skills, aiming to improve health outcomes. Cooperation between universities and the pharmaceutical industry, to strengthen healthcare systems, to develop medicine and products that (Supporting SDG 9) can generate positive real-world outcomes for patient. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies policies enhance reducing waste, its disposition appropriately and optimizing opportunities for waste recovery, recycling and re-use. (Supporting SDG 12) 40 Holdipharma and its affiliated companies combat the impact of climate change by reaching carbon neutrality in our operations, improving our energy and emissions efficiencies, generating and purchasing renewable energy. (Supporting SDG 13) Holdipharma and its affiliated companies is Promoting good governance supporting policies and processes regarding corporate governance and business ethics. Ensuring the elimination of corruption to build sustainable, inclusive and transparent societies. (Supporting SDG 16) Participating in awareness conferences and workshops (business for Peace, no terrorism and no violence). Holdipharma and its affiliated companies seek effective partnerships to deliver treatments and quality care to as many people as possible. It also provides partnership with governments, public, private sector, nongovernmental organizations, local communities, United Nation Organizations, research and academic institute to enhance the global partnership for sustainable (Supporting SDG 17) development. 41 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 3 42 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 4 17 Holdipharma Training and H.R Development centers Holdipharma training Centers are committed to provide our employees with specialized professional training programs designed with latest technical guidelines, knowledge and expertise that inspire and motivate employees to achieve goals to be able to face continuous Global challenges of the pharmaceutical industry development by raising awareness and building capacity for all the employees. Cooperation between universities and research centers and Holdipharma’s affiliated companies for advancing the pharmaceutical industry e.g. (formulation, manufacturing, stability, bioavailability …etc), for strengthen healthcare systems. Holdipharma offers all pharmacy students the opportunity to realize their full potential, set their priorities and directions and develop their personality through summer training courses in different affiliated companies. Collaboration between Holdipharma and Nile University (amendment of agreement) for research and development and training with support of Academy of scientific research and technology. We are honored to play a role in the global efforts to achieve the SDGs through our ongoing building capacity and raising the awareness of the UN Global compact 10 principles, 17 sustainable goals and the Initiatives that Holdipharma committed. (7Principles for women empowerment & Pearl Initiative …). Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined a training course and workshop organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for security risk management & tools to increase the awareness of security December 2019. 43 Dr. Ahmed Hegazy chairman of Holdipharma won the Egyptian pharmaceutical society’s award 2020. 44 Global Compact Network Egypt A (C Suit) Session to discuss the UNGC Principles and the SDGs 2030 engagement necessity among the GCNE activities to recruit and raise the awareness of potential participants at Holdipharma and its affiliated 11 pharmaceutical companies Holdipharma’s focal point participated in most of training programs, workshops and conferences organized by UN GC local network Egypt. Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined several training courses and workshop and conferences organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for building capacity, increasing the awareness of some initiatives, for the safety of the workers, products and environment, energy saving program to improve the sustainability of our companies and awareness for Responsible care initiative. Holdipharma’s Leaders participated in the SDGrowth Conference, under the title “The UN Sustainable Development Goals and Business Opportunities for the Private Sector”. It was organized by the Environmental Compliance Office and Sustainable Development at the Federation of the Egyptian Industries (FEI) under the auspices of Prime Minister H.E. Dr. Mostafa Madbouli on 15 – 16 January 2019 The objective of the Conference was to raise awareness on the goals of SDGs. 45 Holdipharma’s managers participate in training program organized by national anti-corruption academy in Egypt for fighting against corruption, prevention and awareness of its dangers and its negative effects on society and the national economy and overall development. Holdipharma’s focal point participated in workshops with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) , the Egyptian Institute of Directors & UN Global compact Egypt network to improve our control functions through: Business planning & Monitoring Processes, Organizational Structure & information Flow, HR & IT Management Functions, Risk Management Functions, Finance & Accounting, Internal Audit, External Audit, Diagnostic: how can you improve your Business through Management Control. Holdipharma is Promoting good governance, Successful completion of the IFC SME governance workshop 2019 for Holdipharma’s focal point. Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined several training courses and workshop during 2019 organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for building capacity, increasing the awareness of some initiatives, for the safety & security concerning employees , raw material products &company 46 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 5 17 Three of Holdipharma's affiliated companies: CID (chemical industries development), El Nile pharmaceutical company, El Kahira pharmaceutical company, aligned with the international model for women empowerment (EGES) Two of Holdipharma's affiliated companies: CID Company and EL Nile Company merited the Egyptian gender equity seal with high grade. Both companies had already changed existing policies, Mission & Vision and HR related templates to pass the GES audit. Holdipharma has a clear internal policy and guides to ensure that any form of discrimination according to sex or religion or any other criterion is prohibited. In line with the principle of equality of opportunity that is applied in the company, and based on government regulations, there is a 5% allocation of jobs for individuals with disabilities.  INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES Gender Equity Seal (EGES) initiative Gender Equity Seal ( EGES ) Chemical Industries Development-GES A Gender Equity Seal is a joint World Bank/UNIFEM initiative which started in Egypt in 20072010 where 10 private National Companies submitted letters of interest to volunteer for certification process which ensures equal opportunities for both men and women inside the firm. It focuses on equal opportunities in recruitment, training, career development and providing a safe work environment. Holdipharma allows Workers to form and/or join worker organizations of their choice. The company allows such organizations and their representatives to function independently without interference and with reasonable access to the information, resources, and facilities necessary to carry out their functions. Holdipharma prohibits the use of child, forced or involuntary labor, and any form of human trafficking. 47 After launching women's Empowerment Principles (UN Global Compact , UN Women), Chairman of CID Company signed a state of commitment to the 7 principles for women empowerment and then the CEO Statement was published and the practical case study of Chemical Industries Development(CID) was published as a one of the companies leading the way . On 2nd of March 2015, UN Women Egypt country office and Global Compact Local Network in Egyptian partnership with the Egyptian stock exchange a member of the SSE initiative, rings the bell in Cairo, representing Egypt in these series of global Events. Read More... Holdipharma's Chairman joined the champion business leaders and key partners to encourage business leaders from around the world sign the CEO statement of support for the women's Empowerment Principle. Active participation of Holdipharma company with the Egyptian Exchange and the Nilex Sustainability Conference with the Egyptian Ministry of Investment . EGX was the first stock exchange in the MENA region to introduce the ESG index, and second exchange worldwide in 2010. EGX also is an active member of UN-Sustainability Stock Exchange Initiative ( SSE ) since 2012, and WFE-sustainability Working Group (SWG), since March 2014. EGX participates effectively in working groups activities, the UN-SSE selected EGX in feb 2015 as a model for communication to stakeholders. EGX is adopting proactive commercial strategies in response to growing investor in environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues and global sustainable development challenges such as climate change. 48 Holdipharma's focal point was invited from the UN Women and the Global Compact Network Egypt to join the research of Columbia University in the city of New York to help strategize the better implementation of the Women's Empowerment principles (WEPs) in Egypt. Active participation in international conferences and workshops i n t he UN Global compact & UN women in Newyork, meetings, organizations seeking to promote business awareness and respect for human rights. Website: weprinciples.org/Site/CeosSpeak/ weprinciples.org/Site/CompaniesLeadingTheWay/ Website: www.unwomen.org Holdipharma's focal point participated in the conference of Women and Democratic Transition in Egypt / Alex, at the center for Democracy and Social Peace Studies (CDSPS), Bibliotheca Alexandria. The Egyptian Feminist Union and Peace Women Across the Globe ( PWAG ) to encourage and disseminate the culture of peace and democracy, and help develop the abilities of young people to create the conditions for sustainable peace and human security. The academic program of the center offers training sessions that focus on culture of peace, democracy , human rights , non-violent conflict resolution and transformation, gender and peace building, human security and negotiation and mediation skills. Website: http://www.bibalex.org/ 49 NCW presents Egypt's women empowerment strategy 2030 in Geneva President Abdel Fatah al-Sisi announced 2017 as the year of Egyptian women, in light of current political leadership acknowledgement of women’s role, efforts and status in the Egyptian society. CAIRO 20 June 2017: National Council for Women (NCW) Chairwoman Maya Morsi headed Tuesday the 35th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) held in Geneva. Chairwoman Maya Morsi presented the strategy for empowerment of Egyptian women 2030, which is considered the first strategy for empowerment of women on international level, taking into account goals of sustainable development2030. (Read More…) www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNPcNqc40BY Holdipharma's focal point was invited from the Global Compact Network Egypt and UN Global Compact's WEPs Team to join the Women Empowerment Consultation Session in Cairo to develop a diagnostic tool to support implementation of the Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and help companies advance gender Equality policies, strategies and programs. Active participation for Holdipharma's focal Point with IFC & UN Global compact network Egypt in Corporate Governance Program (CGP) and the Women on Boards Seminar. Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies tackling covid-19 Supporting women A paid leave has been implemented during this crisis for all mother workers with children under 12 years old, pregnant women, chronic disease and for all special need and Handicapped employees. 50 The National Council for Women issues its third edition of the women policy tracker on responsive policies & programs during the new COVID-19 Pandemic. The National Council for Women continues its efforts in monitoring the policies & measures considerate to the needs of women which were taken by the Egyptian government as part of the efforts to contain the spread of the current covid-19, as the council announced the issuance of the third edition of the women policy tracker which take into account the needs of women throughout the past period and since the crisis began. Read More… Dr. Maya Morsy, President of the National Council for Women, said that this report comes as a third edition of the two reports that were issued by the Council in the last two months with the aim of: Monitoring all policies & procedures taken by the Government that are responsive to the needs of Egyptian women; designing an easier tool that can be used as reference by decision makers for more collaborative vision on means of moving forward; documenting the coordinated efforts of the government; & reflecting on those policies. Dr. Morsy also indicated that the third edition of the report monitored 80 policies/measures/procedures taken by the Government to contain and control the spread of the current covid-19; that are responsive to Egyptian women needs since the covid-19 hit Egypt until the 6th of June 2020. It is worth mentioning that Mrs. Phumzile Mlambo Ngcuka, Under Secretary General and Executive Director of UN-Women, had previously praised the Women policy tracker on Responsive policies and Programs During COVID-19 Pandemic, & commended the leadership of the Egyptian government on ensuring that its responses has a gender lens, and the tracker serves as an opportunity to ensure that no policy is inconsiderate to women’s needs. 51 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 7 17 Keeping Energy Management Systems on Track Holdipharma's affiliated companies are Building capacity and increasing the awareness through training courses with the environmental compliance office & Ministry of Electricity. Energy efficiency is central to ongoing efforts to tackle climate change. Improving energy efficiency will not only help to curb the greenhouse gas emissions that lead to global warming but will also improve energy security by reducing demand for fossil fuels. Enabling organizations to follow a systematic approach in achieving continual improvement of energy performance, including energy efficiency, energy security, energy use and consumption. The standard aims to help organizations to continually reduce their energy use, and therefore their energy costs and their GHG emissions Holdipharma's affiliated companies With the Ministry of Electricity & Ministry of Environmental Affairs joined the governmental national projects for energy efficiency and energy saving for a better future as: • It reduces the production costs and increases the competitive capacity of our products in both the local and international markets. • Helps our company to face the increase in the energy prices. • Take alternative sources of energy into consideration like solar energy. Holdipharma focal point and representative from each affiliated company attending training program for building the capacity of Women and their role in rationalizing energy consumption and improving the efficiency of their use in the industrial sector, organized by Federation of Egyptian Industries (environmental compliance office). 52 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 9 17 Chemicals and other Dangerous Substances: Collaboration between Holdipharma and its affiliated companies (El Nasr MemphisAlex) with Academy of scientific research and technology. Holdipharma joined with Egypt Knowledge and Technology alliances to bridge the gap between research done in academia and its translation into marketable products EG-KTAs are an assembly of partners working in increasing the innovation capacities of an industrial sector by improving existing products/services or developing new ones. EKTAs aims to pool and network national competences and capabilities at universities, research organizations, NGOs and industry to drive innovation and technology transfer for: -Deepening local manufacturing-increasing local production and enhancing technology transfer with special emphasis on feeding industries to promote the development of innovative products and processes. Cooperation between universities and the pharmaceutical industry, for strengthen healthcare systems. Holdipharma joined with Egypt Knowledge and Technology alliances to bridge the gap between research done in academia and its translation into marketable products Collaboration between Holdipharma and its affiliated companies (EL-Nasr), GUC University & Academy of scientific research and technology (Industrial Pharma Alliance IPA) for innovation of green process for synthesis of antiviral raw material used in global clinical researches trials for treatment of covid-19. Cooperation between universities (Cairo University) and one of affiliated companies (Memphis), for production of innovative local non alcoholic gel sanitizer). 53 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 12 17 Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined several training courses and workshop and conferences organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for building capacity, increasing the awareness of some initiatives, for the safety of the workers, products and environment, energy saving program to improve the sustainability of our companies and awareness for Responsible care initiative. CID has successfully participated in the Advanced International Training Programme for Improving Production for Competitiveness through development of technology, work environment and work organization. Organized in Stockholm Sweden by IFA Production Development AB and SIDA. Website:http://www.ifa.se http://www.sida.se/English/ 54 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 13 17 (ADCO) One of Holdipharma affiliated companies joined: UNIDO Project with Ministry of Environmental Affairs Due to the implementation of the Montreal Protocol in Canada, UNIDO does a contract agreement with the Egyptian Ministry of Environmental Affairs (EEAA) and the Arab Drug company for pharmaceuticals Industry (ADCO) under the title Together towards a better Environment and so the Arab Drug Company for pharmaceuticals Industry is the unique pharmaceutical company known for producing Metered dose inhalers (MDI’s) used in the treatment of bronchial asthma and the respiratory diseases. ADCO used in MDI's production CFC gas was harmful to the environment as it was the reason of the disruption of the Ozone layer. For these reasons, the Arab Drug Company for pharmaceuticals Industry has been able to get on one of the grants from the UNIDO structured to protect the environment and the ozone layer. The main goal of the UNIDO grant was to protect the Ozone layer by stopping using CFC gas and substituting it by HFA gas safer and less harmful to the Ozone layer. The Role of the grant from the UNIDO to ADCO was as the following:  Provide to ADCO two production lines (preparation and filling)  Provide to ADCO technology transfer by hiring a team from Cardiff University, England, for the production of four MDI's products.  The agreement Implementation began in 2010.  Three products were already produced and marketed in the Egyptian Market and the fourth product was suspected to be produced with beginning of 2017. 55 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 16 17 Active participation for Holdipharma's focal point in iftar conference titled “Egyptian Businesses for Peace.” with UNGCNE and UNODC, UNIC and IOM. This Iftar Event brought together the private sector and public sector to showcase how through partnerships and collaborative efforts peace can be achieved. Holdipharma participating in Egypt conference business for peace organized by UN Global Compact Network Egypt. Holdipharma company's internal procedures support its anti-corruption commitment through implementing anti-corruption standards into the core structure of the company relies heavily on the development of suitable procedures which are resistant to corruption and able to raise internal alarms. These alarms are signals regarding occurrences which are investigated at a higher level in the organization. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies have assigned different individuals and departments to be responsible for handling contracts, placing orders, receiving goods, processing invoices and making payments. 56 United Nations Global Compact principles Holdipharma commit to respect the ten principles UN Global Compact Global Compact Principles Disclosures Holdipharma Position Human Rights: 1-Businesses should support and respect the Human Rights We conduct business responsibly according to the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. highest ethical standards, including respect for human Rights. We are working toward fuller implementation of Human Rights These principles throughout our supply network. 2-Businesses should make sure that they are not Local Communities complicit in human rights abuses. Labor: Freedom of We respect the rights of employees to freedom of 3-Businesses should uphold the freedom of Association Association and collective bargaining. We maintain a association and the effective recognition of the Labor Relations collaborative relationship with employees and address right to collective bargaining. issues relating to their rights in a positive manner We do not engage in any practice that could be Forced and 4-Businesses should support the elimination of Construed as forced labor. All Holdipharma employees Compulsory Labor all forms of forced and compulsory labor. areemployed lawfully and at their own free will. We respect and support the rights of children and are 5-Businesses should support the effective Child Labor Committed to safeguarding their interests. We do not abolition of Child labor. Employ children in any part of our business. We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and inclusive 6Businesses should support the elimination of Labor Practices and practices for new and current employees in all matters discrimination in respect of employment and Decent Work Relating to their employment with Holdipharma. Occupation. Environment: Environmental 7-Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8-Businesses should undertake initiatives to Environmental promote greater environmental responsibility. We adopt environmentally-oriented practices in our Operations and conserve resources wherever possible. 9-Businesses should encourage the development Environmental anddiffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption We are committed to behaving with integrity and acting 10-Businesses should work against corruption in Anti-corruption Against corruption. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 57 Human Rights • Principle 1:Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Principle 2:Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Holdipharma and its affiliated companies are committed to the Egyptian Labour laws and under the International Labour Organization (ILO) standards. Holdipharma and its affiliated are committed to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles in 2015 and was circulated to the CEO of the 11 affiliated companies to follow. Holdipharma is committed to develop an organizational culture that adheres to and supports the internationally recognized rights stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and prioritize sustainable and responsible growth to our company. This dedication to Human Rights is made clear through the ongoing Supplier Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethicspolicies that address all of our partners, suppliers and employees. Further work to embed human rights into business decision-making processes, including risk review for projects. Implementation Holdipharma apply anti-discrimination practices and we are committed to our employees, we are committed to respect human rights in both our workplace and our surrounding community. We also support Human Rights in our supply chain, including the right to minimum wage and nondiscrimination in the workplace and we prohibit the use of forced and child labor. • Health and Safety: Most of Holdipharma’s affiliated companies have accredited safety standards, such as OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Health and Safety, ISO 14001 for Environmental management systems, ISO 9001 for quality management system or their equivalent. Minimizes the health and safety risks by continuing to satisfy the necessities for maintaining the OHSAS 18001 certification and annually renewing it. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies provide safe and healthy working facilities and take appropriate precautionary measures to protect workers from work-related hazards and anticipated dangers in the workplace. The Occupational Health and Safety issue is one of our primary goals to ensure the health and safety of our employees. 58 Cooperation between Holdipharma & Egypt’s Ministry of Health in“100 Million Healthy Lives” initiative. Which aims to eliminate hepatitis C (HCV) disease from Egypt 2022. The Company offers flexible working arrangements to women who are pregnant or nursing. The company offers its employees many benefits. There is a medical department, offering free services for employees in the clinic. Family members can receive medical care in centers—i.e., hospitals and clinics—contracted by the company at a very reduced fare. Protective Equipment and Training: All workers are trained for all tasks for which they are responsible prior to new assignments. Workers aren’t exposed to harmful processes, chemicals, substances or techniques. When exposure is unavoidable, all workers exposed are provided with the necessary protective equipment at no cost. Workers are protected against processes, substances and techniques, which are, unhealthy or harmful. • Employee Involvement : The company set up a health and safety committee with persons representing both management and workers. The committee handles complaints regarding health and safety; work with risk prevention, monitor accident statistics and take actions to prevent recurrence. The risk of accidents is minimized by documenting accidents, adapting processes to prevent recurrence and an effective emergency plan. The procedures comply with the national and international standards. • Hours, Wages and Leaves : Holdipharma and its affiliated companies are committed to the International Labour Organization (ILO) working hours. Overtime is voluntary, Overtime hours are compensated by leave time or pay at a premium rate over and above the normal rate of pay. Wages are paid on time and enable workers to meet their basic needs. The Leave: All the companies ensure that all workers are granted paid annual holiday and sick leave. Maternity rights are granted to females. The three-month paid leave, the one-hour for breastfeeding after delivery, as well as the possibility of the unpaid leave, with a maximum of six (6) years are all offered. There is a day care center for children in some affiliated companies. In some affiliated companies e.g: (CID) additional services to women there is a family planning center for follow-up of pregnant woman, being concerned with reproductive health, for the 59 major part. This center offers its services free of charge to employees, and to residents of the district at reduced fee. The company subsidizes all services, extending from health care, to transportation, to recreational activities in the form of trips and summer resort. • Employment Status : All workers are entitled to know their employment status with the company and the working conditions. • Recruitment and selection of Personnel : Advertisements for jobs specify the criteria of employment, with no gender specification. Any form of discrimination according to sex or religion or any other criterion is forbidden in the company. In line with the principle of equality of opportunity that is applied in the company, and based on government regulations, there is a 5% allocation of jobs for individuals with disabilities. The procedures describe clearly how personnel will be recruited and selected. The recruitment procedures and selection processes described in the gender equity policy and adopted in practice promote equal opportunity and antidiscrimination policies. All candidates for a position are assessed using clearly defined criteria and exposed to similar interview processes to guard against unintentional bias. • Three of Holdipharma’s affiliated companies : Aligned with the international model for women empowerment, CID(chemical industries development), El Nile pharmaceutical company, El Kahira pharmaceutical company *Website: www.unwomen.org CID company and EL Nile Company merited the Egyptian gender equity seal* with high grade. Both companies had already changed existing policies, Mission & Vision and HR related templates to pass the GES audit. *A Gender Equity Seal is a joint World Bank/UNIFEM initiative which started in Egypt in 2007-2010 where 10 private National Companies submitted letters of interest to volunteer for certification process which ensures equal opportunities for both men and women inside the firm. It focuses on equal opportunities in recruitment, training , career development and providing a safe work environment. Active participation in international conferences and workshops in the UN Global compact & UN women in New York , meetings, organizations seeking to promote business awareness and respect for human rights. 60 • Fair Treatment: • Non harassment: Two of our affiliated Companies who align with the gender equity seal established a system against all types of harassment in the gender equity model and was circulated to the rest of the affiliates through training workshops to follow. The Companies policies and regulations that exist, describe how to take action in the case that harassment does occur. The companies’ employees are familiar with the policy against all types of harassment and what constitutes inappropriate behavior. The Companies respond rapidly and act on harassment complaints. Our ongoing plan is to make training workshops in our training centers for non-harassment awareness to implement and apply in the remaining of the affiliated companies. • Employee Privacy: When the company needs to gather information about its workers in relation to taxation or insurance, or implements workplace monitoring procedures, it ensures that the measures are legal and for a legitimate purpose. Personal information collected are minimal and kept safe from unauthorized access. Workers are informed of any workplace monitoring and know what personal data is kept on them and they have access to correct this data. Measurements We have taken certain measures to adhere to the principles of human rights in both our workplace and our surrounding community. A mechanism for receiving complaints has been established and specific employees have been appointed to deal with them. This channel has been announced through the company’s email, has been dedicated to receiving the complaints and suggestions. A survey has been developed to measure types of harassments occurring inside the company and results have been analyzed. A complain Box has been installed for employees to submit their complaints. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact, the health and safety for people and communities around the world. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies are fully committed for providing our customers and patients the quality medicines they need and prioritizing the manufacture of medicines that are in high demand due to the outbreak of COVID-19 (Read More…) 61 Labor • Principle 3:Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4:The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Principle 5:The effective abolition of child labor. • Principle 6:Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Holdipharma has a clear internal policy and guides to ensure that any form of discrimination according to sex or religion or any other criterion is prohibited. In line with the principle of equality of opportunity that is applied in the company, and based on government regulations, there is a 5% allocation of jobs for individuals with disabilities. Holdipharma allows Workers to form and/or join worker organizations of their choice. The company allows such organizations and their representatives to function independently without interference and with reasonable access to the information, resources, and facilities necessary to carry out their functions. Holdipharma prohibits the use of child, forced or involuntary labor, and any form of human trafficking. Implementation:  INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES Gender Equity Seal (EGES) initiative (Supporting SDG 5) A Gender Equity Seal is a joint World Bank/UNIFEM initiative which started in Egypt in 20072010 where 10 private National Companies submitted letters of interest to volunteer for certification process which ensures equal opportunities for both men and women inside the firm. It focuses on equal opportunities in recruitment, training, career development and providing a safe work environment. Three of Holdipharma’s affiliated companies: CID (chemical industries development), El Nile pharmaceutical company, El Kahira pharmaceutical company, aligned with the international model for women empowerment (EGES) Two of Holdipharma’s affiliated companies: CID Company and EL Nile Company merited the Egyptian gender equity seal with high grade. Both companies had already changed existing policies, Mission & Vision and HR related templates to pass the GES audit. 62 Measurement: To maintain a gender balanced workplace with women representing: 50% of CEO for Holdipharma’s affiliated pharmaceutical production companies(8) are females and 43% of head sectors in Holdipharma organization are women The company takes all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. Sex disaggregated data implemented to measure the area of weakness concerning the four areas(training, recruitment, career development and women in the board) in our affiliated companies to support. Holdipharma’s focal point was invited from the Global Compact Network Egypt and UN Global Compact’s WEPs Team to join the Women Empowerment Consultation Session in Cairo to develop a diagnostic tool to support implementation of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and help companies advance gender Equality policies, strategies and programs. Read the full story here: https://www.gcnetworkegypt.org/celebration-of-international-women-day-2019/ As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact, the health and safety for people and communities around the world. Holdipharma & its affiliated companies are fully committed for providing our customers and patients the quality medicines they need and prioritizing the manufacture of medicines that are in high demand due to the outbreak of COVID-19 (Read More…) 63 ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Principle 9: Encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Holdipharma and its affiliated companies follow the Governmental environmental laws, and International agreements with the Egyptian Ministry of Environmental Affairs. Holdipharma company's strategy and policy encourage all the affiliated companies to: • Apply environment friendly technologies and continuously evaluate their processes and technologies to see if it is possible to change to more environment friendly alternatives as a precautionary approach to the environmental challenges, • Reduce our impact on climate change ozone layer, Compliance with legislation and local environmental safety systems., • Implementation of ISO 14001 requirements or its equivalent in all production sites of the company. Holdipharma's strategy for sustainability can turn some of the most critical threats into opportunities, by replacing a high risk component with an alternative which does not have a negative environmental impact or using heat from one process to pre-heat inputs of another process can save energy and reduce heat emissions. Website: www.eco-fei.org Implementation: Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined several training courses and workshop and conferences organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for building capacity, increasing the awareness of some initiatives, for the safety of the workers, products and environment, energy saving program to improve the sustainability of our companies and awareness for Responsible care initiative. Gas Emission: Holdipharma and its affiliated companies Started to apply a governmental national policy to measure , monitor and continuously reduce its energy consumption and emission of greenhouse gases e.g. by changing procedures followed or introducing new technologies. The measures taken by the company are in accordance with national regulatory requirements, international conventions and agreements, the precautionary approach and best practice. (ADCO) One of Holdipharma affiliated companies joined: 64 Holdipharma Supporting SDG 13 UNIDO Project with Ministry of Environmental Affairs Water and Waste water: Holdipharma and its affiliated companies' policies encourage and support some procedures, projects and initiatives to take the availability of water into consideration and to take measures to reduce water consumption. The company also takes measures to avoid water pollution by preventing and reducing waste water discharges e.g. through increased production efficiencies and replacement of harmful substances. Waste water is treated to minimize the impact on the aquatic environment. Ongoing Projects: Two of Holdipharma affiliated companies ADCO & CID joined the Egyptian Pollution Abatement Program (EPAP III) with the Environmental Affairs Agency ( EEAA ) to protect human health and the environment, Supported financially by European Investment Bank. Waste Management: According to the waste hierarchy , waste should be reduced, reused and recycled as much as possible. All the affiliated companies take measures to ensure that waste is sorted into fractions, e.g. paper, packaging, biodegradable waste. Waste that cannot be reused or recycled should be treated. Specific types of waste associated with the greatest potential environmental impacts require special attention, including chemical waste and waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). Air Emissions: Emission of pollutants to the air can occur from a wide variety of the company’s operations and activities including industrial processes, energy production and transport. Typical air pollutants are nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, small particles, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) such as benzene and metals such as lead. Emissions of dioxins, and pollutants causing ozone depletion such as HCFCs should also receive attention. All affiliated companies monitor its emissions and take measures to reduce the amount and number of pollutants to air. The measures taken by all the affiliated companies are in accordance with national regulatory requirements, international conventions, agreements, the precautionary approach and best practice. See for example: The Ministry of Environmental Affairs projects, Website: http://www.eeaa.gov.eg/ Noise, Odor, Light and Vibrations: Noise, odor, light and vibrations may be caused by a wide variety of the company's operations and activities, including the establishment of new sites, expansion and closure of sites. Noise and vibrations may be related to the use of machinery inside and outside of the company's buildings and production sites, e.g. from punching machines, diesel generators and heavy 65 vehicles delivering or picking up products or goods. Odours may also be associated with production cycles and waste generation and light might be a nuisance from night work. The company monitors the level of noise and other nuisances that result from its activities and ensure that measures are in place to prevent, minimize and remedy significant impacts on the surrounding natural environment and neighborhood. The measures taken by the company are in accordance with national regulatory requirements. Chemicals and other Dangerous Substances: To protect the environment and human health, the use of many chemicals and other dangerous substances is restricted. All the affiliated companies ensure that banned chemicals are not used in the company's operations and activities. All the affiliated companies take measures to ensure safe storage, handling and disposal of chemicals and other dangerous substances including oil and fuel. Proper documentation and labeling of chemicals and dangerous substances used and/or stored are applied according to the ISO 140001. Furthermore, all the affiliated companies ensure that it takes all necessary measures to substitute with less harmful chemicals and substances wherever possible. The measures taken by all the affiliated companies are in accordance with national regulatory requirements, international conventions, agreements, the precautionary approach and best practice. See for example: The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs). Environmentally friendly technology: Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration defines environment friendly technologies as technologies that “protect the environment, are less polluting, use all resources in a more sustainable manner, recycle more of their wastes and products, and handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies for which they were substitutes.” They are “not just individual technologies but can also be total systems including know-how, procedures, goods and services and equipment as well as organizational and managerial procedures.” Environmentally friendly technologies include cleaner production processes and pollution prevention technologies. They can increase operating efficiencies, and reduce emissions, worker exposure and risks of environmental damage. Keeping Energy Management Systems on Track Holdipharma's affiliated companies are Building capacity and increasing the awareness through training courses with the environmental compliance office & Ministry of Electricity. Energy efficiency is central to ongoing efforts to tackle climate change. Improving energy efficiency will not only help to curb the greenhouse gas emissions that lead to global warming but will also improve energy security by reducing demand for fossil fuels. 66 Supporting SDG 712 Measurements: All the affiliated companies take measures to ensure safe handling, storage, transport and disposal of wastes e.g. by making personal protection equipment available and including instructions and appropriate training. The measures taken by the company are in accordance with national regulatory requirements, international conventions, agreements, the precautionary approach and best practice. See for example: The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs); where Holdipharma reviewed all the raw materials and the waste products, ensured and committed that all the affiliated companies are complying with the Stockholm agreement with the Egyptian government 2004 and no company used or produced hazardous substances. 67 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption is a considerable obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and particularly affects poor communities. Holdipharma is committed to the UN Global Compact’s Principle 10. Assessment, Policy and Goals Holdipharma's affiliated companies were guided to assess the risk of corruption when doing business. This assessment has a different focus depending on the specific situation and context, and relates to internal structures of the company. Assessing the supply chain to minimize supply-chain corruption risk through the risk assessment tool provided by the UN Global Compact. A mechanism for receiving complaints has been established by which workers can safely report suspicion of corruption related cases and allocates resources to systematically address the issues that are identified and specific employees have been appointed to deal with them. Implementation: The company has identified internal functions with the highest risk of corruption within the company and seeks to address these weaknesses. The company has developed an action plan to address the risk of corruption, and has defined responsibilities for each task, as a minimum for high-risk areas. Awareness-raising program was held for the long-term success of fighting corruption. Holdipharma held a committee for anti-corruption to follow up any complaints. Holdipharma provides anti-corruption awareness workshops within the organization for the long-term success of fighting corruption, Monitor and regularly update the programme. The company informs all workers about its anti-corruption commitment. This channel has been announced through the complaint Box that has been installed for employees to submit their complaints. Holdipharma and it’s affiliated companies Published a new Code of Conduct (en) , (ar) 68 Supporting SDG 16-17 Holdipharma ensures the elimination of corruption to build sustainable, inclusive and transparent societies. Holdipharma is Promoting good governance. Successful completion of the IFC SME governance workshop 2019 for Holdipharma’s focal point Holdipharma participating in training program organized by national anti-corruption academy in Egypt for fighting against corruption, prevention and awareness of its dangers and its negative effects on society and the national economy and overall development. Anti-corruption procedures are applied as they are essential to the rule of law and peacebuilding because corruption negatively impacts state capacity, social inclusion, and management of natural resources. Peace is a catalyst of sustainable development and is a prerequisite for the establishment of the rule of law and efforts to reduce corruption. Finally, rule of law is necessary to effectively address the drivers of violent conflict, illicit financial flows, and impunity, and to provide a legal framework which ensures impartiality and predictability. Holdipharma company's internal procedures support its anti-corruption commitment through implementing anti-corruption standards into the core structure of the company relies heavily on the development of suitable procedures which are resistant to corruption and able to raise internal alarms. These alarms are signals regarding occurrences which are investigated at a higher level in the organization. Holdipharma and its affiliated companies have assigned different individuals and departments to be responsible for handling contracts, placing orders, receiving goods, processing invoices and making payments. 69 Holdipharma’s focal point participated with the UN Global Compact in Dubai event 24th to 27th October 2016 at Business for Peace initiative and committed to the Pearl Initiative. Pearl Initiative Website: http://www.pearlinitiative.org/ Measurements: Holdipharma's affiliated companies joined a training course and workshop organized by the Environmental compliance office and sustainable development (Federation of Egypt Industries) for security risk management & tools to increase the awareness of security (December 2019). Holdipharma establish Security Management System: By set of policies, processes and procedures to fulfill the security proactive, mitigation & corrective action. 70 -
