Sustainability Report 2019 Welcome to the Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 3 A message from our Chief Executive Officer 4 Who we are 6 About this report 7 Our sustainability approach 8 Our sustainabilitystrategy 10 Our partners 11 At a glance 12 Health and safety 16 Environment 20 Community 21 Human rights 24 Food and feed safety 27 Assurance report of the independent auditor 30 Key performance indicators glencoreagriculture.com A message from our Chief Executive Officer I’d like to introduce you to our 2019 Sustainability Report. As a global leader in the sourcing, handling, processing and marketing of agricultural commodities and products, we take very seriously our responsibility towards our people, our communities, the environment and the quality of the food and feed we supply. This is Glencore Agriculture’s second In the communities where we our communities. Throughout our public sustainability report and operate we aim to be a trusted operations we are doing what we can reflects our efforts to both increase employer, customer and partner to help local communities combat and improve our activity and refine and this year, as every year, local the effects of the virus: supplying our sustainability reporting. We have Glencore Agriculture businesses personal protective equipment to set new reportable goals, provided have supported their communities medical and fire services, providing assured data and revealed some very through an array of programmes, food supplies to local communities positive results. The report lays out fundraising and assistance, of which hard hit by the economic our approach to being a sustainable there are many examples in this consequences of the international business and describes our activities report. We are also committed to lockdown and donating funds or and performance during 2019 in each upholding human rights wherever products where needed. of the four pillars of our strategy: we work, and in 2019 we published health and safety, environment, our first Modern Slavery statement. Looking forward community and human rights, and We continue to emphasise the It is likely that COVID-19 will continue food and feed safety. safety and quality of the products we to affect how we run our business The health and safety of our handle through our membership of for most of 2020. We are taking workforce is our number one international initiatives and a clear steps to pre-emptively strengthen priority and it is immensely pleasing focus on quality control and food and our operations and logistics to that in 2019 our health and safety feed safety management, with no provide timely delivery of products improvement plan has seen our serious incidents reported during and maintain our high standards workplaces become safer, with a the year. of quality and food safety, without significant reduction in the number compromising on the health and of workplace injuries and a lower COVID-19 safety of our employees, contractors recordable injury frequency rate. and visitors. These measures As I write, we are in the midst of are designed to ensure business We are focused on minimising the COVID-19 pandemic, the worst continuity, with a focus on keeping the environmental impact of our global crisis for many generations. It our supply chains operational so we operations and supporting the is at times like these that businesses can continue to meet the needs of environmental sustainability of show their true strengths, and I am our customers. our supply chains. This year, we are very pleased with how Glencore reporting for the first time on our Agriculture has risen to the challenge. performance in a range of areas We have continued to supply the against a 2018 baseline. Over the world with food and feed, without coming years we will put in place the any material disruptions, while structural improvements needed maintaining hygiene and strict David Mattiske to improve our performance even measures to ensure the health Chief Executive Officer further. and safety of our workforce and Glencore Agriculture Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 3 Who we are We are Glencore Agriculture, a global leader in the sourcing, handling, processing and marketing of agricultural commodities and products. With operations in more than 35 Using our network of storage Through our industry insight, strong countries and a workforce of more facilities, processing plants and relationships and network of assets, than 16,000, we create value for transport assets we process, we focus on the sustainability, safety, producers at origin and customers manage and supply these quality and reliability of everything at destination. commodities and products to our we do. customers around the world. Our business covers the whole We are wholly owned by three supply chain from the farm gate Our customers include the shareholders who are investing for to the customer. processing industry (food, animal the long-term: Glencore, the Canada feed and consumer products), Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) We source commodities such as local importers and distributors and British Columbia Investment grains, oilseeds, pulses, rice, sugar and governments. Management Corporation (BCI). and cotton from producers. 4 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 North America EU/FSU 5 75+ 3 5 12 30+ 8 7 Asia 7 Africa 4 South America 5 10+ 20 5 Australia & New Zealand 3 60+ 7 Marketing Storage and Logistics Processing Port terminals handling and refining We combine We have storage and Our comprehensive We own a range We own a network our insight and handling facilities logistics network of processing and of 24 port terminals experience with in key growing allows us to oversee refining facilities in nine of the our network of regions, enabling the our commodities that enable us main exporting assets and strong quality of produce from the producer’s to ship some of countries from relationships to be maintained gate to the hands of the agricultural which we supply with producers to and available when the customer. commodities we bulk shipments to source agricultural customers need it. supply as a range destination markets commodities and of useful products all over the world. supply them to our ready for our customers around customers to use. the world. Marketing offices in 180+ 180+ 31 24 storage assets in ocean-going processing port terminals in 33 vessels (voyage and refining countries 14 and time charter) facilities in 9 2000+ 11 countries countries leased/owned countries rail wagons Figures correct at time of printing Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 5 About this report Boundaries and scope Data and information This report includes information Glencore Agriculture’s internal incident reporting may take place later and data from our operations and reporting systems capture and due to an improved understanding marketing activities. It only covers retain the data in this report. The of the incident or revisions to its assets where we have operational metrics in this report are primarily classification. Where this results in a control, and it excludes investment based on Global Reporting Initiative material restatement of previously and holding companies. Our (GRI) indicators. reported data, we will publicly disclose marketing offices do not report the restatement and its rationale. All figures stated in this report on environmental data. represent the latest available data EY has performed a limited assurance The report contains data for the unless referenced in the text. Some engagement on the 2018 and 2019 full year 2019. Acquisitions are only of the totals shown may reflect the figures for the key performance included if they were integrated rounding up or down of subtotals. indicators (KPIs) total recordable injury before 1 October 2019. Our 2019 In rare cases we may have restated frequency rate (TRIFR), disabling report does not incorporate data figures from previous years to reflect injury severity rate (DISR), total energy from our December 2019 majority improvements in our data collection, consumption, share of renewable acquisition of Renova. Data from analysis and validation systems. energy, total water withdrawal and divestments is included until the total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Glencore Agriculture seeks to report month before disposal. as included on page 30 of this on every incident in the period in sustainability report. Refer to page which it occurs. Occasionally, our 27 for the assurance report of the independent auditor. We may change our approach to how we report our data in future sustainability reports without prior announcement; we may also change the reporting of specific data and its interpretation. 6 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Our sustainability approach As a socially responsible business we make sure we act in a transparent and responsible way that protects our people, our customers, our communities and the environment. Our approach We have implemented the Glencore Group Our sustainability approach encompasses compliance programme. Our employees all of our employees, our supply chain receive regular training on a range of ethics and and every community where we operate. compliance topics. Our Raising Concerns platform It is supported by a robust structure that allows anyone to raise a grievance or concern ensures our standards meet or exceed anonymously (read more on page 22). legal requirements and our performance is closely monitored. We regularly share our performance, learning and experiences with all internal stakeholders and management around Group policies the world to ensure everyone remains We have a range of policies which set out our informed and benefits from being a part strategic positions and form part of our corporate of our global network. decision-making. Our values Operational policies Our approach to sustainability is built on our They are supported in turn by more detailed values of safety, entrepreneurialism, simplicity, operational policies, procedures and processes responsibility and openness. These values created to support our policy statements and meet reflect the culture of Glencore Agriculture. the specific needs of individual assets. Code of conduct Performance and alignment Our values provide the foundations of our Progress is monitored by our sustainability code of conduct, which sets out the standards committee and relevant business leads to keep it we require people to meet and understand. in line with the needs of our business. Performance This code puts our values into practice and in the areas of health, safety, environment and informs our daily actions and decisions. communities is a key element of management reporting to the global executive management team and the board of directors. Sustainability committee Reflecting the importance we place on sustainability, the committee is led by our Chief Executive Officer David Mattiske, and includes Chief Financial Officer Peter Mouthaan, Health and Safety Manager Matthew Mann, Environment Manager Rob Groeliker, and Executive Manager Human Resources/Communications Mieke Pattenier. The committee works to an established charter. It is responsible for establishing policy and strategy and monitoring of relevant risk management and performance. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 7 Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy is designed to safeguard our people and communities, protect the environment and ensure all our food and feed products meet the highest international standards. As a global leader in agricultural commodities we understand the vital role we play in the lives of those who work for us, in the communities they live in, in the safety of those we serve through the commodities we supply and in supporting the environment we all share. We aim to meet our responsibilities to our people, customers, communities and the environment, ensuring we fulfil our legal requirements and go beyond them to manage the risks inherent in our business and maintain our social licence to operate. Our strategy organises our activity into four pillars: Health and safety Environment Community and Food and feed safety human rights Lead the industry in Minimise any impact Meet the highest health and safety, on the environment Support the long-term standards in all eliminating injuries from our operations development of local our food and feed and fatalities communities and products uphold human rights 8 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable development goals We support the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals which are mapped on to our sustainability pillars. We take active measures to contribute to the following: 2 2 Zero hunger 6 6 Clean water 13 13 Climate action End hunger, achieve and sanitation Take urgent action to food security and Ensure access to water combat climate change improved nutrition and and sanitation for all and its impacts promote sustainable agriculture 8 15 15 Decent work and Life on land 8 economic growth Sustainably manage 3 3 Good health Promote inclusive and forests, combat and wellbeing sustainable economic desertification, halt Ensure healthy lives growth, employment and and reverse land and promote wellbeing decent work for all degradation, halt for all at all ages biodiversity loss 12 12 Responsible 17 17 consumption and Partnerships 5 5 Gender equality production Revitalise the Achieve gender equality global partnership Ensure sustainable and empower all for sustainable consumption and women and girls development production patterns Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 9 Our partners We work with a range of organisations and businesses in our industry and beyond so that together we can build the most sustainable future possible. United Nations Global Compact Round Table on Responsible Soy We are participants in the United Nations Global As members of the Round Table on Responsible Soy, an Compact, an initiative to generate a global movement international organisation that promotes the responsible towards sustainable development. It calls for companies production, processing and trading of soy globally, we are to align their operations with universal principles on part of a joint effort to increase production of soy while human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. reducing environmental harm. World Business Council for Sustainable Development Amazon Soy Moratorium We are a member of the World Business Council for As long-term signatories of the Amazon Soy Moratorium, Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a global advocacy we do not source soybeans from lands deforested after association made up of 200 international companies that 2008 in Amazon Biome or from producers who are not have a focus on sustainable development. It provides compliant with other socio-environmental requirements leadership to drive change and improve sustainability across Brazil. within each business and will increase the opportunities Since the start of the Amazon Soy Moratorium in 2006, for us to collaborate with like-minded companies in deforestation in the Amazon has significantly reduced. creating a sustainable future. Recent increases in deforestation are being closely monitored and do not seem related to any commodities Soft Commodities Forum we source from the region. We continue to work with We are members of the Soft Commodities Forum (SCF), the industry, producers, governments and many other a global platform for leading soft commodities companies, interested parties to bring solutions to the sector in order convened by the WBCSD. We participate in a common to fully eliminate deforestation from our value chains. framework for reporting and monitoring progress on transparent and traceable supply chains for soy in Better Cotton Initiative Brazil's Cerrado region. The initiative aims to turn the The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) is the largest cotton commitments made by its members into accountable sustainability programme in the world and aims to make and measurable action. global cotton production better for the people who produce it, better for the environment it grows in and better Cerrado Working Group for the sector’s future. It trains producers in sustainable We are a member of the Cerrado Working Group, which practices to reduce the amount of fertiliser, pesticides brings together stakeholders such as major retailers and water they use. Our goal is to increase the volume of groups, financial institutions, civil society members, sustainably produced cotton in our supply chains. agri-industry and commodity exporting associations. The group, formed in 2017, is seeking solutions to end International Sustainability and Carbon Certification legal conversion of natural areas by developing an We are members of the ISCC, a globally leading environmental compensation mechanism that would certification system that certifies the sustainable origins compensate farmers to keep native vegetation inside of the agricultural produce we market and supply. their lands beyond the legal requirements. Global sustainability summit We held our first global sustainability summit in October 2019. More than 60 senior managers and health, safety, environment and community (HSEC) leaders from across the business attended the event in The Hague, Netherlands. The summit concentrated on how sustainability works in our business and the role of our leaders in supporting our focus areas, programmes and goals. It also saw the launch of Glencore Agriculture’s global HSEC policy. Speakers from across the business covered a range of health, safety, environment, community and human rights related topics. Presenters showcased their local activities which demonstrate progress towards our company-wide HSEC objectives. The summit was successful as a means of exchanging ideas and raising the profile of sustainability in the business. 10 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 At a glance Percentages show 2019 performance versus 2018 performance 16,000 workforce 80m+ zero tonnes of commodities reported serious marketed food or feed safety incidents zero 6 101% 13% reported human catastrophic risk improvement in increase in rights breaches management near miss and hours worked audits conducted hazard reporting 18% 27% 14% 30% reduction in reported reduction in total reduction in reduction in lost injuries to employees recordable injury disabling injury time injury frequency and contractors frequency rate (TRIFR) severity rate (DISR) rate (LTIFR) 6.7% 13.1% 2.6% 15.7% reduction in total reduction in total increase in share of reduction in total energy consumption greenhouse gas renewable energy water withdrawal (GHG) emissions Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 11 Health and safety The health and safety of our people is our highest priority. We want to be an industry leader in both health and safety outcomes. Our ultimate goal is for all our workplaces to be free from incidents and injuries. Why it matters A safe and healthy working environment is essential This improvement plan and our approach to health to the long-term wellbeing of our people and the and safety create steady and sustainable improvement sustainability of our business. Our goal is for zero through three key programmes: health and safety incidents and injuries. • developing our safety culture Our approach • developing our risk management capabilities • maintaining effective systems and processes. Our global health and safety programme, SafeAgri, We concentrate on doing the things which make a positive enables everyone in our business to focus consistently impact on safety performance and improve our safety on creating safer workplaces. culture. Our current focus is on driving a culture of reporting, We have a health and safety improvement plan to which enables us to identify and correct unsafe conditions guide us towards our ultimate goals of zero catastrophic or situations prior to causing an incident or injury. events, zero fatal incidents and a 50% reduction in our Global programmes are a key feature of our approach, but injury rate by 2023. there is also a need for a localised focus on safety issues. The plan has three priorities: Each region develops an annual safety improvement plan, focused on achieving global targets as well as improving • prevent catastrophic events local factors that contribute to injuries and incidents. • eliminate fatal incidents • reduce the rate of common injuries. Alignment to 3 8 UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 10.3 9.7 7.7 7.1 TRIFR year on year 4.85 TARGET 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 Performance in 2019 compared to 2018 101% 18% increase in 27% reduction in 30% reduction in number of reduction in proactive TRIFR reported injuries LTIFR reporting Our performance in 2019 In 2019 we have made our Throughout 2019 we reviewed and We augmented our assurance workplaces safer. As a business, we updated our global fatal hazard programme with targeted saw improvements in all our key protocols. These 16 protocols provide assessment of health and safety health and safety metrics, including for consistent standards across all management systems. Each region an 18% reduction in the number of business areas where those risks conducted self-assessments of reported work related injuries, a 14% are present, regardless of country compliance to five of our fatal reduction in disabling injury severity or operation. hazard protocols which most often rate (DISR), and a 27% reduction in contribute to 'near miss' incidents. The most common causes of injuries the total recordable injury frequency in our business are slips, trips and The monitoring of health and rate (TRIFR). falls. Consequently we developed safety performance and emerging The TRIFR measures the overall harm a slips, trips and falls prevention issues is the responsibility of our caused by our activities. We also guideline which provides industryglobal sustainability committee. saw a 30% reduction in the lost time specific guidance for our sites Standard health and safety injury frequency rate (LTIFR), but and offices on how to reduce the reporting is conducted routinely feel this is a less effective measure likelihood of these types of incidents. and reported globally. of safety. From January 2020 we are We retained our catastrophic risk introducing an additional measure, management assurance for significant injuries, which will programme, focusing on: become an important measure in our reporting. • bussing • dust explosion Our focus on learning from serious near-miss incidents saw our near• vapour explosion. miss reports across the globe more than double in 2019. We expanded the scope of our SafeAgri programme, with new protocols for: Pandemics Personnel lifts Stacking and storage Structural failure Security Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 13 Life-saving behaviour campaign Our rapeseed crush and biodiesel plant in Magdeburg, Germany, has produced a range of posters to remind colleagues to follow our life-saving behaviours. The business felt a more personal approach would encourage staff to take Employee wellness ownership of their own safety and that of their colleagues, as well as raising We encourage our employees to maintain good health awareness of the SafeAgri programme. and we run wellness programmes in many of our regions. We asked colleagues what the effect LiveUp is a health and wellness campaign launched in would be on their loved ones if they were our Ukrainian business in 2019 with the aim of improving involved in a serious incident and asked the health, safety and wellbeing of employees and those members of their families how important in the local communities. Dozens of activities and events it is for them that their parents, spouses during the first year of the campaign covered areas such and children come home safely each day. as living a greener lifestyle, health checks and community improvement. From these conversations we made posters featuring the employees involved The programme improved staff health, morale and in the discussions with safety reminders engagement and enhanced the company’s reputation and messages. Even dogs made an internally and locally. appearance! A year-long 2019 wellness programme in India was Overall the posters were well received initiated after a couple of health events among employees around the plant, reminding employees of highlighted the need. It had a very local flavour, with yoga important safety messages and providing lessons, a celebration of pulses day, box cricket, monsoon a little light-hearted entertainment. trek added to health checks, marathon running, and regular fitness and healthcare sessions. It has been so well-received that it is set to be a permanent feature. At our plant at Bodaczow, Poland, regular Health at Work days give employees the opportunity to refresh their understanding of emergency procedures at the plant and improve their personal health awareness. The training covers a range of topics including operating fire extinguishers and smoke chambers, first aid training and how to administer CPR. Health checks that test blood pressure, sugar content, cholesterol and body mass index are also available, enabling employees to become more aware of their health and any concerns that may need further investigation. 14 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Using technology to track health and safety Locations around the world are using information technology to promote training, audit health and safety programmes and track compliance. At Viterra North America a new programme is being used to store training records. It houses the online training available to the employees and records all training undertaken. This means employees and managers can easily see what training is required to ensure compliance to laws, regulations and company requirements. Employees can also see what training is available in different regions, while managers can track and schedule training quickly and easily. Across Europe, Australia and New Zealand, we are using an inspection app to create health, safety and environmental checklists and manage safety and environmental audits. The easy to use software on mobiles and tablets allows the collection of consistent data, Safety training for standardising of operations and real time data capture and reporting. non-operational In Australia and New Zealand, the business has been using the app employees for many years to manage safety and environmental audits and in Safety training has been underway 2019, started using it for regular dust inspections across our grain across the whole company globally storage sites. Tablets were rolled out across every site and staff for non-operational employees who trained to undertake the inspections. The business has benefited visit our sites and other operational from the electronic data capture, which reduces duplication and locations. allows photos to be taken and immediately uploaded. Supervisors can easily identify issues and take corrective action. Data is presented The business has developed this on a dashboard and easily segmented across groups and regions to training to ensure that all employees analyse for compliance, trends and performance. involved in site visits are made aware of potential risks and know to In 2019, our Hungarian crush and extraction plant at Fokto introduced always follow life-saving behaviours. new software for managing the inspection programme for explosionIt is critical that our office-based proof equipment and cataloguing the results. It is proving a solid and employees are trained and aware of reliable system for managing one of our catastrophic hazards. risks and what to look for when they Thousands of pieces of equipment are required to be periodically are outside of their normal working safety-checked to ensure they will continue to operate safely in a environment. potentially explosive environment. The new software replaces During sessions, employees looked the previous spreadsheet system and serves as a register of the at different work environments to explosion-proof equipment as well as a document filing system to identify potential hazards and the store all explosion prevention documents, including management steps they can take to stay safe plans and qualifications. when away from the office. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 15 Environment We aim to minimise our impact on the environment wherever we operate and to improve environmental sustainability right along our supply chain. Why it matters Our approach As the world’s population grows We work to improve our environmental This policy defines how to mitigate, and becomes richer there is a rising performance year on year, reducing our manage or eliminate environmental demand for food and agricultural impact on the external environment risk; and determines environmental commodities, which puts pressure and communities where we operate, plans and management systems. on the environment through those we source from and those where We have four environmental goals: increased use of land, fertilisers, we supply our commodities. energy and water. This has an • contribute to sustainable We show our leadership through impact on communities, agriculture, supply chains continuous monitoring of our impact biodiversity and health. • eliminate deforestation in our and collaborate with leaders in our value chains and look after As one of the world’s largest industry and external organisations. valuable and protected areas marketers of food and animal Each of our assets manages its own • reduce emissions and energy feed, we play an important role environmental plans in line with our consumption in global commodity markets environmental policy, which is based • minimise impact on water. and can contribute to the on global and industry standards. environmental sustainability of agricultural production and of food supply worldwide. Our licence to Alignment to 2 6 12 13 15 17 operate depends on our effective UN Sustainable management of environmental Development Goals challenges. 16 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Commitment to improve global performance We have committed to improve our global performance on four environmental key performance indicators at processing facilities and farms under our operational control. In 2019, we added Moinhos Cruzeiro do Sul in Brazil to our consolidated processing companies. We set a target to improve our performance by 5% over the next five years until 2023, using our results in 2018 as the base year. Some of our five-year targets have been met by our 2019 results. Weather and asset utilisation contributed to our performance in 2019; processing volumes increased and we achieved improved environmental performance per tonne processed. Our focus will be on continued long term structural improvements to maintain these results. 6.7% 13.1% 2.6% 15.7% Performance in 2019 compared to 2018 reduction in reduction in increase in share reduction in total energy total GHG of renewable total water consumption emissions energy withdrawal Our performance in 2019 Sustainable supply chains Argentinian soy Energy consumption We take a risk-based approach 92+% originating from and GHG emissions when sourcing commodities from risk-free areas We achieved improved energy regions that may have a higher risk of consumption and GHG emissions per In Argentina, for many years over unsustainable practices. tonne processed. Our ongoing focus 90% of our soy has been sourced from There are continued concerns over will be on structural improvements to areas that bear no deforestation risk, deforestation relating to the soybean achieve these results beyond volume from states outside the Argentine supply chain, especially in the Amazon fluctuations. Gran Chaco. We aim to certify a larger and Cerrado regions of Brazil and share of our soy originating from The share of renewably sourced in Gran Chaco, Argentina. Glencore South America as deforestation free. energy consumed in our processing Agriculture works with both producers assets has increased from 72% to 74% and our customers to ensure that of total energy consumption. The 24,246 Better Cotton Initiative increasing global demand is not met tonnes majority of renewable energy comes (BCI) certified cotton at a cost to the environment. from our own biomass-to-energy In the Amazon, we follow the Amazon systems in South America and Europe Our goal is to continually increase our Soy Moratorium and have successfully and we continue to implement similar volume of cotton traded under the passed the annual audit in 2019. solutions across the business when BCI or Cotton Made in Africa (CMiA) Since the start of the Moratorium in opportunities arise. certification programmes. Due to the 2006, soybean production has been nature of the cotton supply chain, Water extraction contributing significantly less to our direct involvement with growers Amazon deforestation. is limited and visibility into their Water extraction includes all water production practices, particularly in taken from basin and river systems Cerrado soy sourced across our processing and farming the case of small-scale producers in 60.4% direct from farmers activities. the developing world, is constrained. (2018: 43%) Nevertheless, we seek to work with Fluctuations are driven by local In Cerrado, our first step has been to producers, ginners and other industry conditions such as rainfall and increase our direct sourcing of soy participants to encourage greater ambient temperatures and by from known farms. Using satellite participation. processing efficiency. We do not information, we can observe if the In 2019, 24,246 tonnes of our invoiced extract any water at our facilities in expansion of the farm occurs illegally cotton was BCI certified, which water scarce areas, as indicated by and block any possible purchases included cotton from West Africa, Aqueduct platform from the World from those areas. Collective industryBrazil and, for the first time, the US. In Resource Institute. wide efforts focus on landscaping, addition, we continue to trade niche Several facilities have implemented value chain dialogues and yield volumes of organic cotton from India. water-saving programmes to improvement. ensure optimal use and to strive for PKE from RSPO certified reductions where possible. 82% palm oil producers and RSPO members Our sources of palm kernel expeller (PKE) rely mostly on Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified suppliers – over 80% of supplies come from RSPO certified palm oil producers and RSPO members. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 17 Native vegetation restoration Glencore Agriculture, through our Brazilian operation Glencane Bioenergia, which owns the sugarcane plants Rio Vermelho and Nova Unialco, is conducting many projects to restore deforested areas near its operations. These projects protect watercourses from human activity, help to repair the impact in this region and recover External certification of assets fauna and flora. The International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) At Rio Vermelho, we have recovered system is a global certification system which covers the entire 155 hectares of land on the margins of supply chain for all types of biobased feedstocks and renewables watercourses or springs, which has been and aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, protect natural planted with nearly 300,000 seedlings. biospheres and encourage the sustainable use of land. It has to be completed by all producers selling produce within Europe and Recovery began in 2007; however, when around the world. we took over the handling of those areas in 2011, up to 90% of what had been done We are continuing to achieve certification within our business previously, had been lost due to lack of and improve our processes. More than 80% of our assets have an maintenance. externally verified quality management system, including ISCC. The reforested areas are in a region In 2019, Kolos, one of our crush facilities in Ukraine, achieved where the natural resources had been ISCC certification, enabling it to supply crude sunflower oil as overexploited up to the 20th century. sustainable raw material for the production of biodiesel. To remedy this loss the 2012 Brazilian To meet the standard, the facility developed a way of verifying Forest Code states that 20% of properties the amount of greenhouse gas emissions produced during located in the Atlantic Forest biome must the production process, taking into account all electricity and be preserved, recovered or compensated chemical use, wastewater treatment and other relevant factors. with similar fauna and flora in regions with remnants of native vegetation in The calculation was audited and approved by an independent the same biome. inspection, verification, testing and certification company. Through projects to recover degraded Our Hungarian office has simplified the ISCC certification process areas and by seeking sustainable solutions by introducing software for partners to complete online and for our operations, we are committed to upload the relevant documents. The application is then reviewed preserving the balance of the environment. by Glencore Agriculture and passed to the ISCC for certification. The new system has sped up approvals and partners are reporting faster transactions as a result. 18 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Solar power trial At our Grassy Lake Elevator, Alberta, Canada, we are installing solar panels to produce the 500 megawatt hours annual power usage at the facility, with the help of a rebate from the provincial government. The solar project aims to achieve net-zero annual electricity usage at the site from environmentally friendly and sustainable energy sources. The facility Sourcing sustainable soybeans will remain tied into the provincial electricity grid Glencore Agriculture has published its first two reports and during hours when the panels are generating on the traceability of its soy supply chains in Brazil, after more electricity than the facility needs, the excess signing up to the Soft Commodities Forum (SCF) in electricity will feed back to the grid. During hours February 2019. when the panels are generating less than the facility requirements, additional power from the grid will The reports include information on the percentage of soy supplement any generation from the panels. within the 25 priority municipalities in the Cerrado region that is sourced directly from producers and indirectly from third parties. This traceability is a critical success factor to identify possible land-use challenges and engage producers in ways to promote sustainable soy production. The SCF expects that the rate of native vegetation conversion will reduce in the targeted municipalities as a result Renewable energy partnership of concerted action and the adoption of improved sustainable land management practices. The SCF Viterra North America is working with renewable members will work together to develop targeted energy producer DP Energy and the provincial interventions to support sustainable intensification government to develop two solar projects on Viterra and tackle native vegetation conversion in the priority land in Calgary, Alberta. This project puts to use 320 municipalities, alongside and in collaboration with acres of land which would otherwise have limited relevant local stakeholders. development potential. When it is fully up and running the project will contribute 62 megawatts of energy – Glencore Agriculture has focused on engaging with key enough to power 14,000 homes – to Alberta’s target of stakeholders at either end of the supply chain – from sourcing 30% of the province’s electricity supply from producers to end customers. Mutual understanding of renewables by 2030. the challenges each of our stakeholders face is vital to create cooperation, to implement a successful strategy and ultimately to achieve progress. Through our membership of the SCF we aim to ensure increasing demand is met by higher crop yields, landscaping decisions and efficient supply chains rather than using a greater area of land for cultivation, particularly the conversion of valuable conservation areas. The reports can be read at glencoreagriculture.com/ Sustainability/Our-approach Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 19 Community We support the sustainable, long-term development of the local communities in which we operate. Why it matters Our performance We are a major employer in many efficiently to provide timely delivery in 2019 of the areas where we operate and of products and maintain our high We have continued to operate as a have a responsibility for the health, standards of quality and food safety to responsible corporate citizen and prosperity and sustainability of those meet the needs of customers. worked constructively with a range communities. of stakeholders at a local, regional, Our operations also bring social We also play a key role in feeding benefits to local communities national and international level. people and animals around the through donations, sponsorship We have supported many initiatives in world and ensuring the security of and fundraising activities and the the communities where we operate. the food supply is vital. expertise and support of our staff Across the business, total reported who volunteer their time. We support community investment was US$2.9 Our approach many local initiatives and projects that million, most of which supports contribute positively to the wellbeing education and health initiatives with We contribute to the communities of the local communities surrounding each region having discretion to where we operate – by employing our operations and offices. contribute to activities in their local people, purchasing commodities, We aim to deal openly, transparently communities. This contribution may goods and services, paying taxes – and inclusively with our communities include donations, sponsorships, and through continued investment in and stakeholders, listening to and donation of goods and in-kind support. our infrastructure. This contributes to working with anyone impacted by The impacts of our community the success of local businesses our operations. activities are measured locally. and economies. Our supply chains are considered essential services to transport food and 2 8 12 17 Alignment to UN Sustainable feed products for communities around Development Goals the world. We operate reliably and 20 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Human rights We are committed to upholding human rights, wherever in the world we work. Why it matters Our performance in 2019 We respect the dignity, liberty and equality of everyone We published our first Modern Slavery Statement in 2019, we work with and of all those in the communities where reporting on activities in 2018 and as part of our ongoing we operate. commitment to preventing the violation of human rights in our operations and supply chains. Our approach We had no reported human rights breaches in 2019. Our approach is aligned to Glencore’s human rights policy, We had 68 concerns raised to us through the Raising code of conduct and global anti-corruption policy. We also Concerns platform which are investigated through take part in and benefit from Glencore’s Raising Concerns our compliance team. There were a further 41 minor programme and compliance e-learning programme. community complaints, a majority of which related to We evidence our commitment through our participation dust and odour. We take all complaints seriously and seek in international conventions, including the United Nations to minimise any impacts of our operations. Global Compact, a set of principles covering human rights, We are continuing to work with offices and assets across labour, environment and anti-corruption and the standards the business to ensure they have appropriate grievance set out by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). mechanisms and reporting processes in place. We do not tolerate any form of workplace discrimination, harassment or physical assault, or any form of child, forced, Alignment to 5 8 or compulsory labour. We seek to reflect the diversity of UN Sustainable the communities in which we operate in our workforce. Development Goals We value and respect people from all backgrounds, and we have a culture of diversity and inclusion. This includes – but is not limited to – nationality, cultural identity, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, gender and age. We respect the rights of our employees and contractors, including the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Throughout our operations, we seek to avoid complicity in human rights abuses, and to uphold relevant international standards. We have grievance mechanisms in place which can be used by our stakeholders. These include the Raising Concerns programme as well as local systems at our operations. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 21 Supporting young people at risk Glencore Agriculture has signed up as a platinum member of the On the Right Track Program (Programa Na Mão Certa), an initiative by Childhood Brazil which aims to Helping communities through art unite governments, companies, and thirdsector organisations in promoting rights Viterra grain silos in South Australia are being turned into and protecting children and adolescents canvases for dramatic artworks that are helping to boost tourism against sexual violence, prevalent on Brazil's and community pride in rural towns. highway network. In 2019 we sponsored the painting of silos in Waikerie, Karoonda The networks that benefit from child and, most recently, in Cowell, where New Zealand/Australian and adolescent sexual exploitation often artist Austin ‘NITSUA’ Moncrieff worked with the Franklin operate along Brazil’s federal highways, Harbour Community Development Group to paint the local silos. where children and young people are at The mural features local man Lionel Deer and one of his many risk from international drug and human pet camels as well as a local Port Lincoln parrot and a nearby trafficking gangs. The On the Right Track farmhouse ruin. programme develops campaigns to We also worked with projection art organisation Illuminart on educate truck drivers about the issue and their ‘Travelling Light’ tour of South Australia, which visited 17 to enable them to safeguard young people towns projecting on to seven of our silos along the way. in danger. Advertising, informative guides, presentational workshops and action Since 2017, the seven silo art projects we have supported in guidelines are all used to raise awareness South Australia have all won awards for the benefits they have among drivers and communities. brought to local communities. We are committed to upholding the rights of children and adolescents. Our platinum-level support for On the Right Track is a public declaration that we understand our social responsibility for the development and the wellbeing of children and adolescents. Raising concerns To ensure we maintain high standards of human rights, we have empowered all our people to report any situation that appears to breach our human rights policies to our Raising Concerns programme. This allows the reporting of any unresolved concerns, anonymously if necessary, and is publicised widely across all our work sites. Nobody working for Glencore Agriculture suffers demotion, penalty or any other disciplinary action for raising a concern in good faith. 22 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Modern slavery We have zero tolerance towards any form of forced labour, child labour, physical assault or harassment within our workplace. We care greatly about our performance in health and safety, compliance, environment and human rights, and comply as a minimum with standards set by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) across all our assets and offices. All our employees receive training in compliance and human rights, and are encouraged to raise any concerns via our Raising Concerns Inspiring young people programme. Over several years, our employees in Poland have built a relationship with the We do not accept modern slavery practices in any of our business local Siedliszcze orphanage. They first activities, from our third parties, or our suppliers. We work with a vast began donating Christmas presents to number of suppliers and third parties, some of which are located children at the orphanage a few years in remote and rural locations where there is a lack of regulation to ago – the children would write to Santa uphold human rights among small, local businesses. and employees would do their best to We are working to introduce a supplier standard and due diligence fulfil their Christmas wishes. process into our future contracts with third parties. In 2019, our employees decided they could further help the young people by showing them the kind of career opportunities that might be available to them locally when they were ready to go to work. Together with the Bodaczow crushing Educating children out of poverty plant, Glencore Polska Sp. z o. o. invited a group of teenagers from For the last two years our business in India has supported a charity in the orphanage on a tour of the two Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, which educates children dwelling in slums, facilities, where they heard from people streets, construction sites and villages with the aim of removing in different departments about their abject poverty through the education and skilling of children. jobs and what it was like working for Based in the largest state in India, with one of the highest number our business. The tour was followed by of children working as labourers, and the lowest literacy rates in the lunch, during which our people talked country, the Sarthak Foundation has set up seven Yellow Rooms in to the children about their plans for the communities in Lucknow to provide quality education and life skills future and opportunities that can be and prepare children aged 3 to 18 to enrol in formal schooling. It also offered locally. has a 12-classroom rural village school. The charity started in 2013 for The hope is that through this event and a handful of children and today it provides education for over 1000 the conversations that took place, the young people. children will see a path through which if Our donations have assisted with digitising the charity’s classrooms, they work hard and are motivated they teachers’ salaries, uniforms and food for the children, ensuring would be rewarded in the future. exposure activities for children, preparing brighter children for professional careers, rent and course structure costs. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 23 Food and feed safety We aim to meet the highest standards in all our food and feed products. Why it matters We want the products and commodities we supply to We employ the best practice in quality control and food customers to be of the right quality, and safe for people and feed safety management in all our operations and for the environment – in line with evolving rules and and activities. These include: standards. Our approach to product quality helps to • Good Manufacturing Practice Feed Safety Assurance achieve this. • International Featured Standards We carry out wide ranging food safety and quality • ISO 22000 Food Safety Management management procedures so that customers can be • ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems confident that all our food and feed products meet the • Skal Biocontrole (organic products). highest international standards. Our approach Our performance in 2019 Our food and feed safety programmes were strictly As we manage the whole supply chain, we can ensure adhered to during 2019 which led to us achieving our most the products our customers receive meet their specific important goal – ensuring that the products we supply to requirements and are consistent, reliable and high quality. our customers and markets are safe. We had zero reported All products are tested for quality and food safety by serious food or feed safety incidents during the year. accredited authorities. Alignment to 3 12 UN Sustainable Development Goals 24 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Viterra Australia continues to invest in its food safety and quality Viterra Australia has invested in new chemical residue testing equipment as part of our focus on meeting end use customer demands and maintaining food safety and quality management standards. The investment is in response to changing customer needs and importing countries’ requirements. Countries are tightening their maximum residue limits and end use customers are becoming increasingly concerned with food safety and quality management standards. The equipment has been installed in Viterra’s purpose-built laboratory which HACCP educational programme was opened in 2018 and is enabling the As an active member of the Ukrainian Grain Association, business to continue to meet grower Glencore Agriculture Ukraine took part in a programme of and end use customers’ needs well into educational workshops to increase awareness of the Hazard the future. Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) programme Viterra previously outsourced chemical introduced by the Ukrainian government as it adapts its residue testing to an external laboratory, food safety system to European norms. which could take up to ten working The new system requires all food producers to identify days. The efficiency of being able to do any and all potential risks associated with their production this in our own laboratory, means we processes and facilities and take the necessary steps to save valuable time during peak season, minimise these risks. when the business is bringing in grain and needs to outturn it quickly while The programme aimed to increase awareness of the maintaining standards. HACCP, the potential threats to food and feed commodities and what the new system requires food businesses to do and when, as well as showing the competitive advantage that they would achieve by complying. Producers are now able to develop their own systems for improving food safety, and are in the process of doing so. Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 25 Biopetrol expands laboratory capability Our Biopetrol Rotterdam business has expanded its laboratory capability to detect traces of the chemical 3-monochloropropane diol (3-MCPD) in refined oil and glycerine to ensure we continue providing customers with the highest quality products. In recent years, there has been increasing concern about traces of the chemical and Glencore Agriculture Italy gains related substances in some processed Good Trading Practices certification foods, vegetable oils and refined glycerine, which are formed unintentionally Our business in Italy has achieved certification under the particularly during oil refining processes. Good Trading Practices (GTP) code, demonstrating our commitment to delivering safe food and feed products to our We are a leading supplier of the highest customers. It is the most recent part of Glencore Agriculture quality refined glycerin in Europe. In order to be certified under the code and adds to the growing list of to continue to guarantee that quality regions which have achieved an equivalent type of food and standard to our customers in the food, feed safety certification. pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries, our Biopetrol Rotterdam business has GTP is a certification system designed to ensure safe food expanded its laboratory capabilities with and feed products are supplied to the market in Europe. One our own equipment capable of detecting of its most important principles is application of the HACCP even minor traces in both refined oil and system to ensure that hazards which may be present in food glycerin. and feed products are properly considered and mitigated. The quality of raw materials and final To achieve certification, Glencore Agriculture Italy reviewed products can now be monitored and its quality management system, ensured all requirements assured in a timely manner. of the GTP code were implemented, and successfully completed a certification audit. The certification is valid for three years and an independent auditing body will perform a yearly verification audit to ensure our business practices meet customer requirements. 26 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Assurance report of the independent auditor Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the management board of Glencore Agriculture B.V. Our conclusion We have performed a limited assurance engagement on selected indicators for the years 2018 and 2019 in the sustainability report for the year 2019 of Glencore Agriculture B.V. at Rotterdam (hereinafter: Glencore Agri). Based on our procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected indicators are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the section Reporting criteria. The selected indicators are included in the overview on page 30 of the sustainability report and consist of: • Energy use • Percentage renewable energy • CO2 emissions • Water input per ton processed • TRIFR • DISR Basis for our conclusion We have performed our limited assurance engagement on the selected indicators in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3000A ‘’Assurance-opdrachten anders dan opdrachten tot controle of beoordeling van historische financiële informatie (attest-opdrachten)’’ (Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information (attestation engagements)). Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section Our responsibilities for the assurance engagement on the selected indicators. We are independent of Glencore Agri in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Reporting criteria The selected indicators need to be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. Glencore Agri is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the selected indicators are the reporting criteria developed by Glencore Agri and are disclosed on page 30 of the sustainability report. The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure the selected indicators allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. Limitations to the scope of our assurance engagement Our assurance engagement is restricted to the selected indicators. We have not performed assurance procedures on any other information as included in the sustainability report. References to external sources or websites are not part of our assurance engagement on the selected indicators. We therefore do not provide assurance on this information. Responsibilities of the management board for the selected indicators The management board is responsible for the preparation of reliable and adequate selected indicators in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the section Reporting criteria. In this context, the management board is responsible for the identification of the intended users and the criteria being applicable for their purposes. The choices made by the management board regarding the scope of the selected indicators and the reporting policy are summarized on page 30 of the sustainability report. The management board is also responsible for such internal control as the management board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the selected indicators that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Our responsibilities for the assurance engagement on the selected indicators Our responsibility is to plan and perform the limited assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement. We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagement, in accordance with the Dutch assurance standards, ethical requirements and independence requirements. The procedures of our limited assurance engagement included amongst others: • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of the sector, insight into relevant social themes and issues, relevant laws and regulations and the characteristics of the company as far as relevant to the selected indicators • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures on the selected indicators. This includes the evaluation of the reasonableness of estimates made by the management board • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the selected indicators, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our assurance engagement • Identifying areas of the selected indicators with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material misstatements, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the selected indicators responsive to this risk analysis. These further assurance procedures consisted amongst others of: • Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for the strategy, policy and results relating to the selected indicators • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the selected indicators • Determining the nature and extent of the assurance procedures for the group components and locations. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of these components are decisive. Based thereon we selected the components to perform additional procedures on. These procedures are aimed at, on a local level, validating source data and evaluating the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures • Obtaining assurance information that the selected indicators reconcile with underlying records of the company • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation • Performing an analytical review of the data and trends • Evaluating the consistency of the selected indicators with the information in the sustainability report which is not included in the scope of our assurance engagement We communicate with the management board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance engagement and significant findings that we identify during our assurance engagement. Rotterdam, 13 July 2020 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP signed by Jan Niewold Key performance indicators (KPIs) Value Value Rel. KPI Definition Formula 2018 2019 change TRIFR The total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) excluding occupational diseases is the sum of: TRIFR = Total number 1. employee medical treatment injuries (MTIs) of recordable incidents 2. employee restricted work injuries (RWIs) 9.68 7.07 -27.0% x 1,000,000 / total hours 3. employee lost time injuries (LTIs) worked 4. fatalities in relation to the total hours worked. DISR The disabling injury severity rate (DISR) is the number of days lost for DISR = Number of days LTIs and restricted for RWIs in relation to the total hours worked. lost or restricted x 204.1 175.4 -14.1% 1,000,000 / total hours worked in a year Total hours Sum of all hours worked during period by employees and contractors worked during on-premises working hours as well as during company-organised hours / year transportation to/from site. Total energy Total energy is the sum of all direct and indirect energy from all sources, MJ / mt 2221.6 2071.9 -6.7% consumption both renewable and non-renewable, related to total tonnes processed. processed Share of The share of renewable energy includes consumption of biomass, renewable energy from geothermic and generated electricity from solar, wind MJ renewable / 72.2% 74.1% + 2.6% energy and hydro and the electricity or heat purchased from these renewable MJ total [%] sources. This number is a percentage of our total energy consumption. Total water Total water withdrawal is the sum of all water drawn from surface Volume (m3) of all withdrawal water, groundwater, seawater, drinking water or a third party for any sources per metric 16.3 13.8 -15.7% use, related to total tonnes processed. ton processed Total GHG Total Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions of our processing assets expressed emissions in kg CO2eq per mt processed. All sources of energy consumed at our sites are included and according to the table below. GHG monitored are CO2, CH4 and NOx. Fuel consumed by company cars are not included in Scope 1. For Scope 2 emissions the local grid emissions location-based method are applied as defined by IEA, NGA Australia, eGrid USA and Environment Canada. Emission are calculated as per the GHG Protocol, a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised edition). Fossil fuel Scope 1 emission factors kg CO2eq / 51.0 44.3 -13.1% mt processed Type of fuel Emission factors Unit Natural gas 56.27 g CO2e/MJ Liquefied petroleum gas 63.27 g CO2e/MJ Petrol/gasoline 69.29 g CO2e/MJ Diesel, incl. light fuel oil 74.07 g CO2e/MJ Coal 98.98 g CO2e/MJ Total tonnes Total weight of processed raw materials including weight of further processed downstream processed intermediary products of assets under our mt (metric tonne) operational control. Applied method All health and safety incidents notified are recorded and included in of registration the calculation of the indicator. Employee hours worked are registered by time registration, contractual hours or estimated. Contractor hours are registered by invoice, time registration or estimated (in order of preferred and applied method when available). Environmental data is registered (in order of preferred and applied method) by third party invoice, internal measurement, calculation or estimation. Period Year of report from 1 January to 31 December. Calendar years 2018 and 2019 In scope All processing assets under our operational control during the period. For safety indicators (TRIFR and DISR) all storage and handling facilities are also included. As of 2019, all marketing offices are included as well. 30 Glencore Agriculture Sustainability Report 2019 Disclaimer This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, its legal or regulatory obligations, Glencore Agriculture is not under any 'forward-looking statements' which are prospective in nature. These obligation and Glencore Agriculture and its affiliates expressly disclaim forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forwardany intention, obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forwardlooking terminology, or the negative thereof such as 'outlook', 'plans', looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 'expects' or 'does not expect', 'is expected', 'continues', 'assumes', 'is events or otherwise. This document shall not, under any circumstances, subject to', 'budget', 'scheduled', 'estimates', 'aims', 'forecasts', 'risks', create any implication that there has been no change in the business or 'intends', 'positioned', 'predicts', 'anticipates' or 'does not anticipate', or affairs of Glencore Agriculture since the date of this document or that the 'believes', or variations of such words or comparable terminology and information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results 'may', 'could', its date. 'should', 'shall', 'would', 'might' or 'will' be taken, occur or be achieved. No statement in this document is intended as a profit forecast or a profit Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent risks estimate. This document does not constitute or form part of any offer and uncertainties surrounding future expectations. Forward-looking or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase statements are not based on historical facts, but rather on current or subscribe for any securities. The making of this document does not predictions, expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, constitute a recommendation regarding any securities. intentions and projections about future events, results of operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions of strategy. By their nature, The companies in which Glencore Agriculture Ltd. directly and indirectly forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and has an interest are separate and distinct legal entities. In this document, uncertainties, many of which are beyond Glencore Agriculture’s control. 'Glencore Agriculture', 'the Group' and 'Group' are used for convenience Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance only where references are made to Glencore Agriculture Ltd. and its and may and often do differ materially from actual results. Neither subsidiaries in general. These collective expressions are used for ease Glencore Agriculture nor any of its associates or directors, officers or of reference only and do not imply any other relationship between the advisers, provides any representation, assurance or guarantee that the companies. Likewise, the words 'we', 'us' and 'our' are also used to refer occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any forward-looking collectively to members of the Group or to those who work for them. statements in this document will actually occur. You are cautioned not These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which only identifying the particular company or companies. speak as of the date of this document. Other than in accordance with Contact Blaak 31, 3011 GA Rotterdam, Netherlands PO Box 1120, 3000 BC Rotterdam T: +31 10 4044 400 F: +31 10 4129 635 contact.agriculture@glencore.com glencoreagriculture.com
