Helvetia Group helvetia.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2019. Contents 3 Preamble 5 Helvetia Group 7 Our focus 8 Our values 9 CR Strategy 20.20 19 How we work 24 CR progress 25 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business 35 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues sustainable management 45 Attractive employer – for and with our employees 55 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally 65 Overview of our key figures 66 Key figures employees 69 Key figures environment 73 Notes 74 About this report 75 GRI Content Index 80 Index on non-financial information 86 Legal notice 87 Independent assurance report Information marked with this symbol has been This PDF is externally reviewed by Ernst & Young AG. interactive Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Preamble﻿ 3 Preamble Dear Readers, The strength of a company’s corporate responsibility (CR) is measured by how GRI 102-14 well they interact with interest groups and communities on both a local and a global level. This is what enables them to act as partners for the development and implementation of solutions. International institutions, voluntary standards, governments, cities and communities all play a key role in this. They bring people together, develop networks and create connections that extend beyond geographical and professional borders. After all, economic, environmental and social challenges are all closely interwoven. This has become very evident during the current coronavirus pandemic. These times of crisis confirm just how important integration between our different stakeholder groups is. Only a sustainable, inclusive economic and value system can guarantee the necessary flexibility and the societal unity required to fight this virus effectively. We have seen how the emergency measures that have been implemented not only serve to protect employees, customers and business partners, but are also having a positive impact in many other areas such as climate change. At Helvetia, as at many other companies, we cannot afford for the coronavirus to become the one and only priority, however. Our ESG efforts cannot be put on hold, even during this times of crisis. Sustainability only truly works when theoretical considerations become concrete actions. In 2019 at Helvetia, these included the introduction of a voluntary climate protection contribution for motor vehicles, the offer of solutions that help our customers keep track of their water usage, the resolute development of our roadmap for sustainable investments, signing the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and our commitment to combatting the effects of climate change. ‘We are working continually Our 2020 CR strategy aims to integrate ESG criteria across all company levels. In our third Corporate Responsibility Report, you can read about where we to put our corporate have succeeded and where we have been less successful. The aim of this report responsibility is to let readers know how we are keeping our corporate responsibility activities into practice and up to date. develop it further.’ Best regards, Doris Russi Philipp Gmür Chairwoman of the Board of Directors Group CEO Helvetia Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Preamble﻿ 4 ‘The precautionary principle is the foundation of our corporate policy, and sustainability plays a key role in every decision we make.’ Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Helvetia Group﻿ 5 Helvetia Group Overview Helvetia is a Swiss insurance group with international operations. It provides services for GRI 1  02-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 more than 5 million customers with 6,829 full-time employees. Helvetia Holding AG, with its registered office in St.Gallen, is a Swiss limited company listed on the Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX). The main activities of Helvetia are to be found in the business activities Non-Life and Life and to a lesser extent in the reinsurance business. Helvetia subdivides its business activi­ ties into the three market areas Switzerland, Europe and Specialty Markets. The market area Europe combines the country markets Germany, Austria, Spain and Italy. In the Specialty Markets area, Helvetia provides tailor-made cover in the areas of marine/transport, art and technical insurance. In addition to Switzerland and France, Helvetia is also present in Liechtenstein, Miami, Singapore and Malaysia. You can find more detailed information on our business and our products in our company brochure 2019. Business development in 2019 For the year under review, Helvetia recorded a business result with a profit of CHF 538.1 million. Total business volume increased by 4.2 per cent in the original currency to CHF 9,454.1 million. The Swiss domestic market accounted for 54 per cent of this, the other European countries for 33 per cent and the Specialty Market area for 13 per cent. In the Life business, business volumes rose by 2.2 per cent at constant exchange rates. The Non-Life business makes up 49 per cent of the business volume of Helvetia and registered premium growth of 6.4 per cent at constant exchange rates. The net combined ratio was 92.3 per cent. Since the 2018 financial year, Helvetia has reported its results according to IFRS. Please consult the financial report for more details. see Financial report, p. 51 ff. ‘We are signatories and members of global sustainability initiatives that inform our actions.’ Our focus 8 Our values 8 Over 160 years of trust, drive and enthusiasm 8 Fit for the future: helvetia 20.20 9 CR Strategy 20.20 9 Strategic starting points and goals by 2020 14 Our material topics 18 Contribution to sustainable development 19 How we work 19 CR management 20 Stakeholder commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 8 Our values Over 160 years of trust, drive and enthusiasm In the course of over 160 years, Helvetia has grown from its beginnings as the ‘General Insu­ rance Company Helvetia’ in 1858 to an insurance group with international operations. Today, as then, we are a reliable partner for our customers, employees and business partners. Our GRI 102-16 mission and values are laid down in our Company policy. They apply to all country markets. We also live our corporate values ‘trust’, ‘drive’ and ‘enthusiasm’ in our commitment to corporate responsibility (CR). −−Trust: We act honestly and responsibly and stand for long-term, fair and balanced partnerships. In doing so, we pursue the ambition of being a trustworthy company and being perceived as such. −−Drive: We think in a way that is modern and future oriented. We operate in a dynamic global environment, characterised by uncertainties, with new methods and innovative solutions. Thanks to the anchoring of our CR commitment in our core business, as a sustainable insurance provider we respond to global challenges such as climate change, the observance of human rights, fair working conditions and the preservation of the natural environment. −−Enthusiasm: We take an open, interested and committed approach to our environment. In all country markets, we see ourselves as a committed location partner and an attractive employer that can rely on the joy and enthusiasm of its employees. Fit for the future: helvetia 20.20 The insurance business is currently confronted with major challenges: the capital markets are characterised by a long-lasting low-interest phase, which puts insurance companies in a difVideo link ficult position. More and more national and international regulations are expected, especially in the fields of corporate governance, consumer protection and corporate responsibility (CR). Client structure and client expectations are changing in step with demographic change. Finally, digitisation is affecting the entire value chain of insurance. On the one hand, this provides opportunities, such as more efficient processes, the development of new and individualised insurance solutions, and the opening-up of new distribution channels. On the other hand, we also have to face new challenges. For example, the demands on distribution are changing, data security is playing an increasingly important role, and the trend to individualisation has put the solidarity principle of the insured into question. Moreover, due to the market launch of providers with purely digital business models, the competitive pressure is increasing. As a reaction to this and other challenges, we developed the strategy helvetia 20.20 for the Helvetia Group. As a result, we will concentrate even more on our customers in the years to s ee Company brochure, p. 18 ff. come and will become more innovative, digital and agile as a company. This orientation is also expressed by our new Group-wide brand positioning under the motto ‘simple. clear. helvetia’: we provide clear and simple solutions for our customers. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 9 CR Strategy 20.20 With the conclusion of our first CR programme at the end of 2015 and based on the helvetia GRI 102-46 20.20 strategy, we reviewed our CR commitment at the level of the Helvetia Group four years ago and developed it further. For this purpose, we tested the major CR themes that had already been identified in 2012 in relation to their current relevance and overhauled the strategic approach points and goals. The CR Strategy 20.20 supports the goals of the helvetia 20.20 strategy as a functional strategy. It was approved by the Executive Management of the Helvetia Group in June 2016 and constitutes the framework for the CR commitment of the country markets. With it, we hope to achieve four CR ambitions: −−As a provider of ‘sustainable insurance’, we make provision for an attractive product range to secure environmentally friendly technologies and maintain service-oriented dealings with our customers as partners. −−As a ‘trustworthy company’, we are reducing our CO2 emissions and conduct business cautiously and with respect for our stakeholders. −−As an ‘attractive employer’, we take care of our employees and offer them interesting opportunities to harmonise their professional career with their personal objectives. −−As a ‘committed location partner’, we play an active role in the preservation and reforesting of protection forests and support social projects in our area. Strategic starting points and goals by 2020 Based on these ambitions, the CR Strategy 20.20 defines our top CR topics, starting points and goals for the years 2016 to 2020. They apply to the entire Helvetia Group. During this period, the main aims for the strategy are the following: 1. Increased integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in the core business 2. Implementation of measures to reduce CO2 emissions 3. Alignment with CR industry standards and compliance with national and international regulation on CR 4. Expansion of the stakeholder communication and reinforcement of the management system The targets deduced are in part quantitative and in part qualitative and thereby reflect the ‘degree of maturity’ of our CR efforts. In all areas, we have achieved good progress in recent years and set ourselves individual additional and supplementary targets. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 10 Objectives CR Strategy 20.20 Ambitions and goals for Trend Expected impact/motivation 2019 developments and progress 2020 Sustainable insurance ESG aspects have −− Offering new products and investment New see  also p. 25, been integrated in the protection for new, energy-efficient −− E-scooter insurance (DE) Sustainable core business technologies −− CO2 climate protection contribution (CH) insurance offering −− Opening up new customer groups −− Risk analysis/sensitisation of Helvetia −− Indirect contribution to reducing negative customers on the topic of water consump also p. 32, see effects on the environment and society tion (DE) Customer −− Promotion of a more inclusive and lower −− Group-wide information security awareexpectations and carbon economy ness campaign protection −− Observing customer interests and handl­ ing the data and information entrusted Ongoing carefully −− 32 per cent increase in premium volumes for products with additional environmental/social benefits −− Successful activities by the arbitration body (CH) −− No threat to sensitive customer interests −− No serious data protection incidents, no proceedings regarding violations of data protection regulations ESG criteria given −− More comprehensive risk evaluation for New see  also p. 28, systematic considerafinancial and real estate investments by ad­ −− Implementation of the ESG policy and the Sustainable tion in the investment ding non-financial information and reducing Responsible Investment Roadmap 2025 by investments process risks in the investment portfolio the Board of Directors −− Contribution to observance of fundamental −− Signing the PRI (UN Principles for Responsihuman rights, labour rights and environmenble Investment) tal standards −− Participation in the climate compatibility −− Reduction of the portfolio footprint test for financial institutions by SBTI (Science −− Compliance with international CR stan­ Based Target Initiative) dards, conventions and laws −− Introduction of an ESG investment strategy −− Observance of the fiduciary obligation visby the Helvetia employee pension fund (CH) à-vis the insured to protect customer funds Ongoing −− ESG quality (A) confirmed for financial investments −− Reduction of investments with a high ESG risk to 1.5 per cent −− Controversy screening for financial investments −− Carbon footprint measurement for financial investments Trustworthy company Ensuring −− ESG risk management as an additional New s ee also p. 35, sustainable company long-term dimension and contribution to −− Verification of ESG risk governance in Corporate management the avoidance of reputational risks order to further hone the management of Governance −− Providing an operational framework ESG risks for employees −− Analysis of the development of CR hard s ee also p. 38, −− Establishing a fair and trustworthy relaand soft law Risk management tionship with relevant stakeholders −− CR Report filed with SIX (opt in) −− Transparency and feedback culture for −− Analysis of suitability of SDGs for regular CR strategy revision reporting −− Evaluation of our sustainability perfor−− Participation in the Focused Reporting mance in industry comparison project Ongoing −− Review of transactional ESG risks −− Carrying out a compulsory training programme on the Code of Compliance and compliance training sessions −− Participation in the Swiss Sustainable Finance, Swiss Insurance Association (SIA) and UNGC working groups −− Carrying out external stakeholder interviews −− Annual reporting (GRI, UNGC, CDP and PRI) = positive = neutral = negative Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 11 Ambitions and goals for Trend Expected impact/motivation 2019 developments and progress 2020 Environmental and −− Contribution to combating climate change New climate protection at −− Compensation of the negative effects of −− Participation in the UNGC Peer Learning see also p. 40, Sustainable Helvetia sites our business activities Group Climate Strategy procurement −− Implementation of the 2020 environmental −− Travel management sensitisation camand climate protection strategy with the paign aim of: −− 10 per cent reduction in absolute CO2 Ongoing emissions by 2020 −− Group-wide verification of environmental (compared with 2012) data −− 20 per cent reduction in CO2 per FTE −− Carrying out energy efficiency audits (compared with 2012) −− Exclusively using energy from renewable −− Maintaining CO2 neutrality sources −− 100 per cent renewable energy −− 10.8 per cent reduction in absolute CO2 −− Cost reductions for operation and mainteemissions nance of office real estate −− 34.8 per cent reduction in CO2 emissions −− Sensitisation of employees regarding per employee environmentally conscious behaviour −− Confirmation of CDP score ‘B’ −− Gentle handling of natural resources −− Neutralisation of unavoidable CO2 emis−− Promotion of a circular economy (waste sions and certification as a climate-neutral management) company ESG criteria given sys−− Compliance with voluntary commitments New tematic consideration in the procurement process −− Centralised purchasing see also p. 40, Sustainable in the procurement −− Contributing to goods, services and build−− Analysis of real estate procurement procurement process ings whose lifecycles meet high economic, environmental and social standards Ongoing −− An important contribution to the Sustaina−− Consideration of ESG aspects when ble Development Goals concluding supplier agreements −− Profitability, financial savings, avoidance of external costs and resource preservation Attractive employer Active promotion of −− A wider range of skills, perspectives and New a diverse workforce ways of thinking −− Equal opportunities campaign for the see also p. 45, Incentives and and dedication to −− Strengthening collaboration and a sense Swiss sales force benefits equal opportunities of belonging among employees −− Member of the Swiss gender equality −− Promoting tolerance network Advance −− Increasing the proportion of female −− Award for diversity and inclusion (IT) employees overall and in management −− DIVÖRSITY pilot project for blind applicapositions tions (AT) −− Reducing the fluctuation rate −− Strengthening the company image Ongoing −− ‘We Pay Fair’ certification from the University of St.Gallen (CH) −− The proportion of women in management positions remains at 19.9 per cent −− The proportion of women within the Helvetia Group remains at 36 per cent = positive = neutral = negative Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 12 Ambitions and goals for Trend Expected impact/motivation 2019 developments and progress 2020 Promoting well-be−− Supporting Helvetia’s agility and adaptNew ing and qualifying ability −− Renewal of certification as a ‘Friendly see also p. 45, Incentives and employees and −− Promoting innovation and productivity Work Space’ benefits managers −− Greater efficiency, dedication and satis−− New modules added to the leadership faction among employees training programme: ‘Leadership in times −− Improving the company’s external image of change’ and ‘Leadership in the age of by offering further training opportunities digitalisation’ −− Preparing for future activities and changes −− Rollout of the ‘&go’ employer campaign in the professional world −− Enabling employees to achieve their Ongoing personal goals −− Offering flexible working time models with ‘work smart’ −− An average of 28 hours of training per employee −− Regular employee performance evaluations −− 27 talent management conferences held −− Regular annual performance evaluations for over 70 per cent of employees −− Innovative training opportunities in the fields of agile methods and design thinking −− Specialist training, training in methodological and social skills, IT skills, compliance regulations, health and safety training and language lessons −− Various training formats available: classroom sessions, e-learning, webinars, individual training sessions for groups and individuals Helvetia employees −− Long-term success of Helvetia taking susNew see  also p. 52, can integrate sustaintainability aspects into account is ensured −− Introduction of the ‘green’ search engine Employee ability aspects in their −− Efficient deployment of employee knowlEcosia commitment work conduct edge and skills for environmental and/ −− Integration of sustainability issues into or social concerns in their immediate CEO communications workplace −− New projects for junior staff – Inspiration −− Make full use of energy-saving potential in Day and Climate Challenge (CH) the workplace −− Enhance motivation of employees to also Ongoing commit themselves to sustainability in their −− Regular employee updates on CR personal environment activities −− ‘Idea’ platform for discussing sustain­ ability concepts −− Members of the CR Advisory Board support employees in implementing the sustainability principles and guidelines −− CR presentation at the Helvetia Welcome Day for new employees (CH) Helvetia promotes −− Involvement of employees in the company New co-determination and −− Collaborative answers to new questions −− Rollout of new employee survey ‘Puls­ see also p. 52, Employee voluntary commitabout the company and work processes messer’ commitment ment by employees −− Safeguarding employee interests by −− Empowerment of junior staff – ‘Brilliants@ encouraging them to make use of their Helvetia’ project (CH) participation rights −− Productivity enhancements and stronger Ongoing ties of employees to our company −− Re-election of the personnel commission −− Efficient deployment of employee knowl(CH) edge and skills for environmental and/or −− ‘Idea’ platform for submitting and dis­ social concerns cussing employee suggestions −− Monitoring current developments in the area of corporate volunteering −− Granting Helvetia employees working time to engage in politics = positive = neutral = negative Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 13 Ambitions and goals for Trend Expected impact/motivation 2019 developments and progress 2020 Committed location partner Representation of in−− Commitment to cohesion in society New terests in a social and −− Promotion of economic/social de­ −− Supporting the ‘year of volunteering work’ see also p. 55, Public Policy political environment velopment and reinforcement of life (CH) and business area −− Participation in the ‘Tour de Suisse on −− Pursuing shared industry goals and policy Responsible Business’ by the Global management as a member of associations Compact Network Switzerland −− Contribution to risk awareness −− Supporting ceo4climate (CH) −− Supporting socio-political debates, e.g. on climate protection, social and job Ongoing market policies −− Information management, specialist and committee work as part of the Swiss Insurance Association (SIA) −− Monitoring and analysis of political debates and legislation initiatives −− Granting Helvetia employees working time to occupy political offices (CH) −− Maintaining relationships with key stakeholders and contact with municipal administrations at Helvetia locations −− Disclosure of political party financing (CH) Commitment to public −− Implementation of Group-wide projects in New see  also p. 58, welfare at Helvetia collaboration with Patria Genossenschaft −− National initiatives, e.g. ‘Puces de Mer’ Corporate sites −− Reinforcement of social cohesion (FR), ‘Telefono Donna’ (IT) Citizenship −− Promotion of children and adolescents −− Rollout of the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse −− Sensitisation for natural hazards foundation (DE) −− Support of (re-)foresting to protect against −− Rollout of protection forest projects in rockfall, avalanches and mudflows Spain −− Promotion of resistant forests in relation to −− Protection forest volunteering: planting climate change days for Helvetia employees (CH) Ongoing −− Erich Walser Generations Prize −− Furniture donations for Romania (CH) −− ‘B2Run’ donations for CompiSternli (CH) −− Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation: slight increase in donations compared to previous years (CH, AT, DE) −− Protection forest planting in Europe: 42 protection forest projects with a total of 430,000 trees −− Alpine Protection Forest Award Helvetia = positive = neutral = negative Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 14 Our material topics It is important to us that we get involved where our actions have the greatest impact on the GRI 102-46 environment and society and where we can make positive contributions. This is why we reviewed our material themes. As a first step in this direction, we identified 15 potentially relevant aspects for CR at Helvetia. To do so, we analysed national and international sustainability and industry standards, checked feedback on the previous materiality matrix and conducted a screening of our most important stakeholder groups and their concerns. In autumn 2015, we discussed these 15 aspects with 29 representatives of internal and external stakeholder groups and tested or specified them in relation to their current and medium-term relevance. The materiality matrix derived from this was finally approved for the entire Helvetia Group in June 2016 by the Executive Management. It applies to all country markets. Our material topics can be assigned to the four ambitions that constitute the objectives of GRI 102-47 the CR Strategy 20.20. The following diagram presents Helvetia’s current materiality matrix. It illustrates the assessment of the relevance of the individual topics from the point of view of our internal and external stakeholders. Topics were regarded as relevant if they were important for achieving the goals of the respective stakeholders, if Helvetia was assigned a certain effect regarding this aspect and/or if the stakeholders assumed that the topic would have a major influence on the environment or society. This is not yet associated with an objective impact assessment. It will replace the current relevance assessment in the next strategy period. To add to this assessment, in autumn 2019 we asked our external stakeholders about the positive and negative impact of our business activities in terms of their economic, environmental and social effects. In doing so, we hope to make a qualitative and, if possible, quantitative or monetary assessment of our social and environmental impact. This will help us to define measures that will contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 15 Materiality matrix GRI 102-47 Customer expectations and protection Highly relevant Risk management Employee commitment Promotion of employees External Stakeholders Sustainable investments Corporate Governance Relevant Public Policy Sustainable insurance offering Corporate Citizenship Less relevant Sustainable procurement Sustainable insurance Trustworthy company Attractive employer Committed location partner Less relevant Relevant Highly relevant Helvetia Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 16 The value chain and material corporate responsibility topics GRI 102-9 Across Helvetia’s value chain, including its core and support processes, positive and negative impacts are made on the environment, the economy and society, which we address in our CR topics. −−By protecting investments and providing personal protection, the provision of insurance products contributes to societal prosperity, economic development and competitiveness. −−By offering additional products and services with social or ecological benefits in addition to protection, Helvetia enables its customers and promotes sustainable behaviour on a small scale. −−Our systematic attention to ESG criteria in the investment process contributes to the preservation of fundamental human rights, labour rights and environmental standards, combats corruption and bribery and promotes sustainable corporate governance. −−Creating and maintaining jobs within Helvetia itself, at our partner companies and clients, and throughout our supply chain also has a social and macroeconomic dimension. −−Office buildings and business trips have an environmental impact in the areas of energy and resource consumption and CO2 emissions. −−Helvetia considers its participation in CR initiatives, its dialogue with stakeholders, its contact with the general public and the resulting contributions to business development, public welfare and political discourse to be positive. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 17 The value chain and material corporate responsibility topics GRI 102-9 Sustainable insurance Customer expectations Customer expectations Customer expectations Customer expectations Customer expectations Risk management offering and customer protection and customer protection and customer protection and customer protection and customer protection Development of market Distribution channel Acquisition, advisory Underwriting/risk Contract management Customer service Damage/claim management Investments services management services, sales assessment Receipt, verification and Focus on private individuals Procurement and processing Contract creation, invoicing Personal, reliable, skilled processing of damages/ Monitoring the investment Providing property Omni-channel approach and SMEs of risk information and insurance contracts and customer interactions and claims and issuing market and environment insurance products in with our own network of assessment and evaluation collection of billed amounts, customer relationship, disbursements (with regard to share prices, Access to simple, Switzerland and Europe, sales force agents, brokers of risks on an individual carrying out changes to maintaining and expanding Assessment and utilisation real estate prices, spread high-quality products and active reinsurance and and partners, B2B2C transactional level contracts (changes of business relationships and of information in order to and interest rates), services speciality insurance in access, online@helvetia, address, adjusting the limit ongoing processing of implement measures to development and Integrated, Group-wide risk selected niches worldwide direct insurer Customer advice from of indemnity, etc.) and customer queries and minimise damages/claims implementation of our management for early Smile and the ‘home’ qualified employees with contract termination complaints and develop new market investment strategy and Individual life insurance in identification, recording, ecosystem product, insurance and at the end of the contractual services monitoring and Switzerland and Europe, assessment and appropriate operational expertise relationship management of investment group life insurance control and monitoring of risks and portfolio quality, (occupational benefits, significant risks good asset liability Pillar 2) in Switzerland matching, systematic Forward-looking integration of ESG criteria strategy to promote our core business, new business models and targeted innovations Corporate Governance Sustainable procurement Promotion of employees Employee commitment Public Policy Corporate Citizenship Sustainable insurance Trustworthy company Attractive employer Committed location partner Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 18 Contribution to sustainable development Since January 2018, we have been a member of the UN Global Compact and are thus committed to its ten principles in the areas of human and labour rights, the environment and corruption prevention. Engagement with these issues is nothing new for us. For example, we have already established very solid foundations across the areas of risk management, investment policy, procurement and our employer strategy. By joining the UN Global Compact, we are confirming our commitment to responsible corporate governance and supporting worldwide efforts for a more sustainable development. At the heart of this are the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and comprise a total of 17 goals with 169 targets that cover social, ecological and economic topics. With this, the United Nations calls on states, civil society and businesses to assume responsibility for global well-being. In 2018, following the debate on how best to report on the SDG impact, we conducted an initial analysis of our activities. This gave us an overview of the five goals to which, overall, we are able to contribute (see page 12 of our Sustainability Report 2018). In 2019, we went a step further and tried to unite our main activities with these five goals in detail. In doing so, we realised that our business activities and their relation to the SDGs and associated sub-goals are complex and interlinked in many ways. Identifying and measuring the impact of our contribution – be it positive or negative – remains a major challenge. The evaluation that took place in the year under review was a valuable step for Helvetia. In defining our next CR strategy, we will continue this journey based on the stakeholder feedback we have received and our collaboration with the UN Global Compact Network Switzerland. However, we do not yet currently consider the results of the evaluation to be a fully developed approach to measuring our SDG impact across different business segments. For this reason, we have decided not to provide an overview of our contribution to the SDGs in this report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 19 How we work CR management Ultimate responsibility for the CR commitment of the Helvetia Group is held by the Helvetia GRI 102-18 Board of Directors, which is informed on material sustainability topics twice a year and consistently takes social and environmental considerations into account in its activities. On behalf of the overarching board, the Group’s Sustainability Report is approved by the Nomination and Compensation Committee. The company’s top management body responsible for the CR strategy and basic strategic decisions regarding CR topics is the Executive Management and, in particular, Philipp Gmür, CEO of the Helvetia Group. The highest CR committee is the CR Advisory Board. As an advisory and controlling committee, it steers and coordinates the strategic orientation of CR in the country markets and provides resources for national implementation. Each country market has one responsible Executive Board member in this committee. At Group level, the Corporate Responsibility team is responsible for the further development of the CR strategy and CR programme and advises the countryand Group-level Executive Boards on CR questions. The team is assigned to the CEO’s office and is supported by the CR representatives of the country companies, who carry out this function with a workload of at least 50 per cent. To better embed sustainability within the Group, the Group’s CR team cooperates directly with experts from the relevant Group functions and CR representatives from country markets when implementing new projects and carrying out operational CR tasks. They are the contacts for the CR team and participate in the adjustment of internal business processes in relation to sustainability. These ensure smooth information management and dialogue with stakeholders regarding sustainability topics. They provide support regarding the CR strategy, CR risk management, sustainability reporting and sustainability communication. Board of Directors Executive Board members in the CR Advisory Board country markets Corporate responsibility Helvetia Group CEO & Executive Management Examples: Helvetia Group – Group Risk Management – Compliance Group functions – Investor Relations – Corporate Communications – Investment Management CEOs Switzerland, Europe, Specialty Markets CR project managers and local operational entities for example: Specialty Markets, – HR country markets and – Compliance CEOs country local entities – Controlling markets – Logistics – Marketing & Communications Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 20 Stakeholder commitment Helvetia maintains regular and constructive exchanges with its most important GRI 102-42,  102-43 stakeholder groups. These include employees, customers, investors, competitors, business partners, supervisory authorities, NGOs, politics and society. In this regard, we pursue the following objectives: 1. Compare internal and external points of view 2. Receive critical feedback to see where there is potential for optimisation 3. Reinforce consensus formation and sensitisation on priority CR topics 4. Compare and validate the main sustainability topics of Helvetia 5. Facilitate further development of the CR programme and CR strategy The scope and form of the commitment differ according to the needs of the stakeholders. see also table pp. 21–22 Employees, customers, shareholders and investors are kept regularly informed via benchmark studies and surveys, as well as at events, investor conferences and at the Shareholders’ Meeting. They are also involved in dialogues in which CR topics are discussed. Direct exchange with NGOs, supervisory authorities, associations, politicians and business partners occurs on a subject-specific basis. In order to pool resources both within the industry and across industries, Helvetia is also involved in a variety of initiatives and associations. Dialogue with our stakeholders helps us to understand their needs and find solutions to the challenges we face together. To achieve this, we carried out a detailed survey of representatives of external stakeholders in 2019 to help us prepare our next CR strategy. In 2020, this analysis will be complemented by a survey of the CR Advisory Board and the whole of Helvetia’s Executive Management. Through this, we aim to ensure that the key topics of our future corporate responsibility strategy and reporting continue to focus on the most important issues and areas. Helvetia has dedicated a significant part of its Group and country-specific websites to the topic of corporate responsibility. This provides readers with information on the current status of our activities across the value chain, such as environmental management and the sustainability of our investment portfolio, as well as transparent updates on the progress we have achieved. A page with facts and figures offers readers an additional direct benefit by presenting key figures such as employee and environmental data in factsheets with additional explanations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 21 Stakeholders and their core concerns Stakeholders Core concern GRI 102-40, 102-43, 102-44 Customers Discussions with sales force employees are the most impor−− Transparent information see also p. 32, tant platform for exchange with our customers. Concerns −− Generous, fast claims processing Customer expectations and feedback expressed there are recorded by the sales −− Comprehensive insurance coverage and access to and protection force employees and passed on internally. In addition, the insurance Helvetia Service Center (HSC) ensures systematic and com−− Data protection petent management of customer concerns. Formal customer surveys occur at twoor three-year intervals. Employees Regular discussions with superiors, including the annual −− Performance-related payment s ee also p. 45, performance reviews, are the basis for our dialogue with −− Health in the workplace Attractive employer employees. The Helvetia intranet also provides compre−− Flexible working hours, work-life balance hensive information and opportunities for dialogue across −− Development of own ideas and capacities hierarchies, specialist areas and country companies. In −− Further education addition, various formal and informal occasions take place −− Equal opportunities annually at which employees can engage in exchanges −− Integration, social attachment, networking with each other. Regular satisfaction surveys round off the −− Co-determination and participation dialogue with our employees. Sales partners/brokers Sales Management organises contact with our sales −− Long-term relationship as partners partners, exchanges information with them regularly and −− Attractive product range thus obtains important feedback and suggestions for −− Guarantee of high-quality advisory services and protecimprovements. Regular broker surveys provide additional tion of customer interests feedback. Suppliers Exchange with suppliers occurs via the central Group −− Long-term relationship as partners s ee also p. 40, Procurement department. Targeted supplier surveys are also −− Transparency regarding purchase criteria and Sustainable conducted occasionally in order to obtain input for the further supplier selection procurement optimisation of procurement processes. −− Prompt payment of supplies and services received Investors We inform our shareholders about the course of business −− (Dividend) income and price increases s ee also Financial on a regular basis by means of annual and semi-annual −− Reputation, compliance, good governance report, p. 8 ff. reports, CR reports and at the annual Shareholders’ −− Transparency of reporting Meeting. We also maintain regular dialogue with the −− Forward-looking risk management approximately 500 institutional investors who hold Helvetia shares by means of road shows and investor conferences. With an open and shareholder-friendly strategy, Helvetia is targeting a shareholder base that is as widely distributed, international and long-term in orientation as possible. Analysts We engage in regular exchanges with analysts and provide −− Information on making business decisions and CR them with transparent information on our business activity. −− Governance and transparency in accounting In doing so, we are receiving more and more requests −− Readiness to provide information by Helvetia on CR for information regarding our sustainability performance. aspects Helvetia is working continuously to improve the information basis through its CR reporting, answering of questions and developing its Internet presence. In addition, we orient ourselves to the assessment of our CR service by sustainability experts and analysts. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Our focus 22 Stakeholders Core concern Local communities GRI 102-40, 102-43, 102-44 Representatives of Helvetia, especially Executive Boards −− Tax revenue and location development and General Agents, are in regular contact with repre−− Reputation, compliance, good governance sentatives of local communities. This occurs at local events −− Job offers, job security and professional training or directly in bilateral discussions. −− Social commitment NGOs and universities Cooperation with NGOs and universities occurs selectively −− Taking the company’s own interests into account when on the basis of projects, talks or requests. For example, making business decisions ­Helvetia Switzerland supports the starting week at the −− Corporate commitment to the environment and University of St.Gallen and the Institute of Insurance society Economics. Associations and initiatives GRI 102-12, 102-13 Helvetia is a member of various initiatives and associa−− Corporate commitment to the environment and tions and maintains a regular exchange as part of these society memberships. For example, our Group CEO Philipp Gmür −− Positioning in socially relevant questions is a member of the Executive Board of the Swiss Insurance −− Cooperation on sustainability aspects at industry level Association (SIA), in which questions on climate risks and financial market regulations are also handled. Moreover, Helvetia is also a founding member of Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) and acceded to the UN Global Compact in early 2018. Initiatives and associations with great relevance for CR topics in which Helvetia plays an active role at the Group level: −− Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) −− RE 100 −− Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) −− UN Global Compact −− UNEP Finance Initiative −− Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) from 01/01/2020 −− Sustainability network for financial institutions e. V. (VfU) −− World Demographic & Ageing Forum (WDA Forum) For specific information on commitment in our country markets, please consult the respective CR webpages. Media and publicity Helvetia’s Media Relations office engages in active media −− Open and transparent information work with a high service standard and balanced reputation management. ‘We are convinced that we will only be able to continue with our business model in future if we act responsibly.’ CR progress 25 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business 25 Sustainable insurance offering 28 Sustainable investments 32 Customer expectations and protection 35 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues ­sustainable management 35 Corporate Governance 38 Risk management 40 Sustainable procurement 45 Attractive employer – for and with our employees 45 Promotion of employees 52 Employee commitment 55 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally 55 Public Policy 58 Corporate Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 25 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business With the CR Strategy 20.20, Helvetia has decided to integrate ESG criteria into its core business processes to a greater extent, especially in underwriting, product development and investment decisions. These are the areas in which we can make the greatest contribution to sustainable global development. The approaches defined in 2016 were verified and expanded by the CR Advisory Board in 2019 based on the progress achieved. In addition to the integration of ESG criteria in investment management, the CR managers of the Helvetia national companies continue to see market opportunities for new insurance solutions in the environmental area. To integrate CR aspects permanently into core business processes, Helvetia is taking a bottom-up approach. This is based heavily on the cooperation between CR experts and market and support function managers: based on an initial suggestion from the CR department, we have formulated ideas and starting points in dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. Together with internal specialists and business line managers, we have developed and are implementing (pilot) projects from this. Ideas that have proven themselves during the pilot implementation will then be introduced into our business processes by experts from the departments. In this way, we will establish the know-how transfer that ensures that CR aspects are permanently considered in the core business. Sustainable insurance offering GRI 103-1 As an all-lines insurer, we cushion the existential risks of our customers and in this way contribute to stable social and economic development. For example, simple and flexible insurance solutions permit young people with a small budget to protect against the most important risks. For small and medium-sized companies, we are a competent partner offering innovative products such as insuring cyber risks or protecting against risks in the value chain. Moreover, as part of its entrepreneurial responsibility, Helvetia provides insurance that takes specific sustainability aspects into account. These products and services support the path to a low-carbon and inclusive economy and protect our environment and resources. In addition, they permit our customers to better mitigate the impact of climate change. Sustainable insurance solutions GRI 103-2 We orient ourselves to the needs of our customers with our product range. This also includes investment protection for the use of environmentally friendly technologies for private and corporate customers. For example, in the technical insurance/Specialty Lines area, Helvetia provides artesian well, ground source heat pump and photovoltaic insurance, and in this way supports the development of these forms of renewable energy. Customers benefit from Helvetia’s advanced know-how in the areas of construction, transport and en32% ergy. Moreover, Helvetia rewards owners of energy-efficient vehicles with premium discounts of between 15 and 20 per cent, and has developed tailor-made solutions for new vehicle types such as e-bikes and, as of 2020, e-scooters. growth in sustainable insurance solutions Due to the fact that the insurance coverage offered only has an indirect effect on the decision to purchase an energy-efficient vehicle or install a photovoltaic system, we can only provide very limited incentives for more sustainable behaviour by our customers. Nevertheless, where possible and economically viable, we want to offer our customers solutions that promote economically sustainable behaviour. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 26 In the area of Speciality Lines, we also selectively insure major infrastructure projects, s ee also p. 38, Risk management power stations and conveyor systems as well as goods transportation, e.g. in container ships. In doing so, we pursue a selective and risk-conscious underwriting policy that also GRI 103-2 includes aspects of social responsibility and environmental questions. As a member of the UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to incorporating relevant ecological, social and governance aspects (ESG) into our underwriting. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In the year under review, the share of sustainable insurance products in the Helvetia Group was 0.5 per cent, measured by the total business volume. Considering exclusively property insurance, which accounts for the majority of sustainable products, the previous year’s ratio of almost 1 per cent was maintained, measured by gross Non-Life premiums. Growth was recorded in the Swiss, Italian and Austrian markets. In Austria, this encouraging trend is due in part to the introduction of sustainable life insurance products. In addition, the premium volumes for vehicles with alternative drives rose in Switzerland, Italy and Austria. As of 2019, Germany no longer offers discounts for vehicles with alternative drives. Change compared Sustainable insurance product premiums to previous in CHF 2017 2018 2019 year in % GRI FS8 Artesian well and ground source heat pump insurance 900,000 850,000 700,000 −17.6 Photovoltaic insurance 450,000 400,000 300,000 −25.0 Insurance for vehicles with hybrid drives 4,874,000 6,043,000 7,072,000 17.0 Insurance for vehicles with natural gas or electric drives 1,014,000 1,318,000 1,745,000 32.4 Total Switzerland 7,238,000 8,611,000 9,817,000 14.0 Photovoltaic insurance 3,467,520 3,625,495 3,714,407 2.5 Insurance for vehicles with alternative drives (electric, hybrid, gas) 516,704 692,938 – Insurance for e-scooters – – 3,596 ¹ Total Germany 3,984,224 4,318,433 3,718,003 −14.0 Photovoltaic insurance, renewable energy and liability against environmental pollution 938,459 1,380,720 1,555,843 12.7 Insurance for vehicles with electric drives 58,606 79,984 114,188 42.8 Supplementary insurance for ecological construction 7,032 – – – Total Italy 1,004,097 1,460,704 1,670,031 14.3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 27 Change compared Sustainable insurance product premiums to previous in CHF 2017 2018 2019 year in % GRI FS8 Insurance for vehicles with electric drives 325,381 1,031,066 311,133 −69.8 Insurance for vehicles with hybrid drives 781, 199 957,647 1,024,475 7.0 Insurance for small electric vehicles – – 12,364 Total Spain 1,106,580 1,988,713 1,347,972 −32.2 Photovoltaic insurance 158,720 172,475 172,378 −0.1 Insurance for vehicles with hybrid drives or CO2 bonus 14,603,923 19,257,539 24,652,200 28.0 E-bike insurance 46,555 62,149 76,008 22.3 FairFuture Lane – – 2,090,493 Sustainable life insurance products – – 3,846,252 Total Austria 14,809,198 19,492,163 30,837,331 58.2 Total France² – – – – Helvetia total 28,142,100 35,871,013 47,390,337 32.1 1 H  elvetia Germany has been offering insurance for e-scooters since 2019. The discounts for vehicles with alternative drives are no longer offered. ² In France, Helvetia exclusively offers marine and transport insurance. Helvetia promotes environmentally friendly behaviour Offsetting vehicle emissions with the CO2 climate protection contribution: since November 2019, Helvetia has been offering its motor vehicle and fleet customers in Switzerland the opportunity to offset CO2 emissions through a climate protection contribution. Based on a small number of details about the type of vehicle, the type of fuel, fuel consumption and mileage, our partner myclimate calculates the vehicle’s CO 2 emissions. The aim of offsetting is to reduce the amount of CO2 emitted elsewhere. myclimate invests customers’ climate protection contributions in offsetting projects that meet the highest standards and are proven to prevent greenhouse gas emissions or permanently remove them from the atmosphere. Smart, simple protection against water damage: Helvetia Germany is combining data analytics with IoT (Internet of Things) technology to reduce water leakage. In the year under review, Helvetia worked with the Belgian technology company Shayp and the reinsurance company Munich Re to develop a solution to identify relevant risk factors in buildings insured by Helvetia and carry out damage prognoses. This enables a more accurate calculation of the risk of water leakage. Helvetia Germany is also offering owners of insured buildings an on-site risk assessment from January 2020. The inspection of water installations enables owners to prevent anticipated water damage before it occurs. This has both a positive impact on water usage and also reduces or avoids unnecessary water loss. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 28 Sustainable investments As a leading European insurance company with financial and real estate investments worth GRI 103-1  CHF 54.4 billion, Helvetia has a lot of leverage with regard to shaping ecological, social and economic realities. We are convinced that taking sustainability information into account improves the overall performance of an investment portfolio. For us, responsible handling of capital means taking the criteria of ecology, social issues and governance (ESG) into account. In connection with this, we take an active role in the issues of climate change, environmental catastrophes and disregard for basic labour and human rights or poor corporate governance. In recent years, considering ESG criteria as part of investment analysis and deciding on investments has grown beyond being a niche. Requirements have also risen correspondingly on transparency in reporting and cooperation with other investors. This is reflected in the growing interest of our stakeholders, especially analysts, shareholders and customers. By contrast, when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions, the discussion is being driven more by the need to implement the Paris Agreement and the financial perspective: if many countries agree on strong environmental protection measures, large quantities of coal, oil and gas resources could drop greatly in value. Some investors have already reacted to this risk with a ‘decarbonisation’ of their portfolio. ESG criteria in the investment process GRI 103-2 Helvetia invests the premiums of its customers in high-return, long-term instruments. As a responsible investor, in addition to financial criteria we also apply ESG criteria when making investment decisions. The aim is to meet the high return requirements of our pension customers while maintaining an average sustainability rating for the financial investment portfolio. We conduct semi-annual assessments of the ESG quality of our portfolio, drawing on the evaluation of the independent provider MSCI, which rates more than 13,500 companies and governments on the basis of their sustainability. They are assessed relative to 37 key issues, ranging from greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency to occupational safety and corruption. With this analysis, we cover all of the financial securities for which a corresponding rating is available. These are primarily government and corporate bonds and ­equity as well as fund products based on these securities, which make up about two thirds of our financial investment portfolio. No corresponding ESG rating can be obtained for the GRI FS11 remaining financial assets (mortgages, liquid funds and loans to policyholders and employees). Findings are discussed in Investment Management area meetings and by the national Investment Commissions, the CR Advisory Board, Executive Management and the Board of Directors’ Investment and Risk Committee. The Portfolio Management team also utilises monthly information updates on issuers that evidence low ESG quality and/or are the subject of serious controversy. When a security is put on this portfolio watchlist, an alternative investment is recommended. This ensures that negative ESG ratings are taken into account in the investment process without excluding specific investment vehicles based on predefined thresholds or industry affiliation. Systematic exclusions are made, however, in areas where this is reGRI 103-2 quired due to statutory provisions. For example, we do not invest in manufacturers of banned weapons under the Swiss War Material Act and the Oslo Convention. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 29 Portfolio emissions Forward-looking investment policy cannot ignore climate change. Every half-year, Helvetia calculates its portfolio emissions. In this regard, we only identified slight changes in relation to the data coverage and underlying metrics, such as carbon intensity key figures. This information on climate effectiveness tends to be retrospective and incomplete, and only provides an initial assessment of shares and fixed-interest securities. Since 2016, Helvetia has been publishing a report on climate risks for its financial investment portfolio in the context of Article 173 of the French Energy Transition Act. Real estate management Our real estate portfolio (direct portfolio without funds) comprises CHF 7.5 billion, accounting for around 14 per cent of our investment portfolio. These properties have a lot of leverage when it comes to the optimisation of the three sustainability factors of society, the environment and the economy. The focus here is on the Swiss domestic market in which almost 92 per cent of our real estate portfolio is located. For new buildings and renovations, we rely on the most environmentally friendly and attracGRI 103-2 tive method of construction possible, and in this respect rely on recognised labels like Minergie and SNBS. As a result of the high real estate prices and rents in many places and the growing concentration in cities, social aspects in real estate development are becoming increasingly important. Real estate investments by the Helvetia Group by investment purpose and country (2019) GRI 103-3 Real estate (property without real estate funds) as of 31.12.2019 CHF CHF 7.5 billion 7.5 billion Residential buildings 72% Switzerland 92% Commercial properties 28% Austria 4% Germany 3% Spain 1% Italy 1% France 1% Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 30 2019 review and progress Our investments, worth CHF 54.5 billion, are divided into 54 per cent interest-bearing secuGRI 103-3 rities, 14 per cent properties for investment purposes, 9 per cent mortgages, 5 per cent shares and 18 per cent other, including funds, loans, etc. You can find more information on our investment strategy in the financial report. Helvetia’s financial investment portfolio has s ee also Financial report, p. 58 low ESG risks for all countries with an average MSCI ‘A’ rating as of the end of December 2019. Financial investments worth CHF 36.0 billion were evaluated, of which slightly over 10 per cent have no ESG rating. The share of investments with a high ESG risk (rated B– CCC) has been reduced at the Group level from around 2.2 per cent in the previous year to 1.5 per cent. In some countries, it is even well below this at 0.3 to 1 per cent. Responsible Investment Roadmap In the year under review, Helvetia developed a new ‘Responsible Investment Roadmap’ that aims to ensure sustainable investment across all possible investment categories by 2025, in accordance with our ESG strategy. The roadmap is based on clear role allocation and governance, and has been approved by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. In order to implement this roadmap, the binding Group-wide framework for the integration of ESG factors into the investment process was reviewed. Principles for Responsible Investment In addition, Helvetia prepared to sign the UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment. By becoming a member, the company explicitly commits to supporting the six PRI guidelines for sustainable investment. The expansion of our information and training programmes was also initialised, with the aim of making access to ESG and climate change information as easy as possible for all employees in investment functions from 2020 onwards. Climate compatibility test Based on our voluntary participation in the climate compatibility test in 2017, we were the only financial service provider in Switzerland to participate in the road testing for financial institutions carried out by the Science Based Targets initiative in the year under review. This has enabled us to review the results for equity and bonds based on additional scenarios and data and to test new methods for assessing the environmental impact of our financial investments. Other asset categories such as real estate and mortgages were also incorporated into the climate compatibility test. This means that Helvetia has access to an initial valuable data set for the FOEN climate compatibility test, which will be relaunched in 2020. The resulting transparency regarding measures for adapting to climate change and mitigating its effects on our investments were also incorporated into the new Responsible Investment Roadmap. ESG investment strategy for the Helvetia pension fund Helvetia offers its employees an independent and attractive pension fund. With very few exceptions (such as those with temporary employment contracts), all Helvetia employees are insured against the economic impact of old age, disability and death through the Helvetia Insurance pension fund. In the year under review, the Helvetia pension fund, whose regulatory benefits extend far beyond the minimum statutory requirements, adopted the ESG investment policy of the Group Investment area. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 31 ESG risks for financial investments by country (2019) GRI FS11 0.7 MSCI ESG rating 8.0 0.3 8.0 0.2 7.2 0.9 2.5 0.4 2.0 AAA AA A 1.1 3.9 14.2 19.7 BBB BB B 27.3 29.2 CCC CH DE ES not rated 16.1 44.3 21.9 29.9 37.0 0.2 0.5 1.6 6.7 7.0 2.8 0.3 7.8 12.8 0.6 16.6 0.1 1.3 26.8 IT 14.8 AT FR 25.8 43.8 46.6 26.5 32.6 Development of ESG risks for Group financial investments 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC not rated 2017 2018 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 32 Customer expectations and protection A balanced partnership with our customers is the foundation for long-term business relationGRI 103-1  ships and, as a result, the basis of our corporate success. Fair and transparent advisory is just as important for this as the responsible handling of customer data and offering attractive services. As customers make a prepayment with the payment of their premiums, trust in the reliability of Helvetia is crucial for them. Drawing benefits in the event of losses is often associated with a negative experience, which can be of vital significance for the parties affected. Easily accessible and unbureaucratic claim management creates trust and is part of our benefit promise to our customers. Fair dealings with our customers have made a decisive contribution to our reputation. Customer orientation as a cornerstone of helvetia 20.20 GRI 103-2, 103-3 Customer orientation is one of the three pillars of the helvetia 20.20 strategy. Our goal is to optimise the customer journey and give our customers the easiest possible access to our services across digital and analogue communication channels. In addition, we want to get to know the expectations, habits and needs of our customers as well as possible and use these as the starting point for developing new products and services. These findings are integrated directly in the strategic considerations of the Corporate Development department. Customer satisfaction and advisory services Irrespective of whether customers make direct contact with us through an advisor or via a website, social media channel or otherwise, they should be able to come to informed decisions regarding whether and to what extent they want to take advantage of a product or service. We ensure this through transparent and understandable product information and regular training of our sales force employees. For example, as part of the training programme Cicero (Certified Insurance Competence) launched by the Swiss Insurance Association (SIA) and recognised throughout the industry, all sales force employees in Switzerland must complete accredited training modules amounting to 60 Cicero credits within two years. This corresponds to about seven training days. Nevertheless, some customers find some of the information and documents relating to our insurance products difficult to understand. As our contracts have to meet the applicable regulatory requirements, which involve a high number of rules, our insurance documents are indeed comprehensive. Within the bounds of what is legally permissible, we are constantly improving information on our product offers and inform customers as comprehensively and clearly as possible with detailed calculation and product documentation. Organisation Customer service at Helvetia is decentralised in national companies in order to be able to address local customer needs and expectations optimally. We carry out surveys and benchmark studies regularly to compare our image, our advisory and other services and the quality of our products with those of our competitors. Moreover, feedback from our customers after interactions with us enables us to continually identify approaches for further improvements in our customer support. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 33 2019 review and progress Surveys were carried out in all country markets to provide an independent assessment of the GRI 103-3 quality of our customer service. In Switzerland, the largest country market, regular surveys on the quality of products and services were carried out in 2019 in the areas of private and occupational pensions, the services of brokers with whom Helvetia collaborates for the distribution of Life and Non-Life products for corporate and private customers, and the assessment of claim management. Once again, private customers in Switzerland rated the handling of their claims by Helvetia as satisfactory. This positive performance is supported by a recommendation result above the market average. There were no breaches against regulations or voluntary agreements with regard to product GRI 417-2 information in the entire Helvetia Group in the year under review. Arbitration body GRI 103-3 In its second year of operation, the independent arbitration body introduced in Switzerland in April 2018 recorded a significant decrease in the number of complaints regarding private pensions and non-life insurance filed with the Swiss Ombudsman of Private Insurance and of Suva. In addition, very few entries regarding Helvetia now appear on the consumer platforms www.reklamation.ch and www.plaintes.ch. This has significantly reduced the amount of time invested in handling these processes and the risk of reputational damage. In the year under review, the arbitration body was involved in settling a total of 80 conflicts. The cases concerned the Non-Life, private pensions, Specialty Markets, occupational pensions and real estate business segments. In most cases, a mutual solution could be found or Helvetia’s perspective comprehensibly explained. Data protection GRI 103-2, 103-3 As digitalisation continues, data and the information gleaned from it are becoming increasingly important. As a result, the requirements for the responsible handling of data are also increasing. Companies need to be able to trust the data they have concerning their customers and employees in order to be able to draw accurate conclusions from it. Customers and employees, in turn, need to trust companies enough to provide and entrust them with the data required for the necessary and intended purposes. When handling this data, companies need to meet the highest standards in terms of data ethics, data protection and information security. In addition, data and systems are often targeted by criminal attacks, meaning they require particular protection in the eyes of customers, employees and companies. Security, trust and transparency are just a few of the principles that Helvetia adheres to when it comes to using the data it has available. These principles are part of the regular risk and control processes at Helvetia and are reviewed on an ongoing basis. s ee also p. 35, Corporate Governance Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 34 Organisation In organisational terms, data protection at Helvetia in Switzerland is embedded centrally in a competence centre (Data Protection department) and decentrally through many data protection specialists. Local compliance officers and specialists ensure data protection in the country markets. Our experts exchange information on current developments with each other and in the national industry and specialist associations, and thus ensure up-to-date data protection compliance. Management is responsible for effective data protection: it prescribes the requirements for the GRI 103-2 use of personal data and provides the resources required. Our employees who have access to personnel data in the context of their areas of responsibility are specially trained in handling it. Electronic learning programmes are available for their sensitisation. Moreover, data protection and the obligation to confidentiality is part of the terms and conditions of employment and of the Code of Compliance mandatory for all employees. Regular compliance mechanisms ensure observance of the data protection provisions at Helvetia. In this respect, specialists for various control functions (e.g. data protection, information security and risk management) engage in intensive cooperation. 2019 review and progress GRI 418-1, 103-3 In the year under review, valuable experience was gained from the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union and the Principality of Liechtenstein. In addition, Helvetia has been closely involved in the complete revision of the Federal Act on Data Protection in Switzerland. Helvetia sees great potential in these regulatory changes, the implementation of which will play an active role in professionalising data processing. In the year under review, there were a total of 17 justified complaints by customers regarding our handling of personal data. One complaint was filed with the authorities in Austria. Helvetia makes these data protection incidents a top priority and immediately undertook appropriate adjustments to instructions and IT systems and took all the necessary measures (e.g. briefing and re-training the employees involved) to ensure that no risk was posed to the affected individuals. At no point and in no cases were the valid interests of the affected individuals clearly under threat. Group-wide information security awareness campaign The Group-wide awareness campaign was successfully concluded at the end of 2019. Social media, IoT (Internet of Things) and AI (artificial intelligence) modules were added in the year under review. In Switzerland, all the trainings relating to Hacker ‘BETA’ were optional. Employee participation was, however, compulsory for all other Helvetia market entities. The campaign and associated events were a success from a Group perspective, and additional training modules were even added in some country markets. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 35 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues sustainable management Trust is one of the most important resources in customer-oriented insurance and is reflected correspondingly in our corporate values. We would like to earn this trust not only with our services in our core business, but also in the manner we do business. For us, this includes observance of the applicable laws and voluntary standards that go further as well as forward-looking risk management and the deliberate handling of resources. This requires the cooperation of very different areas of our company. The Corporate Responsibility team is responsible for monitoring the main sustainability developments in international and national discussions in this respect. It works with line of business and market unit managers to integrate these developments in the processes of corporate management, control and transparency. Corporate Governance Credible and honest company management is the foundation for the integration of compulGRI 103-1 sory and voluntary standards in day-to-day business. As a result, good corporate governance is a prerequisite for proactively handling shortand long-term social and environmental challenges. The expectations of our stakeholders regarding fair and transparent action often exceed the prevailing legal position. Breaches can have considerable negative consequences in the form of reputational damage, financial losses, sanctions and fines up to and including restrictions of business activities. On the other hand, good corporate governance promotes the positive effects Helvetia has on its business environment by supporting fair competitive conditions and hindering breaches of environmentally or socially relevant standards. Approach for reliable compliance GRI 103-2 The configuration and division of labour of our management and controlling bodies, is based on recognised frameworks and applicable regulatory codes such as, in particular, the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance, the guidelines regarding information on corporate governance of the SIX Swiss Exchange (Directive on Corporate Governance, DCG), the ‘Corporate governance – insurers’ circular of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA), the Ordinance against Excessive Remuneration in Listed Companies Limited by Shares (ERCO) and the FINMA circular ‘Remuneration schemes’, and report on them transparently in our annual financial report. s ee also Financial report, p. 10 ff. To provide market participants with more comprehensive information, Helvetia is one of 24 listed Swiss companies to take advantage of the opportunity to publish its Sustainability Report on the SIX Exchange Regulation website. Through this voluntary communication, Helvetia declares that it will create a Sustainability Report (‘opting in’ in accordance with Art. 9 para. 2.03 of the Directive on Regular Reporting Obligations) and commits to publishing a CR report within eight months of the annual report reporting date and keeping it on its website for five years. The opt-in is published by SIX Swiss Exchange AG on its website. In addition, Helvetia has positioned itself as a reliable and compliance-conscious financial services company. We do all we can to support conduct in compliance with regulations and values, from the highest executive body to new recruits. The Code of Compliance serves us as a guideline here and is the expression of our corporate responsibility and corporate culture. We are reducing environmental, business and social risks with the help of our management GRI 103-2 systems and approaches. We are focusing on environmental standards, human rights and avoiding bribery and corruption. Group guidelines and directives ensure that the requirements Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 36 are taken into account in our core business and also in projects. The principles and guidelines of compliance management are defined in the Compliance Regulations of the Helvetia Group, which were commissioned and approved by the Board of Directors. Organisation GRI 102-18, 103-3 The Strategy and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors ensures the good corporate governance of the Helvetia Group at the highest level. The Group Compliance Officer is organisationally part of the Corporate Center and reports to the Executive Management and Board of Directors. The country markets have their own compliance officers, who in each case are supported by specialists in the areas of money laundering, data protection, competition law and other fields such as sanctions and embargoes. The compliance officers of the country markets submit reports on important topics and any cases and breaches that have occurred to the Group Compliance Officer at least every half year. The latter informs the Executive Management and Board of Directors of the Helvetia Group of the compliance process, corresponding activities and the evaluation of the compliance risks. The Group Compliance Officer also presents an annual and semi-annual report. During the identification, evaluation, control, monitoring and documentation of the risks, the Group Compliance Officer cooperates closely with qualitative risk management. Current developments are observed on an ongoing basis as part of the ICOR process (Internal Control System and Operational Risk Management) and are placed on the compliance agenda as required. Based on the regulatory requirements, we have defined thresholds for this purpose in relation to financial, operational and regulatory risks as well as reputational risk and made sure there is a corresponding reporting process. s ee also p. 38, Risk management Involvement of employees We have recorded the main regulations and basic principles for the 15 most important compliance subjects in the Code of Compliance. Beginning with business behaviour in compliance with regulations, through to avoiding fraud, bribery and corruption, and including transparent communication, it formulates guidelines for our corporate actions. If necessary, these are specified through internal directives. It is binding on all business units and employees of the Helvetia Group. Regular courses at all levels promote an awareness for value-oriented conduct in accordance with the regulations. An e-learning basic training is compulsory for all employees on joining and is repeated subsequently every two years. For this purpose, specific training courses occur regularly for especially exposed functional areas (e.g. awarding mortgages or with regard to money laundering) and we set special store by behavioural integrity in management training. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 37 We are aware that violations of rules can occur in daily business or that an evaluation is not GRI 103-2  always clear. For example, there is sometimes only a small difference between trivial and acceptable gifts and bribery or corruption to gain illegitimate benefits. In the event of uncertainty, our employees can contact the corresponding compliance officers in their country markets with complaints or observations. Information and contacts can be found easily on the intranet and are transparently communicated. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3  In the year under review, there were no confirmed cases of corruption in any of the country GRI 205-3 markets and accordingly no sanctions were issued. In 2019, there were no significant breachGRI 419-1 es of laws and regulations in the social and economic sphere. The Code of Compliance was communicated to all employees again in 2019, including an intranet link via which it can be viewed at any time. For technical reasons, there has not been any explicit assessment of how many employees at which hierarchical level in which countries consulted the Code of Compliance in the year under review. In Switzerland, the largest country market, all new employees were invited to complete an e-learning module on the Code of Compliance. Employees who had already completed a basic course were reminded to refresh their knowledge after two years. Of the 1,173 employees who were invited to take part in the training, 91 per cent of new employees and 75 per cent of employees who have been at the company for a longer period successfully completed the Code of Compliance training. Those employees who failed to do so were given a warning by their superiors and made to complete the course without delay. Across the Group, 22 compliance training sessions were carried out. In addition to introducGRI 205-2 tions to compliance, these were chiefly courses on the subject of anti-corruption, sanctions/ embargoes and the prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing. Focused Reporting – a chance for Swiss companies In 2019, Helvetia took part in the review of sustainability reports carried out for the fifth time by engageability and öbu in partnership with RepRisk. The project Focused Reporting – a chance for Swiss companies was supported by a high-ranking consortium of multi-stakeholder experts, the Federal Office for the Environment (FOEN) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The main goal of Focused Reporting is to promote comprehensive sustainability reporting that is credible and puts emphasis on relevant sustainability topics. The analysis of Helvetia’s 2018 Sustainability Report put the company in the ‘Advancing’ category, with a score of 59 per cent. The greatest potential for improvement lay in the areas of comprehensiveness (with a score of 50 per cent) and credibility (with a score of 40 per cent). The relevance of the report, however, received an above-average score of 87 per cent. Some of the recommendations – such as presenting the value chain and its direct and indirect impact as a means of improving comprehensiveness, and reporting on the targets and results of partnerships – have already been implemented in this report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 38 Risk management For Helvetia, respect for human and labour rights or environmental standards is part of reliGRI 103-1,  102-11 able corporate behaviour. Compliance with them is assuming increasing importance in public opinion, as are discussions about future energy use and water shortages. They have the potential to lead to great changes and global imbalances, which could have financial consequences in the medium and long term. For example, the potential effects of climate change are to date difficult to assess. Increasing natural catastrophes can influence the frequency and sums of claims, but also have effects on real estate evaluations, reinsurance premiums and the stability of financial markets as a whole. Moreover, there are also reputational risks in this area for Helvetia. Perceptions regarding which circumstances or behaviours are classified as social, ecological or also economically legitimate or illegitimate are changing continually. The EU’s action plan for financing sustainable growth and the reorientation of the UN Global Compact with the discussion of the contribution of companies to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals show that companies and, in particular, financial service providers are assigned an important role in increasing sustainability performance, and their behaviour is thus critically evaluated. Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks GRI 103-2 Professional handling of risks is part of everyday business for Helvetia. In this respect, we continuously include social developments in the preparation of our strategies for risk evaluation and avoidance. The consideration of ecological, social and governance risks is correspondingly part of our risk management processes. Our goal in this regard is to minimise s ee also Financial report, the risk of human rights violations or non-compliance with environmental standards within p. 4 ff. our sphere of influence. For example, in the annual Group-wide comprehensive risk profiling process (CRP), potential ESG risks are identified and evaluated on the basis of varied sources. We distinguish between four classes of risk – from marginal risks with low potential impact to critical risks that could massively impair our business activity. We take ESG risks into account in underwriting in a multilevel process. We observe all applicable economic sanctions in the countries in which we operate. Furthermore, our underwriting guidelines cover human rights and environmental aspects. These are checked as part of the due diligence process for insurance decisions. In addition, we identify countries in which there are systematic violations of human rights or where sanctions and embargoes have been imposed by the UN, the OECD or the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). Detailed guidelines apply to transactions in these countries, which provide for an in-depth review if material risks are identified. In addition to the responsible divisional management, other units such as CR, Compliance and if necessary, the responsible member of the Group Executive Board is involved. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 39 In general, we are committed to limiting risk and taking preventive measures. If this is not GRI 103-2 possible, we may classify risks as ‘unacceptable’. Guidelines for this assessment are the degree of non-compliance or the potential extent of damage to people and the environment and also the economic relevance. This also applies to cases in which our influence is limited, such as, for example, when we are not the leading insurer. In order to sensitise employees in underwriting for ESG risks, they receive a current evaluation on high-risk sectors and a compilation of the most important emerging ESG risks every quarter. We are also working with other companies, industry associations and representatives from civil society as part of initiatives such as the United Nations Financial Initiative and the UN Global Compact. This helps us to raise awareness of sustainability risks both within our company and beyond and to develop effective responses to avoid these risks. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-2, 103-3 The risk posed by climate change continues to be one of the biggest challenges for Helvetia and makes decisive action imperative today. In acknowledgement of the target set by the World Climate Conference in Paris, we therefore dealt intensively with the recommendations of the international Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in the year under review. They go not only far beyond simple environmental reporting, but also support the holistic integration of the risks and opportunities arising from climate change and a low-emission economy into the value chain. UNGC Peer Learning Group Climate Strategy To expand on the knowledge gained, Helvetia took part in the Peer Learning Group Climate, part of the UN Global Compact Network, in 2019. Items on the agenda included the risks and opportunities for adaptation to the 1.5 degree scenario, climate-compatible CO2 reduction targets for Scope 3 emissions and opportunities for involvement in the area of climate policy. In addition, best practice examples of corporate climate strategies were presented and discussed. The comparison with companies from other industries showed that Helvetia still has some catching up to do in terms of the management of climate risks. As a result, ­climate change risk was therefore reclassified as a top risk. In addition, the relevance and potential impact of all other ESG risks was reassessed. Analysis of the development of hard and soft CR law In 2019, Helvetia also carried out a comprehensive analysis of current and, in particular, future corporate responsibility soft law developments in order to be able to incorporate them in a more targeted way when analysing risks and opportunities. In doing so, Helvetia aims in particular to improve the information and reporting it offers its stakeholders and, based on this, to conduct an increased internal and external exchange. The results were intensively discussed in the CR Advisory Board and cross-divisional cooperation between the functions concerned was established. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 40 Sustainable procurement Protection of the environment and the climate is one of the most important global challenges. GRI 103-1, 102-9 Helvetia supports the development of a low-carbon and inclusive economy. Compared to manufacturing companies, the flow of materials and resources in a financial services company is limited. Our direct influence on the environment and society arises above all through the procurement and use of the infrastructure we need to render our services. This in particular includes the office buildings, business travel, the IT and office infrastructure, as well as office and marketing material. We do not want to cause any negative effects on the environment and society, either in the procurement or in the use of these products. Sustainable and climate responsible procurement GRI 103-2 We pay attention to local, environmentally friendly and socially responsible procurement and use of our infrastructure and consumable materials. With our principles for sustainable procurement, we define guidelines for environmentally and socially compatible procurement. An internal procurement guideline specifies this for our purchasing managers. It defines clear minimum requirements and additional voluntary criteria that are intended to promote environmentally friendly and socially compatible purchasing for 13 goods categories. The product categories extend from the food in the staff restaurant, the IT infrastructure and cleaning materials to customer gifts. The guideline is based on recognised labels and standards, such as Blue Angel, the energy label and the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). In addition, it informs those responsible for the procurement of goods and services on the relevant social or ecological aspects and provides advice on how to address them in supplier discussions. Procurement is organised decentrally in the country markets with managers for individual product groups. IT infrastructure, which is procured Group-wide, is an exception. CO2 emissions and environmental management GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 For our environmental management, we record all emissions arising from our buildings, business travel, paper and water consumption and waste disposal. In 2015, we set ourselves the goal of lowering our absolute CO2 emissions by 2020 by 10 per cent compared to 2012. We would even like to cut the relative CO2 emissions per employee (in FTE) in the period 2012 to 2020 by 20 per cent. To calculate our greenhouse gas emissions, we rely on the methodology of the VfU sustainability network for financial institutions in the version of the reference year 2012. We also define our measures to reduce our emissions on the basis of this data. We want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by increasing efficiency and using renewable energy sources. After switching to 100 percent electricity from renewable sources at the level of Helvetia Group in 2015, the CR Advisory Board decided to focus on the areas of heating and business transport until 2020. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 41 Helvetia is climate neutral Since 2017, we have been compensating unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions through investments in climate protection projects. We see emission offsetting only as a temporary solution; however, as a responsible company, we already want to make as positive a contribution as possible today. Therefore, we take care that our donations flow into projects whose climate protection effect has been independently reviewed and which have positive economic and social effects. Based on the independent verification of environmental data and our greenhouse gas balance, Helvetia has been granted the status of a climate neutral company with the ClimatePartner ID 12937-1809-1001. Organisation and environmental reporting GRI 103-2 The specialist managers for the procurement and management of the corresponding product groups, facilities and infrastructure are responsible for the optimisation of environmental management. When it comes to implementing individual measures, they are supported by the Corporate Responsibility team at the Group level. A Group-wide CO2 plan of action bundles the planned measures. To make the results of our efforts transparent, credible and traceable for our stakeholders, the Helvetia Group has been reporting annually on its climate protection measures since 2012 as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). As a member of the RE100 initiative by the Climate Group, we publicly affirm that we make exclusive use of electricity from renewable sources and in this way would also like to motivate other companies to convert to environmentally friendly electricity. Environmental performance: CDP climate rating A = best assessment B B B B A Climate rating C B D− D C Public disclosure (D− and D) Awareness D (C− and C) Active management (B− und B) E Leadership 2012/2011 2013/2012 2014/2013 2015/2014 2016/2015 2017/2016 2018/2017 2019/2018 (A– und A) 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 Helvetia invests a lot in external goods and services. In order to counter the increasing complexity of the procurement process, support ongoing projects more effectively and ensure maximum added value within Helvetia, the two previously separate entities IT Sourcing & Procurement and Central Purchasing were merged to form Group Procurement, part of IT Service Management, on 1 October 2019. Group Procurement is now the central point of contact and competence centre for all procurement questions. This will further standardise systems and processes, ease communication, create purchasing synergies and, reduce the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 42 number of intermediaries. In future, projects will receive more targeted content-related supGRI 103-3 port and the quality of ESG advisory services for specialist departments will increase. Travel management sensitisation campaign In the year under review, a group of experts made up of members of the logistics department and various other business segments addressed questions relating to Helvetia’s travel management. The main objectives of this working group were to identify business travel that may not have been recorded correctly and to develop resources to enable ‘greener’ business travel. The key considerations were how to conduct necessary business travel while using the fewest possible resources and causing the lowest CO2 emissions, how the CO2 emissions resulting from business travel can be recorded, how events can be organised so as to be carbon neutral, how employees can be motivated to make bookings that favour sustainable, low-emission modes of transport, and which criteria should be used to assess and select conference, accommodation and mobility providers. The investigation once more revealed how important it is to consider sustainability criteria when planning business travel and to unite environmental, social and economic interests. As with all transformation processes, the important thing is to start somewhere and consistently expand the steps taken in the next strategy period. We started with the people who are travelling. Information and communication measures were taken to raise awareness among employees. Slight reduction in absolute CO2 emissions Compared with the figure from the previous year – which was adjusted to a slightly lower value of 15,254.45 tonnes following a review – absolute CO2 emissions sank by 1.7 per cent in 2019. For the first time since the company started to measure emissions in 2012, the figure fell below 15,000 tonnes. Over 70 per cent of our total carbon emissions are caused CO2 by business travel, followed by heating energy at around 20 per cent and paper usage at around 5 per cent. In fourth place is electricity usage, which accounts for 2.4 per cent of total CO2 emissions. In the year under review, 100 percent of the electricity we use again came from renewable sources. We achieved this through corresponding supplier agreements on the one hand and through the acquisition of certificates of origin on the other. By Electricity 2.4% Heating 19.7% purchasing hydropower from Switzerland, we retrospectively offset the proportion of atomic Business travel 70.4% energy, energy from unknown sources and energy from fossil fuels. Paper 5.0% Water 0.7% The relative CO2 emissions per full-time equivalent also fell by 4.2 per cent in 2019 and now Waste 1.8% amount to 2,104 kg (2018: 2,195 kg). Our goal of reducing our CO2 emissions per employShare of absolute CO2 emissions 2019 ee by 20 per cent by 2020 compared with the reference year 2012 has already been exceeded with a reduction of 34.8 per cent. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 43 Development of CO2 emissions per employee (FTE) in kg 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CH DE IT ES AT FR Group Group target value In the 2019 reporting year, we identified further emissions sources in the area of business travel. For GRI 103-3 the first time, data from incentive travel was recorded for employees in the Austrian and Swiss markets and the resulting CO2 emissions were calculated. At Group level, we are pleased to record a slight reduction in CO2 emissions of 2.3 per cent, despite a small increase in the number of kilometres travelled. This is due to a partial shift to public transport and the ongoing modernisation of our vehicle fleet, both of which led to a reduction in CO2 emissions per kilometre travelled. Due to the high CO2 intensity in the mobility sector, this 97 percent reduction in emissions from business traffic also determines the group-wide decrease in absolute CO2 emissions. Overall, the development of the carbon footprint across country markets presents a mixed picture. In Austria, taking incentive travel into account resulted in a significant increase in CO2 emissions from business travel and thus overall CO2 emissions. A slight increase in absolute CO2 emissions was also recorded in Spain and France. This was caused by an increase in business travel and a greater need for heating energy in Spain. In Switzerland, Germany and Italy, however, absolute CO2 emissions decreased, mainly due to a reduction in electricity usage and improved mobility management. Our environmental key figures were independently reviewed at Group level for the 2019 financial s ee also p. 87, year. Assurance statement The respective projects and quantities to compensate for Helvetia’s unavoidable CO2 emissions in 2019 can be tracked under Helvetia’s ClimatePartner ID 12937-1809-1001. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 44 CO2 Target for reduction in absolute CO2 emissions met GRI 103-3 Helvetia set itself the goal of reducing the CO2 emissions from its own operations by at least 10 per cent by 2020. With the acquisition of the insurance group Nationale Suisse in 2015 this target has become much more ambitious as we deliberately refrained from the option to recalculate emissions for the base year. Despite the more than 1,500 additional employees, who initially caused a significant increase in our greenhouse gas balance, we achieved our CO2 reduction target in 2019 with a decrease of 10.8 per cent compared with 2012. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 45 Attractive employer – for and with our employees As a financial service company, Helvetia is dependent on capable and committed employGRI 103-1 ees in order to maintain its position on the market in the long term. Helvetia can best meet Video link current challenges – such as digitisation, changing customer needs and demographic developments – with well educated and agile employees. This places high demands on our employees and our human resources management (HR). Requirement and job profiles are changing rapidly and require flexibility, networked thinking, and pragmatic and collaborative working attitude. Moreover, the expectations of our (future) employees are shifting. In addition to attractive compensation models, flexible life and work models, sufficient room for own ideas and crea­ tivity, work that gives individual sense, is now at the forefront for the evaluation of an employer. Accordingly, Helvetia attaches great importance to its role as an attractive employer. For us, this includes good employment conditions, that enable us to attract capable employees and retain them with the company in the long term. On the other hand, they also include a working environment in which employees can develop their full potential. An attractive working environment is the basis for the physical and psychological well-being of our employees and, as a result, also for their commitment to the company and to society. Responsibility for HR at Helvetia resides with the Head of Human Resources who reports directly to Group CEO Philipp Gmür. Incentives and benefits Our goal is to employ satisfied and efficient employees in the long term, who have the skills GRI 103-2 and competences to master challenges in a constantly changing working world. We need employees with the right capabilities in the right place at the right time. In recent years, we have carried out comprehensive analyses of the positioning of Helvetia as an employer. It became clear that the attractiveness of our employment conditions, the development opportunities as well as our culture may be considered as sound both from internal and external perspectives. The relatively long duration of employment, particularly among managers, indicates a high level of satisfaction with Helvetia as an employer. At the same time, there is still optimisation potential in terms of flexibility, agility, promotion of above-average performance, innovative strength and diversity. We responded to this by developing a ‘Group HR strategy’ that will formulate the direction of HR management, completed by the end of 2020. At its core is the promotion of a more heterogeneous employee structure in relation to background, gender, education and talents. However, seniority and loyalty as well as basic attitudes, ways of thinking and life concepts are also subject of the strategy. To achieve this, we develop individual working models that employees can make use of depending on their needs and expectations. So-called life-phase-oriented benefits, give our employees the opportunity to adjust the conditions across their professional career according to their needs and thus achieve consistently attractive working conditions at Helvetia. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 46 At the same time, a heterogeneous employee structure also requires extensive scope for acGRI 103-2 tion and room to manoeuvre in order to make the best possible use of individual potential. For the managers in particular, this requires switching to a culture based more on setting individual guiding principles than on the equal treatment of all employees. The HR strategy includes the following directions, which can be adapted to the specific local requirements by the country markets in their individual HR strategies. Active workforce management Helvetia pursues the aim of having the appropriate number and quality of employees at all times. In 2017, we launched a comprehensive talent and succession management, which was developed further in 2019. Based on standardised annual employee performance reviews, employees who are willing to take on a new challenge, are identified and given targeted support for their professional development. The goal is to expand the individual scope for action and make optimum use of employees’ potential. At the same time, managers are to be developed internally and open positions should mainly be filled from own ranks. Furthermore, we support various market and support functions in transforming their business. Internal key figures, such as the job vacancy rate and data on internal mobility, permit us to continually monitor achievement of objectives. Cultural transformation We are initiating a cultural transformation towards more customer orientation, innovation and agility. The goal is to change the understanding of work and leadership from within and foster stronger international collaboration. For this purpose, we connect the many different initiatives within Helvetia and promote the exchange of ideas and joint learning. Employees should develop an understanding of what our strategic objectives actually mean in everyday work and how they can support their implementation. By means of customer and employee surveys and, last but not least, the business results, we can find out whether we are on track. In addition to an internal cultural identity, Helvetia is also promoting greater diversity of staff. A diverse employee structure promotes the exchange of knowledge and experience and enables the development of creative problem solving. For example, various measures aim to achieve a balanced generational relationship and increase the proportion of women in the sales force and in management positions. Employer of choice We have positioned ourselves as an attractive employer and would like to attract the right employees in the long term. To this end, we have expanded the above-mentioned offering of life-phase-oriented employer benefits and have adopted new approaches in recruiting. This enables our employees in the course of their career at Helvetia, for example, to adapt their workload, their remuneration and their place of work to a certain extent according to their individual needs. Furthermore, we are continuously investing in attractive framework conditions and promote an environment in which our employees can contribute their strengths and ideas. Helvetia also attaches great importance to the physical and mental well-being of its employees and promotes this as part of its occupational health management (CHM). We check whether we are on track with our measures by means of employer attractiveness studies and internal key figures, such as the length of time new employees stay with the company. Moreover, since 2016, we have been honoured in our domestic market of Switzerland with the ‘Friendly Work Space’ quality seal from Health Promotion Switzerland. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 47 We support our managers by providing them with strategically relevant HR key figures and GRI 103-2 straightforward HR processes and workflows (e.g. with the introduction of modern recruitment tools). With processing options independent from time and location as well as improved communication channels, we enable our managers and employees to execute their tasks and concerns smoothly. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 Three years ago, in 2016, Helvetia was awarded in its domestic market of Switzerland with the ‘Friendly Work Space’ label from Health Promotion Switzerland. After three years, prize-winning companies undergo another assessment to show that they continue to make a sustained commitment to the health of their employees and are systematically working to 2016 optimise their framework conditions. Helvetia passed this assessment successfully passed this 2020 assessment in 2019 and was recertified as a ‘Friendly Work Space’ in March 2020. Employer campaign ‘&go’ The new campaign for employer positioning started in Switzerland in September 2018. We GRI 103-3 encourage our workforce of over 6,800 people to get up &go. &go stands for our combination of proven strengths with an entrepreneurial approach to tomorrow’s challenges. It embodies a culture of fault tolerance, that supports testing of innovative and unconventional solutions. Our aim is to encourage our employees to question the status quo, explore and discuss new methods, rather than simply agreeing. The Group-wide rollout of the campaign was intended to link the employer positioning with our corporate brand in terms of content and visuals. In Switzerland, for example, we were able to recruit a total of 16 employees from various areas with newly designed job advertisements. Job adverts now also include information about working at Helvetia and a link to the new recruiter profiles, as well as the option to integrate videos and links to the manager’s XING or LinkedIn profile. Exciting blog articles and videos were also produced, which can be found at www.helvetia.ch/career. Thanks to the campaign the number of hits on the career website increased significantly and the number of employee recommendations more than doubled. In 2019, the employer campaign was successfully rolled out in all country markets. Leadership@Helvetia with a new focus GRI 103-3 In order to strengthen the agility and flexibility of our managers and improve their crossdepartmental cooperation, a company-wide development programme for managers was introduced in 2018 as part of the group-wide employer campaign &go. The focus in the year under review was particularly on topics such as, topics such as ‘Leadership in times of change’ and ‘Leadership in the age of digitalisation’. This is intended to prepare the whole management team for the upcoming challenges of the new working world and the associated cultural change. By the end of 2019, around 450 employees (around half of managers) had taken part in Austria, Germany, Italy and Switzerland. The rollout in France and Spain is planned for 2020. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 48 Education and training GRI 404-1 In 2019, Helvetia invested an average of 28 hours per employee in training. This 40 per cent rise is due to an increase in training regarding the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Training in hours per FTE 2017 2018 2019 GRI 404-1 Sales force 44.8 33.5 51.1 see  also p. 66, Key figures Internal service 14.7 8.1 19.5 employees Women 19.4 17.3 27.0 Men 24.7 21.0 29.2 Executive Board members 14.7 20.4 17.2 Management 21.6 18.7 26.0 Specialists 11.8 8.6 27.0 Clerks 23.1 12.2 24.0 Total 22.8 19.6 28.4 In order to ensure that our sales force employees can advise our customers competently and up-to-date advice at all times, the average amount of training they receive is significantly higher than for internal service staff. At Helvetia, however, our focus is not on the number of training hours but on the orientation towards the current and future needs of both employees and the company. Helvetia promotes innovative approaches to training and development GRI 103-3 and is also continually expanding the e-learning product range. Diversity@Helvetia In 2019, the Diversity@Helvetia statement was approved and the approach and measures for the three areas of activity defined: ‘generation balance@helvetia’ (ensuring a balance of generations and knowledge transfer), ‘rush hours of life@helvetia’ (offering flexible working hours and formats for all staff) and ‘women@helvetia’ (continually increasing the proportion of women in the total workforce). In our traditional diversity focus on gender equality we were unfortunately only able to make partial progress in the year under review. For example, Helvetia succeeded in appointing women for important management positions, such as on the Executive Boards in Germany and France, in the actuarial office or for the management of the General Council. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 49 However, the proportion of female managers at Helvetia stagnated at 19.9 per cent in 2019, with an overall average proportion of female staff at just 36 per cent. Whereas the gender proportion of the employees under 30 is almost balanced, the female proportion falls markedly in those over 30 years of age. This complicates the development of female managers. The measures introduced in the area of life-phase-oriented benefits, which we offer under Video link the term ‘WorkReallySmart@helvetia’, unfortunately had less effect. Despite flexible working time models, part-time work management positions and job sharing, as well as the promotion of day care places to improve the compatibility of work and family life, we were not able to increase the proportion of women. In the year under review, Helvetia therefore introduced additional activities, for example in Switzerland. We conducted an analysis in the sales force to find out why not more women are working in sales. The results were intensively discussed at the annual General Agents’ Conference. Among other measures, it was agreed as a goal to hire 40 new female sales representatives in 2020. At the same time, more part-time positions in the sales force have been and are being advertised. Job adverts have been re-designed using images and text in such a way that women can be addressed. Joining the gender equality network ‘Advance’ in 2019 is also a measure by which we hope to actively increase the proportion of women in Switzerland, particularly in management positions. Salary and equal opportunities A review of salaries by the Competence Centre for Diversity & Inclusion at the University of GRI 103-3 St.Gallen in the year under review confirmed that Helvetia paid fair salaries in accordance with the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work’. In the reporting year, Helvetia Italy was recognized for its efforts in the area of gender diversity as one of the twenty leading companies in terms of equal opportunities. Moreover, in our domestic market Switzerland, we employ staff with psychological or physical handicaps and in this way enable them to continue to participate in working life. In 2019, this corresponded to 13 full-time equivalents. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 50 Employee performance reviews and succession management GRI 404-3 Most Helvetia Group employees take part in annual formalised performance reviews with their superiors, in which, in addition to the achievement of objectives, the current work situation and the aptitude for further development is discussed. The performance reviews, which take place at regular intervals, offer the opportunity to give feedback to the manager on the current working experience, cooperation within the team and work-life balance. Following the example of Switzerland, other country markets are gradually transitioning to annual performance reviews as well. Proportion of employees with regular performance reviews1 Change compared in % 2016 2017 2018 2019 to previous year in % GRI 404-3 Women 84.2 71.6 73.4 67.5 −8.1 Men 86.3 78.1 74.0 71.7 −3.1 Executive Board members 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 0.0 Management 98.2 94.5 88.0 83.0 −5.7 Specialists 88.8 87.3 75.7 82.3 8.7 Clerks 82.6 70.0 74.6 65.7 −12.0 Junior staff 95.9 99.1 88.9 9.32 −89.5 Total 86.4 76.8 73.75 70.1 −4.9 1 U  nits and corporations within Helvetia’s consolidated companies, such as Smile Insurance, Helvetia Service AG, ERV and MoneyPark (see the financial report 2019, p. 180), were not taken into account. The proportions are all calculated based on the total number of employees in the Helvetia Group. 2 U niversity interns (75.4 FTEs) with temporary employment contracts (generally 6–12 months) are not included. They do not receive regular performance evaluations as they are employed on a temporary basis and are active in a clearly defined area after an initial training period. The table lists all employees who take part in formalised performance reviews with their managers. The sharp decline in the number of junior staff is due to the fact that they no longer take part in standard performance reviews but are assessed on site by the Young Talent Management team and specialist trainers in accordance with their training objectives. As part of the Group-wide Helvetia succession management process, which coordinates the preparation of employees for more extensive management functions, 16 talent conferences were held in Switzerland in 2019. A further 11 conferences were held in the country markets. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 51 ? DIVÖRSITY project 2019 A blind date for a career with Helvetia Austria Vienna – As part of a pilot project, Helvetia Insurance Austria has been labelling its job adverts as ‘a blind career date’ – ‘blind’ here meaning in the literal sense. The ‘blind date’ already starts with the application. General Directorate for Austria in Vienna used an anonymous application form on the homepage and requested its candidates to simply leave out their name, age, gender and nationality. Numerous applications were submitted anonymously via the website and interviews were held ‘blindly’ behind a curtain. The results were pleasing on both sides: two candidates made it to the second round. Equal opportunities remains a top priority. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 52 Employee commitment GRI 103-1 Committed employees and an open culture of sharing ideas and making mistakes are prerequisites for our employees assuming responsibility in their respective areas and integrating CR commitment to all relevant business processes and decisions. They strengthen innovative energy and, as a result, also the resilience of Helvetia to respond to challenges in the ESG area and beyond. This is why we promote a corporate and business culture in which initiative and participation are requested, encouraged and valued. Employees can only develop their potential in an open environment where calculated risks are taken and new ideas and innovation are valued. This requires formal contact points and opportunities for participation, such as regular feedback meetings with the supervisor and the (legally provided) opportunities for employees to participate or to receive advice. Furthermore, regular campaigns and workshops address motivated employees and encourage them to actively participate in the further development of innovations, within and across departments. Employee co-determination GRI 103-2 The legal requirements for the participation of Helvetia employees differ in the individual countries, in some cases considerably. Helvetia grants all employees the participation opportunities legally provided for and grants them the opportunity to organise themselves in employee representative bodies. While in Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy and France the rights of employees are represented by works councils and trade unions, co-determination in the Swiss domestic market has been regulated for 15 years through a voluntary agreement between the personnel commission ‘PEKO’ and Helvetia as an employer. Helvetia has set up a European forum with representatives of the EU market units for the cross-border exchange of information and consultation of employees. It meets at least once a year, chaired by Executive Management member for Europe, Markus Gemperle. The collective wage agreement structure also differs considerably between the national markets. While in the Swiss insurance industry no collective labour agreements exists, in Spain, for example, all employees, with the exception of interns, are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Commitment to and empowerment for sustainability GRI 103-2 Helvetia supports employees who devote time to volunteer in politics society and for environmental protection. Employees have the opportunity, in consultation with their manager, to take sabbaticals or unpaid leave for personal commitments. Working time can also be made available for a corresponding commitment. The specific arrangements in this matter fall within the competence of country markets. As a modern company that acknowledges its responsibility towards the environment and society, our CR strategy incorporates our employees. Our workforce has a significant impact for example on our consumption of energy and resources. It is therefore worth sensitising them and motivating them to act in an environmentally friendly manner. At the same time, an increasing number of Helvetia employees don’t just care about having work that is well paid, but want work that enables them to do good. This has a strong influence on their commitment and motivation. Various measures motivate employees to learn more about sustainability and adapt their behaviour. Regular information and campaigns in the areas of energy, mobility, resources and equal opportunities are published on the intranet. On the interactive ‘Idea’ platform employees can submit their suggestions for improvements and have them assessed. With this approach we bring in new momentum and impulses within Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 53 teams and improve the working atmosphere. Concrete measures from the CR programme are also frequently addressed in communications of our CEO, Executive Management, Executive Boards within our market entities and business lines. In doing so, we want to integrate sustainability as a value even more strongly into our corporate culture. 2019 review and progress The percentage of employees with contractual terms governed by collective wage agreeGRI 103-3 ments was virtually unchanged compared to previous year. In Switzerland there are no employees with a collective bargaining agreement, as the personnel commission in Switzerland has the legal and democratically legitimised responsibility to protect the interests of Helvetia employees. Share of employees with collective bargaining agreements Change compared in % 2016 2017 2018 2019 to previous year in % GRI 102-41 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 – Germany 86.2 86.5 87.2 87.7 0.5% Italy 97.4 96.7 95.9 95.8 −0.1% Spain 100.0 98.6 98.8 100.0 1.2% Austria 82.0 83.0 78.4 79.8 1.9% France 99.9 100.0 100.0 98.0 −2.0% Helvetia total 1 40.3 40.0 38.1 38.1 −0.2% 1 T he figures in this table are based on unrounded numbers and may therefore show differences due to rounding. Personnel commission Switzerland Every three years, elections are held for the members of the personnel commission (PEKO) in Switzerland. In August 2019, employees were called on to register as candidates for the 2020 to 2022 term of office. The portraits of the thirteen candidates for the two constituencies – internal service and sales force – were published on the intranet in October. Employee satisfaction survey Own indicator In June 2019, ‘Pulsmesser’ survey was launched. ‘Pulsmesser’ replaces the ‘Commit’ employee survey, which was carried out every three years until 2016. The ‘Pulsmesser’ survey will be conducted twice a year with the help of an external provider. Participation is voluntary and anonymous. The focus is on questions that assess general conditions, such as organisation and processes, corporate culture, leadership behaviour, targets and performance incentives and the flow of information. In addition, focus surveys can be conducted on changing content. With a response rate of 50 per cent, the results of the first ‘Pulsmesser’ survey for Helvetia Switzerland show a very positive picture. Compared to the already good results of the 2016 ‘Commit’ survey, all dimensions measured have improved further. The results of the ‘Pulsmesser’ survey were discussed with division management teams. Based on these discussions, any necessary measures for further improvement have been taken. The second ‘Pulsmesser’ survey will be conducted in all Helvetia countries in March 2020. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 54 Sustainability perspectives for employees GRI 103-3 In the year under review, our 300 junior staff members (apprentices, interns and university trainees) were actively involved in promoting a sustainable future for Helvetia. Graduates of the Helvetia trainee programme in Switzerland benefited from the opportunity to explore and understand the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) during a workshop. On ‘Inspiration Day‘, young Helvetia employees discussed leadership and sustainability together with DisruptivePlay and oikos. Helvetia has been supporting the oikos international foundation, a leading student organisation for sustainability in business and administration, since it was founded over 30 years ago. In collaboration with the myclimate foundation, Helvetia also launched a pilot competition to become more environmentally friendly with the help of its apprentices. Fifty apprentices in the second year of apprenticeship participated in the competition, announced by the Swiss Young Talent Management team. They took advantage of the opportunity to plan a sustainability project at Helvetia over the course of several weeks. Some project teams, for example, focussed on eliminating plastic cups within the company, others on the development of a platform with sustainability tips for employees and yet others worked on the introduction of a bonus system to reduce internal paper consumption. Since the end of June 2019, Helvetia has been offering all employees in Switzerland the opportunity to use the search engine Ecosia, a green alternative to the Helvetia standard browser. Ecosia supports international reforestation projects based on the number of searches and ad clicks. The surprising thing was that it was introduced thanks to an employee initiative. A rollout in other Helvetia country markets is currently under review. Brilliant customer advice thanks to Helvetia’s junior staff More responsibility, direct customer contact and self-management – this is what junior staff want from their employers. Helvetia’s junior staff service centre has created something unique for the industry in Switzerland. From the team leaders to the call centre employees, all of the roles are taken over by apprentices, who deal with customer concerns in the area of motor vehicle insurance. Comprehensive training and coaching by a practical and a vocational trainer ensures that the apprentices are able to live up to their responsibility. The project, called ‘Brilliants@Helvetia’, has been so successful that the six-month pilot phase has been extended indefinitely. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 55 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally As a successful international insurance group, Helvetia maintains good and constructive relation with the locations where it operates. With its core business, it contributes to the local community by providing occupational benefit schemes for individuals as well as protecting investments and assets of small, medium and large companies. We also accept our responsibility as a ‘good neighbour’ and are actively committed to the environment and society. Public Policy Political communication, respect for rules and controls, reduction of complexity, efficiency GRI 103-1  and, in particular, principles like trust, integrity and Helvetia’s reputation have never been more important than they are today. Strategic political management enables us to find out what is happening around us and can help us to preserve our entrepreneurial options for action and initiate internal transformation. Helvetia’s policy management is based on its membership in associations. In this context, we use information management and specialist and committee work to pursue our goals and find a mutual industry position. This is reflected in the fact that Helvetia’s CEO has a seat on the Executive Board of the Swiss Insurance Association for several years. The environment for insurance companies is constantly evolving due to technological change, demographic challenges and increasing regulations. Helvetia is in constant dialogue with administrations, politics, science, competitors and civil society on with regard to these aspects. In particular international capital and Solvency standards are central to our business. They enable us to prove that, even under difficult circumstances, there is sufficient assurance that we will be able to meet our obligations towards our insurance customers. The statutory reports by insurers aim to make the financial situation of companies transparent to the general public. Public Affairs Policy GRI 103-2 Helvetia is committed to creating the most conducive political and regulatory framework possible through an active, responsible and permanent dialogue with various social actors and stakeholders. We want to create an environment that allows us to to proactively incorporate trends into our business activities, minimise barriers and actively manage reputational risks. In order to do so, we address key issues such as the challenges of pensions and the changes to data protection law in the wake of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Our political work includes engaging with concrete legislative plans, formulating contributions to political discussions, taking part in political consultations or direct discussions with decision makers, and participating in hearings. Organisation Public Policy is organizationally located in the Public Affairs department, which is part of the CEO Office. Helvetia is committed to the professional standards of the Swiss Society of Public Affairs (SSPA) and integrated the ‘Code de Lisbonne’, the European Code of Professional Conduct in Public Relations in its professional conduct. The Public Affairs department coordinates the activities within the Group, is active in the Swiss domestic market and monitors the relevant developments at the European and international level. At the operational level, the countries develop individual plans for working with different stakeholders. In particular, this includes maintaining relationships with important stakeholders such as specialised politicians and ministries. When it comes to local communication, maintaining good relationships in the surrounding area, being involved in the community and remaining in contact with municipal administrations is a necessity. This is a regular topic of discussion among all countries at group level. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 56 Guidelines for political work GRI 103-2 Our Public Affairs Policy formulates long-term normative guidelines for Helvetia Group and its country markets. At its heart lies participation in the current political formation of opinion related to core business activities. This occurs via cooperation within local industry associations. In these, we coordinate positions and represent them transparently and reliably. The country markets are involved in stakeholder discussions, knowledge transfer, studies, media reports and events. The aim here is particularly to distribute relevant information and expertise as a basis for informed decision making. Political sponsoring is only possible in accordance with clearly defined criteria, for example in the form of event sponsoring for selected topics, support of politically committed employees and political party financing in the Swiss home market. The principles for the latter are laid down in the ‘Helvetia party financing’ policy. Since 2016, a maximum of CHF 123,000 has been available for constituency work. All of the parties represented in the Swiss Federal Assembly and more than half of those active in Swiss cantons are eligible to receive a contribution on request that they can dispose of freely, without a political quid pro quo. The contribution is based on the respective parliamentary mandates: the total sum is distributed in halves to the two chambers, the National Council and Council of States, corresponding to a contribution of about CHF 308 per National Council and about CHF 1,337 per Council of States mandate. This transparency is in harmony line with the recommendations of the European Council committee GRECO (Group of States against Corruption). On request, Helvetia Switzerland also supports the candidacies of employees for political mandates at a cantonal and national level. As part of its support for the political militia system, Helvetia makes it easier for the relevant employees to combine work with their political engagement, e.g.through appropriate adjustment of working hours. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In the year under review, CHF 85,523 of the total amount available for party financing was GRI 415-1 drawn. Membership in the Swiss Insurance Association A key focus of Helvetia’s work on the Executive Board and committees of the Swiss Insurance Association in 2019 was its involvement in defining the new association strategy for 2020– 2024. Guidelines were developed for the main focus areas of ‘Sustainability’ and ‘Care for young and old’, and targets and measures were formulated for each guideline by the responsible committees. Helvetia has offered to play a leading role in the new sustainability commission, which will start working at the beginning of 2020. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 57 Tour de Suisse on Responsible Business GRI 103-3 On 9 September 2019, members and interested companies met at Helvetia to assess the current situation with a view to successfully implementing the Sustainable Development Goals. Ten years remain to implement the Agenda 2030 and achieve the global sustainability goals. In light of this, the Global Compact Network Switzerland (GCNS) initiated the Tour de Suisse on Responsible Business in 2018. In collaboration with the IHK St. Gallen-Appenzell, the fifth stage of the event series visited Helvetia in St. Gallen on 9 September. Environmental and climate management was the main topic – a highly relevant one considering the Federal Council’s recent decision to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Switzerland to net zero by 2050. The discussion centred around concrete questions on environmental management. Topics ranged from cost savings due to greater energy and resource efficiency to the integration of environmental and climate risk management into the value chain and the creation of market opportunities through environmentally friendly products and services. Promotion of militia system Helvetia strongly supported the ‘year of volunteering work’ headed by the Association of GRI 103-2 Swiss municipalities in 2019. An ideas competition awarded prizes to promising ideas to Video link further develop the militia system. At workshops and events organised by the umbrella organisation of Swiss youth parliaments, young politicians and parliamentarians were able to play an active role in the social debate with innovative reform proposals. Our politically active and engaged employees took advantage of the regular networking events focusing on militia work in 2019 to discuss the topic across industries and engage in direct dialogue with members of the Federal Assembly. A video campaign presenting short portraits of politically active employees rounded off the activities in terms of communication. Helvetia’s commitment continues beyond 2019: in 2020, we will support a study that investigates possible improvements in the relationship between business and militia system. ceo4climate On 19 September 2019, Philipp Gmür together with 72 CEOs and managing directors submitted a letter to the Council of States calling for the adoption of an ambitious CO2 law. In doing so, Helvetia is acting in accordance with its environmental and climate targets to promote climate protection, preserve natural resources and pursue an effective Swiss and international climate policy to ensure that the Paris Climate Convention is implemented. The concrete demands made by ceo4climate include a binding reduction path to net zero CO2 emissions by 2050, and transparency regarding the climate-related impact, risks and opportunities of financial products and investments. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 58 Corporate Citizenship Helvetia sees itself as part of society and, as a result, also as a stakeholder at the locations GRI 103-1  where it operates. It makes a contribution to the positive development of the environment and society through donations in the form of working time, expertise and funding. Especially in the country markets with a strong sales force network, the employees of Helvetia are closely involved in the local communities and thus have a good understanding of the needs of the population. With our Corporate Citizenship commitment, we would like to play an active role and make a social contribution, which extends beyond the occupational benefit scheme and the protection of investments with our non-life business. Helvetia and the people who work for it should have a positive influence primarily through its business, but also through its voluntary commitment for customers and society. In contrast to traditional sponsoring, where clearly defined quid pro quos are agreed, we understand public welfare commitment as promotion or support for which our service goes clearly beyond any counter performance (such as in the form of communication). Community engagement We focus our commitment on the four core areas of protection forests, cooperation with the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation, art, and the promotion of health and popular sports. Together with our employees, we also support smaller local projects and initiatives. These are based on local needs and permit the country markets and sales force units to set their own priorities. However, the basic principle is always the connection to our core business and close alignment with our central values of ‘drive’, ‘trust’ and ‘enthusiasm’. Helvetia is also active in traditional sponsoring, especially in sport sponsoring. In organisational terms, Helvetia’s citizenship activities are primarily coordinated by Branding, Corporate Responsibility, Communications and Human Resources. Thus far, Helvetia has not yet adopted a more systematic approach to recording, coordinating and measuring the impact of its charitable commitments. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-2, 103-3 In the year under review, around 350 projects were supported in the Helvetia Group with a total of CHF 3.5 million. This did not include the expenditure for protection forest commitment and the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 59 Public welfare commitment: number of projects and support amount Number in CHF Number in CHF Number in CHF GRI Own indicator 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 Switzerland 239 1,871,300 210 2,200,000 272 2,812,803 Germany 22 21,334 22 22,374 1 5,556 Italy 6 14,784 7 15,533 9 17,889 Spain 49 825,102 63 848,164 59 710,265 Austria 3 8,288 5 7,732 8 6,078 France 1 36,960 6 139,223 1 11,111 Helvetia total 320 2,777,768 313 3,233,025 349 3,563,701 The increase in public welfare spending in 2019 is mainly due to greater social commitment in Switzerland as part of the further establishment of our brand identity. Protection forest initiative GRI 103-2 Protection forests make a major contribution to the protection of settlements and infrastructure against rockfall, landslides, mudflows or avalanches. In collaboration with our largest shareholder, Patria Genossenschaft, we have been involved in the (re)forestation and maintenance of such forests since 2011. The support funds are entirely provided by Patria Genossenschaft. Helvetia covers all personnel, administrative and communication expenses and manages the measures taken from development through to the implementation of the initiative. Thus 100 per cent of the donations can be used for the projects and sensitisation to natural hazards. Protection forests need to be thinned every 15 to 30 years. The protection forest projects are therefore developed, implemented and maintained in close collaboration with local forest authorities. Patria Genossenschaft finances the planting of around 10,000 trees per project. Employees, Helvetia customers and third parties can participate in the plantings through the acquisition of tree passes and thus help to make the protection forest grow more quickly. Alpine Protection Forest Award Helvetia The Alpine Protection Forest Award Helvetia has been part of our work since 2014. The prize, awarded in collaboration with the Consortium of Alpine Forestry Associations provides a platform for innovative, practice-oriented protection forest projects. Each year, awards are given for the best concepts among school projects and successful projects, and for communications and public relations work. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 60 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In the year under review, Patria Genossenschaft donated around CHF 280,000 to protection forest commitment. This was used to implement seven new protection forest projects in four Helvetia countries. Over the course of the initiative, Helvetia and Patria Genossenschaft have realized 42 protection forest projects and supported the planting of 430,000 trees in the European Alpine region. For the first time, employees in Switzerland took part in protection forest volunteering. Intended as a ‘different kind of departmental excursion’, teams from various areas participated in forest replanting. Led by the project manager for Swiss protection forest projects, several volunteering work assignments were organised. In cooperation with the Office for Forests and Natural Hazards (Amt für Wald und Naturgefahren) of Mittelbünden/Moesano, the Splügen region was selected, which had been heavily damaged by a storm in June 2019. Four projects in Switzerland and Austria were honoured with an Alpine Protection Forest Award in the year under review. The title of ‘protection forest patron’ went to Raphael SchwitVideo link ter from Graubünden. As a forest engineer and head of the specialist unit for mountain forest maintenance at the forest education centre in Maienfeld, Schwitter has ensured that gen­ erations of foresters have been able to carry out their prevention and maintenance work with expert knowledge and dedication, helping preserve the forest’s protective function. For the first time, Helvetia and Patria Genossenschaft in St.Gallen also received a prize. The Consortium of Alpine Forestry Associations hounoured the exemplary joint commitment of Helvetia and Patria Genossenschaft to cross-border natural hazard prevention with the ‘Helvetia protection forest prize’, which is awarded only once. Teaching material on the topic of protection forests continues to be provided on the Swiss school platform kiknet. As part of the teaching module, school classes can, among other things, take a protection forest excursion and visit one of Helvetia’s planting areas. Following an introduction by the local forest ranger, they then have the opportunity to plant trees themselves. The one-day excursion is supported by the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation. Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation GRI 103-2 The Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation is a Swiss foundation for children and young people. It was founded in 1978 on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Patria Genossenschaft. Helvetia works closely with the foundation. The foundation supports projects that promote the physical and mental skills of the younger generation. It supports, among other things, leisure activities, theatre performances and music projects involving young people, and provides toys and equipment for nurseries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 61 Helvetia Patria Jeunesse covers concrete expenses arising from the projects, such as catering, accommodation, travel, theatre costumes, stage sets, toys and non-cash prizes. In doing so, the foundation ensures that its distribution of funds is in line with the charitable aims of its founder. Applicants are usually small, private, charitable organisations and institutions. The work of the foundation is supported by Helvetia’s General Agencies. Among other things, they accept applications, pass them on to the foundation office, help the foundation verify projects and, in the case of a commitment of the Board of trustees, coordinate the handover of symbolic prize cheques to applicants. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In addition to its work in Switzerland, the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation has also been active in Austria since 2018 and in Germany since 2019. In 2019, it supported 102 projects with a total of CHF 337,450. The total amount of funding distributed was higher than the previous year (CHF 291,058). Broken down by country, 74 applicants were supported in Switzerland with a total of CHF 275,578. The remaining sum (CHF 61,872) was allocated to 21 projects in Austria and seven in Germany. Art commitment GRI 103-2 With the art insurance company Artas, Helvetia is active in the safeguarding of works of art in its core business. In addition, it is actively commited to art and artists. The Swiss domestic market has been the focus of this commitment to date as it has its origins in the insurance company Nationale Suisse, which was integrated into Helvetia in 2015. Helvetia maintains a large art collection with roughly 1,800 works by around 400 artists and awards the Helvetia Art Prize, worth CHF 15,000, to a young Swiss artist every year. As part of its art commitment, Helvetia is trying to lower the threshold and widen the audience for art appreciation in addition to this starter fund. For example, digitisation projects in cooperation with renowned museums enable the archiving and cataloguing of selected collections. Based on this, participatory exhibition formats have been developed, which can then also be appreciated beyond the borders of Switzerland. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In the 2019 exhibition ‘Odyssee’, the Helvetia Art Foyer presented a wide range of works by Peter Wüthrich. The exhibition invited visitors to immerse themselves in the imaginative book cosmos of the Swiss artist. Wüthrich was born in Bern in 1962 and has worked exclusively with books since 1992. He creates various works such as drawings, graphics and paintings, often also three-dimensional works such as sculptures and installations, or photographs and videos. In 2019, the Helvetia Art Prize was awarded to Kaspar Ludwig, whose work spans a range of different areas. The award-winning work ‘Why should I buy pillows when all I want is Video link sleep’ presents pillow sculptures made from metal sheets inflated with compressed air as a floor-based sound installation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 62 The offer of tours as part of the exhibition series ‘Kunst zum Dessert’ (Art for Dessert) is diGRI 103-3 rected at Helvetia employees in Switzerland. A particular highlight in the year under review was the tour of the ‘Borrowed Light’ exhibition with the artist Julia Steiner, who transformed the Helvetia Art Foyer into a walk-in drawing made of light and shadow. Health and popular sports GRI 103-2 Helvetia takes an active part in sports sponsoring, focused on Alpine sports and football, primarily in its Swiss domestic market and Austria. Helvetia has partnered with Schweizer Sporthilfe since 2009 to promote young sporting talent and support the next generation of Swiss athletes. Helvetia also supports numerous popular sports activities in all of its country markets. This includes the Helvetia Skifit training sessions, which sports clubs can book to get their members fit for winter sports. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 As a partner of Schweizer Sporthilfe, Helvetia acted as a sponsor for two young female athletes in 2019. The selected athletes received CHF 2,000 a year in support from Schweizer Sporthilfe. As part of Helvetia Skifit, which has been bringing pure sporting pleasure to training for twelve years from clubs throughout Switzerland, a total of 220 training sessions were held. Video link In the year under review, the offer was again directed at sports groups that regularly meet with great enthusiasm for joint training. Helvetia’s instructors provided fun and varied winter sports training. The commitment to promoting mass sports was rounded off by numerous smaller donations, which enabled sports clubs throughout Switzerland to hold competitions. Local projects and initiatives GRI 103-2 Long-term business success is only possible in a socially sound and economically stable environment. Together with our employees, we aim to be a reliable partner and contribute to the development of our business regions above and beyond our core business. In the year under review, this was reflected in a wide range of initiatives through which our employees made personal contributions to society and the environment participated part in projects. 2019 review and progress GRI 103-3 In Switzerland, Helvetia employees once again ran together for a good cause in 2019. For the third time, the annual company run ‘B2Run’ became a fundraising event. For every kilometre run, the CompiSternli foundation – which Helvetia and the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse foundation have been supporting for many years – received a generous donation for the preparation, organisation and administration of CompiSternli training. Our country markets also supported various charitable projects. As part of the ‘Puces de Mer’ project, 200 employees at Helvetia France collected donations for the organisation Les Sauveteurs en Mer (SNSM) by purchasing their old laptops when they were replaced with a new device. The donations were contributing to the funding of a new boat for the rescue organisation. In March 2019, Helvetia Italy became a partner of the non-profit organisation Telefono Donna, which provides 24/7 telephone support to victims of domestic violence. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 CR progress 63 Furniture for schools, hospitals and public offices GRI 103-3 In 2019, Helvetia used four articulated trucks to deliver furniture that was no longer needed at its headquarters in Basel to the Romanian city of Turda. Thanks to the collaboration with the foundation ‘Hilfe für Kinder und alte Menschen’ (Help for children and the elderly), the furniture is once again being used in schools, hospitals, public offices, police stations, care homes, etc. The initiative was launched in 2015, when various branches were closed as part of the merger with Nationale Suisse. Instead of disposing surplus, unused furniture, Helvetia’s Facility Management looked for a more sustainable solution and thus came across the foundation. Ever since, furniture that is no longer needed is regularly collected and transported to Romania in collective shipments. To thank us for our support, Helvetia was invited to Romania by the foundation in October. The mayor, Cristian-Octavian Matei, expressed his gratitude for our support on behalf of the city of Turda, saying that our contribution helps improve the infrastructure in the city’s public offices, hospitals and schools. Carla del Ponte receives the Erich Walser Generations Prize 2019 At the World Demographic Ageing (WDA) Forum 2019, Carla Del Ponte was awarded the Erich Walser Generations Prize, which is donated by Helvetia. Her laudatory speech was given by Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis. The prize is awarded to individuals who have made exemplary efforts to promoting understanding between the generations and to urgent social issues. In her acceptance speech, Carla Del Ponte recounted tales from her time as Chief Prosecutor and member of the UN Special Commission for Syria that were both impressive and distressing. She also revealed that she intended to invest the prize money from the Erich Walser Generations Prize in a project close to her heart: an NGO in Beirut that helps Syrian families escape across the border into the Beqaa Valley. ‘We provide transparent information on the development of our key figures.’ Overview of our key figures 66 Key figures employees 69 Key figures environment Key figures employees Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures 66 Group CH3 DE ES IT AT FR Change compared to previous 2018 2019 year in % 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Personnel structure GRI 102-8 in full-time equivalents (FTE)1 Executive Board members 51 61 19.8 21 28 6 8 7 8 7 7 5 5 5 5 Management 1,060 1,035 −2.3 635 645 105 100 84 39 113 121 65 70 58 60 Specialists 1,059 1,922 81.5 874 1,736 69 69 22 16 11 11 75 81 8 9 Clerks 4,399 3,799 −13.6 2,190 1,499 587 610 446 491 355 362 590 602 231 234 Junior staff 319 300 −6.0 233 220 24 23 7 4 21 22 16 14 18 17 Temporary employees 62 12 −80.6 54 7 7 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees total 6,949 7,128 2 2.6 4,007 4,134 798 815 566 558 507 523 751 772 320 325 Fluctuation rate (departures in % of existing personnel) 9.5 8.6 −9.6 7.7 7.9 15.1 9.9 11.5 9.7 8.9 7.8 7.8 8.2 19.74 15.1 Internal service 5,351 5,509 2.9 2,986 3,083 676 699 397 396 507 523 465 482 320 325 Sales force 1,597 1,619 1.4 1,021 1,052 122 116 169 162 – – 286 290 – – Female temporary employees 239 212 −11.3 158 158 16 12 25 12 14 13 8 7 18 10 Male temporary employees 190 191 0.7 135 142 21 21 8 3 7 9 10 7 9 9 Total temporary employees 430 404 −6.0 293 300 37 34 33 15 21 22 19 15 27 19 Full-time female employees 2,303 2,381 3.4 1,142 1,159 289 308 221 231 206 218 277 293 167 173 Full-time male employees 4,216 4,344 3.0 2,572 2,675 472 474 312 313 279 284 456 465 126 134 Total full-time employees 6,519 6,725 3.1 3,715 3,835 761 782 533 543 486 501 733 758 293 306 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures 67 Group CH3 DE ES IT AT FR Change compared to previous 2018 2019 year in % 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Female temporary employment ratio in % 25.3 25.4 0.5 32.4 32.7 27.0 26.3 0.8 0.0 11.1 9.8 31.3 33.3 13.0 11.9 GRI 102-8 Male temporary employment ratio in % 4.1 4.5 8.3 5.8 6.2 3.2 3.7 0.9 0.2 1.0 0.8 2.1 2.5 2.1 3.1 Total temporary employment ratio in % 12.1 12.5 2.9 14.7 15.2 12.4 12.6 0.6 0.0 5.1 4.4 13.2 14.4 7.5 7.2 Diversity ≤ 29 years of age 1,270 1,294 1.9 868 888 111 112 32 32 33 44 172 172 53 46 30 – 39 years of age 1,457 1,529 4.9 888 942 138 153 110 100 85 74 158 176 78 84 40 – 49 years of age 1,803 1,819 0.9 936 951 212 199 211 200 194 198 162 173 87 97 50 – 59 years of age 1,979 2,028 2.5 1,063 1,099 269 285 167 170 172 176 227 219 82 80 ≥ 60 years of age 441 458 3.9 253 255 68 65 46 56 23 31 32 32 20 19 Female ratio ≤ 29 years of age in % 49.9 48.4 −3.1 49.5 48.2 50.5 48.5 62.5 56.3 66.7 56.8 44.0 43.0 56.6 58.5 Female ratio 30 – 39 years of age in % 39.8 40.2 1.1 33.7 33.2 44.3 47.0 66.6 67.0 52.9 56.6 33.3 43.0 61.5 55.0 Female ratio 40 – 49 years of age in % 35.2 35.2 0.2 29.4 28.1 38.9 42.4 44.5 47.6 40.3 41.5 34.5 33.3 55.4 55.7 Female ratio 50 – 59 years of age in % 29.6 29.9 1.0 22.8 23.8 32.0 31.8 23.2 26.6 41.6 41.1 43.3 41.4 59.7 57.5 Female ratio ≥ 60 years of age in % 24.8 22.8 −8.0 21.2 19.1 28.8 27.9 43.5 30.4 16.5 29.0 8.5 5.3 50.0 52.6 Female ratio total in % 36.6 36.4 −0.6 32.4 31.9 38.3 39.3 43.5 43.5 43.5 44.1 38.0 38.8 57.8 56.2 Female ratio in management roles in % 19.4 19.9 2.5 16.6 16.0 17.3 18.5 16.7 33.3 19.5 20.7 21.6 22.7 55.2 50.1 Female ratio on Executive Board in % 2.34 2.1 −6.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 14.3 12.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Female ratio on Board of Directors in % 20.0 25.0 25.0 – – – – – – – – – – – – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures 68 Group CH3 DE ES IT AT FR Change compared to previous 2018 2019 year in % 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Training: average in hours GRI 404-1 Sales force 34 51 52.4 30 37 2 8 43 104 – – 56 92 – – Internal service 8 20 142.3 6 23 1 12 20 17 19 23 27 37 14 12 Total 20 28 44.6 19 26 1 12 27 42 19 23 38 57 14 12 Women 17 27 56.1 17 27 1 12 27 28 18 20 28 58 14 11 Men 21 29 39.1 20 26 1 12 27 535 19 25 45 57 14 13 Executive Board members 20 17 −15.6 0 0 4 14 44 48 36 56 87 25 4 6 Management 19 26 38.9 17 21 4 23 31 46 24 39 28 50 21 13 Specialists 9 27 212.9 7 27 1 35 39 30 18 61 24 20 12 13 Clerks 12 24 97.5 8 19 1 10 26 42 18 17 24 44 13 13 1 The figures in this table are based on unrounded numbers and may therefore show differences due to rounding. Comparisons between years are calculated based on unrounded figures. 2 Incl. junior staff and temporary workers, in contrast to the total number of 6,829 employees mentioned on p. 5 and in the Company brochure. 3 The figures for Switzerland include some FTEs based abroad (Active Reinsurance Singapore and SpL International), which are not listed separately due to their small volumes. 4 Value adjusted compared with 2018 report. 5 Training hours for sales force employees are not recorded separately by gender. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures 69 Key figures environment GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Helvetia Group 20192 Change compared Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 to previous year in % Absolute consumption Electricity kWh 24,188,445 28,780,787 26,944,323 30,701,325 27,367,507 25,555,560 −6.6% Heating kWh 16,915,752 18,421,375 18,815,315 17,772,190 17,436,683 16,585,898 −4.9% Business travel km 33,929,954 49,346,040 47,925,503 50,646,913 48,300,739 48,644,847 0.7% Paper t 682 528 665 695 676 625 −7.5% Water m3 127,261 113,726 139,011 142,363 116,862 132,710 13.6% Waste t 1,048 1,199 1,276 1,318 1,334 1,659 24.3% Consumption per FTE Electricity kWh 4,509 4,312 4,157 4,593 3,938 3,585 −9.0% Heating kWh 3,153 2,760 2,903 2,659 2,509 2,327 −7.3% Business travel km 6,325 7,393 7,395 7,576 6,951 6,824 −1.8% Paper kg 127 79 103 100 97 88 −9.9% Water m 3 24 17 21 21 17 19 10.7% Waste kg 195 180 197 197 192 233 21.2% Absolute CO2 emissions Electricity t 4,337 572 436 385 396 357 −10.0% Heating t 2,747 3,116 3,368 3,016 2,926 2,960 1.2% Business travel t 9,314 11,054 10,696 11,269 10,804 10,553 −2.3% Paper t 821 636 800 836 813 751 −7.6% Water t 95 85 104 107 88 99 13.6% Waste t 206 217 222 247 227 276 21.2% Total t 17,520 15,679 15,626 15,859 15,254 14,996 −1.7% CO2 emissions per employee (FTE) Electricity kg 808 86 67 58 57 50 −12.2% Heating kg 512 467 520 451 421 415 −1.4% Business travel kg 1,736 1,656 1,650 1,686 1,555 1,480 −4.8% Paper kg 153 95 123 125 117 105 −9.9% Water kg 18 13 16 16 13 14 10.7% Waste kg 38 32 34 37 33 39 18.2% Total kg 3,266 2,349 2,411 2,372 2,195 2,104 −4.2% 1 Previous year values adjusted on the basis of improved data quality. see also p. 87, Assurance 2 Calculation of greenhouse gas emissions was carried out according to the methodology of the statement in the notes VfU sustainability network for financial institutions in the version of the reference year 2012. The environmental key figures of 2019 have been independently reviewed. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures Country markets 70 CH DE IT ES AT FR Unit 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Absolute consumption Electricity kWh 15,551,405 2,069,764 2,406,771 1,902,698 2,336,236 1,288,686 Heating kWh 11,101,223 1,421,698 1,833,685 428,740 1,800,553 – Business travel km 28,724,434 6,760,410 1,995,552 3,017,523 4,963,210 3,183,717 Paper t 228 32 114 77 168 5 Water m3 65,892 10,117 19,361 7,045 26,310 3,985 Waste t 805 165 172 118 363 37 Consumption per FTE Electricity kWh 3,762 2,539 4,601 3,409 3,025 3,960 Heating kWh 2,685 1,744 3,505 768 2,331 – Business travel km 6,948 8,294 3,815 5,406 6,426 9,784 Paper kg 55 40 218 138 217 16 Water m3 16 12 37 13 34 12 Waste kg 195 202 328 211 470 114 Absolute CO2 emissions Total t 8,706 2,021 1,146 761 1,716 646 Electricity t 184 73 28 22 34 15 Heating t 1,559 393 474 111 424 – Business travel t 6,491 1,487 476 511 982 608 Paper t 275 39 137 93 202 6 Water t 49 8 15 5 20 3 Waste t 148 22 18 19 55 14 Reduction of > 2% +/– 2% change Increase of > 2 % compared to the previous year Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Overview of our key figures 71 CH DE IT ES AT FR GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Unit 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend 2019 Trend CO2 emissions per employee (FTE) Total kg 2,106 2,479 2,191 1,363 2,222 1,985 Electricity kg 44 90 54 40 44 47 Heating kg 377 482 905 198 549 – Business travel kg 1,570 1,824 909 915 1,271 1,868 Paper kg 66 48 261 166 261 19 Water kg 12 9 28 9 26 9 Waste kg 36 27 34 34 71 42 Reduction of > 2% +/– 2% change Increase of > 2 % compared to the previous year Greenhouse gas balance sheet of the Helvetia country companies Greenhouse gas balance sheet of the Helvetia Group GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 10 000 6905 7352 9 000 8 000 THG 7 000 6 000 5 000 739 4 000 Scope 1 3 000 Scope 2 (market-based) 2 000 Scope 3 in tonnes of CO2 1000 0 CH DE AT FR IT ES Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Scope 3 in tonnes of CO2 ‘We report according to the internationally recognised GRI standards and have our environmental data independently audited.’ Notes 74 About this report 75 GRI Content Index 80 Index on non-financial information 87 Legal notice 88 Assurance report for environmental figures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 74 About this report For the third time, Helvetia Holding AG is providing information on its corporate GRI 102-45 responsibility activities in the entire Group in the form of this report. Reporting for the country markets Switzerland and Spain occurred for the first time for the years 2012 to 2016. The report simultaneously serves to disclose the non-financial information of the country markets Germany and Spain in compliance with the country-specific implementation of the EU Directive 2014/95. The country companies Italy and Austria publish CR reports independently that refer to this CR Report of the Helvetia Group. The Helvetia Group issues a CR Report GRI 102-52 annually. Unless stated otherwise, the data and information listed in this CR Report of Helvetia Holding GRI 102-48,  102-50 AG refer to the financial year 2019 (1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019) and supplement the Company brochure 2019 and the financial report 2019. The data from the previous year were in part adjusted on account of improvements in data collection. This is indicated at the corresponding place in each case by a footnote. If the report refers to ‘Helvetia’, this means the Helvetia Group. We collected the information carefully. Information marked has been externally reviewed GRI 102-56  by Ernst & Young AG (limited assurance). s ee also p. 87, Assurance statement in the notes This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. You can find an overview of the standards selected and the corresponding references in the GRI ConGRI 102-54 tent Index. At the same time, this report serves as a progress report in the meaning of the UN Global Compact. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 75 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55  For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI reviewed that the GRI Content Index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. This GRI service was conducted on the German version of this report. GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Page Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure number further sources Organisational profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation Helvetia Insurance General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 5 You can find a detailed description Disclosures 2016 services in the Company brochure 2019 pp. 23–29. 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-4 Location of operations 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5 Helvetia Holding AG, with its registered office in St.Gallen, is a Swiss limited company listed on the Swiss stock market (SIX). 102-6 Markets served 5 Company brochure 2019, p. 23 102-7 Scale of the organisation 5 Company brochure 2019, cover page Financial report 2019, p. 179 102-8 Information on employees and other 66/67 Helvetia did not employ any suworkers pervised workers in the year under review. 102-9 Supply chain 17/40 102-10 Significant changes to the There were no important changes in organisation and its supply chain the corporate structure in the year under review (e.g. acquisitions or sales) compared to the previous year. 102-11 Precautionary principle 38 Financial report 2019, pp. 4–7 or approach Company brochure 2019, pp. 46–47 102-12 External initiatives 22 102-13 Membership of associations 22 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 3 decision-maker Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 8 Helvetia’s values, Company policy, norms of behaviour Code of Compliance Governance 102-18 Governance structure 19 Financial report 2019, pp. 13–29 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 76 Page Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure number further sources GRI 102: Stakeholder engagement General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21/22 Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 102-42 Identifying and selecting 20 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 20/21/22 engagement 102-44 Key topics and 21/22 concerns raised Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 74 Financial report 2019, pp. 177–179 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content 9/14 and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 14/15 102-48 Restatements of information 74 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period 74 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle 74 102-53 Contact point for questions 86 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 74 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index 75 102-56 External assurance 74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 77 Material topics Page Omissions and GRI Standard Disclosure number further sources Sustainable insurance offering GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 25 Management Approach its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 26 approach Specific Standard FS8: Monetary value of products and services 26/27 Disclosures for Financial designed to deliver specific environmental Services: Product Portfobenefit for each business line broken down lio 2013 by purpose Sustainable investments GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 28 Management Approach its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 28/29 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 29/30 approach Specific Standard FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive 28 Omission, no information available: Disclosures for Financial and negative environmental or social the share of assets subject to an Services: Active Ownerscreening ESG audit is currently only available ship 2013 for financial assets. The screening will be expanded to include other investment categories by 2025 (see p. 25). Customer expectations and protection GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 32 Management Apits boundary proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 32/33/34 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 32/33/34 approach GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concern33 Marketing and ing product and service information and Labelling 2016 labelling Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 78 Page Omissions and GRI Standard Disclosure number further sources GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 34 Customer Privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of 2016 customer data Corporate Governance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 35 Management Apits boundary proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 35/36/37 Financial report 2019, pp. 10–34 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36/37 approach GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training 37 Anti-corruption 2016 about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 37 actions taken GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regula37 Socioeconomic tions in the social and economic area Compliance 2016 Risk management GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 38 Financial report 2019, Management Apits boundary pp. 4–7 proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 38/39 Financial report 2019, pp. 4–7, components Company brochure 2019, pp. 46–47 103-3 Evaluation of the management 39 approach (Own indicator) Number of major projects reviewed Omission: no information available. The reason for the omission is low data quality due to a lack of internationally recognised methodology. In future, Helvetia aims to rely on the global guidance on the integration of environmental, social and governance risks into insurance underwriting that was published by the UNEP FI and PSI in November 2019. A report is being prepared for the 2025 strategy period accordingly. Sustainable procurement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 40 Management Apits boundary proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 40/41 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 41/42/43/ approach 44 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 40/69/70/ Emissions 2016 71 305-2 Energy indirect GHG 40/69/70/ emissions (Scope 2) 71 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 40/69/70/ 3) 71 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 79 Page Omissions and GRI Standard Disclosure number further sources Employee motivation GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 45 Company brochure 2019, Management Apits boundary pp. 44–45 proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 45/46/47 Company brochure 2019, components pp. 44–45 103-3 Evaluation of the management 47/48/49 approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 48/68 Training and Education employee 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees 50 receiving regular performance and career development reviews Employee commitment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 52 Management Approach its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 52 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 53/54 approach (Own indicator) Employee satisfaction 53 Omission: no information available. Due to the change in the employee survey, no data is available for the year under review. The next survey will take place in spring 2020. Public Policy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 55 Management Approach its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 55/56/57 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 56/57 approach GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions 56 Public Policy 2016 Corporate Citizenship GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 58 Management Approach its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 58/59/60/ components 61/62 103-3 Evaluation of the management 58/60/61/ approach 62/63 (Own indicator) Community Investments 59 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 80 Index on non-financial information Index on non-financial information according to the requirements of Spanish legislation (Ley 11/2018 en materia de Información No Financiera y Diversidad) The following table shows where information demanded according to Spanish legislation on non-financial reporting is to be found in the report. Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Employee and social Respect of Anti-bribery Environmental matters matters Human Rights and corruption Policies, CR Strategy 20.20 CR Strategy 20.20 CR Strategy 20.20 CR Strategy 20.20 Due-Diligence Risk management Employee Risk management Corporate Governance motivation Risk management Risk management Results and Indicators CO2 emissions and Attractive employer Comprehensive considCorporate Governance environmental manageeration ment of sustainability risks Key figures environment Main risks and Risk management Risk management Risk management Risk management risk management Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Business model Business model – Helvetia Group Environmental matters Pollution Measures to prevent, reduce Objectives CR Strategy or compensate carbon and other emissions (air 20.20 emissions, noise and light emissions) CO2 emissions and environmental management Sustainable and climatically responsible procurement Key figures environment Circular economy and Measures to prevent and eliminate waste, to Objectives CR Strategy waste management recycle and reuse 20.20 CO2 emissions and environmental management Actions against food waste – In our materiality analysis, this topic has been identified as being less relevant for the insurance sector. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 81 Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Sustainable resource Water use and water management in accordObjectives CR Stratemanagement ance with local limits gy 20.20 CO2 emissions and environmental management Key figures environment Raw materials used and measures to improve Key figures environAs an insurance provider, we focus on paper consumption material efficiency ment when reporting materials used. Energy consumption (direct and indirect), Procurement guidemeasures for energy efficiency and use of lines renewable energy CO2 emissions and environmental management Helvetia is climate neutral Climate change Carbon emissions (incl. emissions from the use Portfolio emissions of the company’s products and services) Objectives CR Strategy 20.20 CO2 emissions and environmental management Helvetia is climate neutral Key figures environment Measures to adapt to the effects of Portfolio emissions climate change Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks Mid-and long-term reduction targets for carObjectives CR Stratebon emissions and related measures gy 20.20 CO2 emissions and environmental management Biodiversity Measures to protect or restore biodiversity, bio– In our materiality analysis, this topic has been identified diversity impacts of the company and activities as being less relevant for the insurance sector. in protected areas Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 82 Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Employee and social matters Employment Total number of employees broken down by Key figures gender, age, country and employee category employees Contract types by permanent/temporary, by Key figures Data covers the number of contracts as of 31/12/2019. full-time/part-time and by gender, age and employees Variations throughout the year are minimal. employee category A breakdown of temporary contracts by age or employee category is not provided as temporary contracts account for less than 6 per cent of the workforce of Helvetia Group. The breakdown of part-time employees by age or employee category is not provided as part-time employees only account for less than 1 per cent of the workforce of Helvetia Seguros. Turnover by gender, age and employee Key figures Data collection systems currently do not allow reporting category employees the breakdown by gender, age and employee category. Average remuneration by gender, age and – Group and level men employee category. Gender pay gap Group 1 73,049.47 Group 2 35,862.85 Group 3 17,312.66 Group and level women Group 1 53,704.15 Group 2 28,335.41 Group 3 17,596.66 Group and level gender pay gap Group 1 26.48% Group 2 20.99% Group 3 −1.64% Salaries in terms of FTE and seniority. Fixed and variable remuneration included. Remuneration of equal or average jobs in – No data on sector average available. society Average remuneration of Executive Board and Information included in the Helvetia Seguros SFCR supervisory bodies, including variable remu2019 report neration, attendance fees and expenses p. 19: Compensación actual de los miembros del Comité de Dirección y Consejo de Administración. Payments to retirement plans Information included in the Helvetia Seguros SFCR 2019 report p. 19: Compensación actual de los miembros del Comité de Dirección y Consejo de Administración. Policies against continuous reachability of – There are no specific guidelines employees at Helvetia Seguros. Availability outside working hours is not required, however. Employees with disabilities Equal opportunities – and salary Working conditions Definition of working hours – The annual working time at Helvetia Seguros is 1,692 hours for full-time employment. Number of hours of absenteeism Employer of choice Due to materiality considerations, the topic has not been included in CR reporting so far. Numbers on absenteeism are therefore not reported. Measures for work-life balance, Diversity@Helvetia directed towards both parents Commitment to and enablement of sustainability Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 83 Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Health and safety Conditions for health and safety at work – In our materiality analysis, this topic has been identified as being less relevant for the insurance sector. Therefore, it is currently not included in reporting. Work-related injuries (incl. frequency and – seriousness) and work-related ill health by gender Labour/management Organisation of social dialogue, including proEmployee relations ceedings to inform, consult and negotiate with co-determination employees Percentage of employees covered by collective Employee bargaining agreements co-determination Share of employees with collective wage agreements Status of collective wage agreements, Employee Collective bargaining agreements for the insurance sector especially with regards to health and safety co-determination do not explicitly target health and safety aspects. Training Policies for training and further education Further education Customer satisfaction and advisory services Total hours of training by employee categories Training In accordance with GRI Standards, we report hours of training per employee (and not total hours of training). Accessibility Universal accessibility for persons with Over the course of the year, many measures were taken disabilities to improve accessibility on our website. Another review is planned in 2020 to identify and amend any shortcomings and enable us to achieve Level A conformity according to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Version 2.0. Equality Measures to ensure equal treatment Employee and equal opportunities between women and motivation men Cultural transformation ACHTUNG Diversity@Helvetia Anmerkung der Equality plans (Capitulo III de la Ley Organica Helvetia Seguros has a gender equality plan that includes Englisch-Übersetzer: 3/2007, de 22 de marzo, para la igualdad measures for equal treatment and equal opportunities – bitte bestätigen, ob die efectiva de mujeres y hombres) for men and women in the company and aims to prevent folgende Übersetzung gender inequality. A report with this information is drawn korrekt ist. Es stammt aus up annually. der Alignment, wir wollten nur sichen gehen, dass Measures regarding promotion Employee der spanische Satz dort motivation stehen soll. Active workforce management Policies against sexual harassment Employee and any discrimination based on gender, motivation disability or other criteria and diversity policies Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 84 Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Respect of Human Rights Respect of Implementation of human rights due diligence Objectives CR StrateHuman Rights gy 20.20 Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks Prevention of human rights risks Objectives CR Strateand measures to mitigate, manage and remegy 20.20 diate possible human rights abuses Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks Human rights grievances – None Promotion and compliance with ILO Employee conventions for freedom of association and co-determination collective bargaining Sustainable and climatically responsible procurement Abolition of forced labour Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks Sustainable and climatically responsible procurement Abolition of child labour Comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks Sustainable and climatically responsible procurement Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-bribery and Measures to prevent corruption Investment managecorruption and bribery ment Approach for reliable compliance Involvement of employees Measures against money laundering Approach for reliable compliance Involvement of employees Contributions to foundations 2019 review and or non-profit organisations progress Society Commitment to susImpacts on employment and local development Committed location tainable development partner Impacts on society, local Committed location communities and regions partner Relations and dialogue Local communities with local communities Partnerships or sponsoring Public welfare commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 85 Non-Financial Disclosures as per Ley 11/2018 Aspects Subtopics and Indicators Chapter Comment Subcontractors and Integration of social, gender and environmenSustainable and suppliers tal criteria in procurement policies climatically responsible procurement Consideration of their social and environmenSustainable and tal responsibility in relations with suppliers and climatically subcontractors responsible procurement Supplier assessments and audits and their Sustainable and results climatically responsible procurement Suppliers Customers Measures for customers’ health and safety – In our materiality analysis, this topic has been identified as being less relevant for the insurance sector. Reclaim systems, complaints received and their Data protection resolution Taxes paid Revenues by country Local revenue before tax at Helvetia Seguros 2019: EUR 14,082,490.25 Taxes paid Income tax 2019: EUR 3,196,495.80 (includes the final payment of IS 2018 and payments on account for 2019) Financial assistance received from government Helvetia does not receive financial assistance from the Spanish government. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 86 Legal notice The Corporate Responsibility Report of the Helvetia Group is available in German and English. Points of contact Helvetia Insurance GRI 102-53 Bettina Rüegge St. Alban-Anlage 26 4002 Basel Email: cr@helvetia.ch Texts Bettina Rüegge, Kristine Schulze, Helvetia Insurance Design and realisation Linkgroup AG, Zurich GRI Reporting Advice BSD Consulting, Zurich Pictures iStock by Getty Images Translation into English Supertext AG, Zurich Copyright © 2020 by Helvetia Group, St.Gallen Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 87 Independent assurance report Ernst & Young Ltd Phone: +41 58 286 31 11 Maagplatz 1 Fax: +41 58 286 30 04 P.O. Box www.ey.com/ch CH-8010 Zurich To the group management of Zurich, 27 April 2020 Helvetia Holding AG, Basel Independent assurance report We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the information marked with a þ in Helvetia Holding AG’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 for the reporting period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. We have not assessed the following KPIs or information disclosed in the report:  Information other than marked with a  KPIs of prior reporting periods  Qualitative statements Responsibility of Helvetia Holding AG’s management The management of Helvetia Holding AG is responsible for the preparation of the disclosed KPIs marked with a in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 in accordance with the applicable criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal controls relevant for the preparation of KPIs that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Applicable criteria Helvetia Holding AG defined as applicable criteria (hereafter “applicable criteria”):  GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016, Core Option We believe that these criteria are a suitable basis for our review. Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Notes 88 2 Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the above mentioned KPIs based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 3000”).This standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the KPIs in the report are free from material misstatement. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the report with regard to the applicable criteria. Summary of work performed Our limited assurance procedures included, amongst others, the following work:  Assessment of the suitability of the underlying criteria and their consistent application  Inquiries of company’s representatives responsible for collecting, consolidating and calculating the KPIs marked with a þ in the report in order to assess the process of preparing the report, the reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance engagement  Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustainability data and testing such documentation on a sample of basis  Analytical procedures, inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis with respect to the compilation and reporting of quantitative data  Critical review of the report regarding plausibility and consistency of the information marked with a þ in the report The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the KPIs marked with a þ in the report have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the KPIs marked with a þ in the report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. Ernst & Young AG Iolanda Dolente Mark Veser (Qualified (Qualified Signature) Signature) Partner Senior Manager This document is a translation of the original German language report, dated 27th April 2020, and is provided for information purposes only. 06.20 12-11541 Helvetia Insurance T +41 (0)58 280 10 00 (24 h), www.helvetia.ch
