DELIBERATE CORPORATE ACTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE IMPACT Manila Doctors Hospital Communication on Progress Report 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As the global community evolves, it has become evident to the private sector that charity will not suffice in advancing socio-economic development that affects those who are at a disadvantaged. The most sensible way for businesses to introduce progress in the quality of life is to support communities in embracing sustainable practices that will have lasting impact. In a developing country like the Philippines, concerns in healthcare, environment, and human rights are essential and must be addressed through a multi-sectoral effort. MDH is engaged in a number of progress centric socio-economic actions with at least one hundred twenty four (124) partners that contributes directly to SDG 3, 5, 13, and 17. By merging responsible governance and business practice with corporate responsibility, we are planting the seed of integrative value, responsible assertion of rights and conscientious self-reliance in the various communities and public schools that we are helping. Perfection is not what we are striving for as a business entity but relevance and long-term impact. We want to show that financial sustainability and social conscience can exist harmoniously and in the process leave a lifelong legacy of service that will transcend generations. We consider 2019 a year of accomplished goals but 2020 is challenging all of that. The pandemic made us realized that we need to reconsider the way we do business in this new normal. The current global community has never tackled a challenge like COVID-19 especially the healthcare industry. Now, more than ever, open collaboration, innovation and smarter processes must take center stage for us to REBUILD BETTER. Manila Doctors Hospital is facing 2020 with fervent determination and draws strength from its 64 years of experience. We are one with the global community in pursuing sustainable measures in growing our business including investing in communities through our corporate social responsibility initiatives. DR. HIAN HO N. KUA MS. ARLENE P. LEDESMA First Vice-President/Hospital Director President 1 2 LEAVING NO ONE BEHIND IN HEALTHCARE HEARD (Healthcare Equality and Accessibility for the Rights of the Deaf) Manila Doctors is the first hospital to undertake a Filipino Sign Language and basic visual gestural communication training for its medical community and frontliners. In promoting inclusivity, MDH partnered with an NGO for the Deaf to train doctors, nurses and other frontliners in independently communicating with the Deaf. MDH is also the first hospital in the country to develop and copyright a Deaf and Senior Citizen friendly prescription pad. These were undertaken to make quality healthcare more accessible for Deaf patients. HEARD was launched even before the Filipino Sign Language Law (Republic Act 11106) was signed in October 30, 2018. 3 Healthcare Equality and Accessibility for the Rights of the Deaf A study conducted by Dr. Charlotte Chiong, former Director of the Philippine National Institute reported that “at least eight profoundly hearing deaf babies are born everyday in the Philippines or one Deaf baby born every three hours. In gathering data the biggest barrier is communication, stigma and shame. It is still common in rural areas of the country to hide their Deaf family member because of the old age belief that it is unlucky or a curse to have a Deaf child. Access to health care without barriers is a clearly defined right of people with disabilities as stated by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. They are supposed to have equal opportunities as mandated by the Philippine Constitution, Magna Carta for Persons with Disabilities or Republic Act 7277 and the Filipino Sign Language Law, Republic Act 11106. However, several studies specifically tackling access to healthcare for deaf people reveals significant challenges in communication with health providers and gaps in health knowledge including the rights and legal benefits that they should be able to access as mandated by law. This further exacerbates the situation of those living in areas with higher risk of marginalization specifically those frequently affected by typhoons and poverty stricken areas. Deaf people are also more vulnerable to abuse. Data from the Philippine Accessible Disability Services (PADS) shows that 60% to 70% of Filipino Deaf Children have been sexually abused. The study was first conducted from July 2012 to present. One reason cited is because predators are confident that they won’t be reported. “If they get abused, they cannot shout. When they report, no one understands them.” Big part of the problem is the language barrier between Deaf people and the rest of the community. Majority of parents don’t even know sign language. Language barriers are a significant healthcare problem for the deaf. Studies show that deaf patients, compared to hearing patients, make less frequent visits to their primary care providers if they can at all and make more trips to the emergency room, which is likely due to the lack of communication access. Add to this that not all deaf are able to access basic education that allows for them to learn either Filipino or American sign-language because most of these centres are only available in very few cities in the country and can be quite expensive so communication must be done using visual gestural communication. HEARD is being undertaken by Manila Doctors Hospital to help ensure that Deaf patients can access health information and services that is non-discriminatory and sensitive to their specific needs. 4 #SaveAChildSaveTheNation Manila Doctors Hospital is the only hospital in the Philippines openly addressing mental health issues brought about by community violence, sexual abuse, and online child sexual exploitation even before the Mental Health Law (RA 11036) was signed in 2018. #SaveAChildSaveTheNation is a mental wellness project for poor children and adolescents who experienced trauma. The project was launched in 2017 and is being implemented through the collaborative efforts of different partner organizations. The immediate goal of the project is to prevent depression, rage, anxiety, and possible suicide by helping the children and adolescents realize their strengths and eventually build individual and family resilience. The long-term goal is to help avert what could be a lasting and crossgenerational impact of experiencing trauma. Those who suffer these atrocities mostly belong to poor families who live in poverty-stricken areas whose average monthly family income is below PhP5,000. They have limited access to mental health services due to (1) high cost of treatment, (2) lack of mental health practitioners, and (3) stigma and discrimination in seeking professional help. #SaveAChildSaveTheNation project responds to this inequality in healthcare by (1) providing free community-based BioPsychosocial intervention to children with trauma and their families/guardians which effectively removes the barrier that hinders the families from prioritizing mental wellness due to their prohibitive economic condition. Using the adopted tree park of MDH as the venue of the intervention sessions also helps in changing the notion of poor families that mental wellness services are only for the rich as the park is open to the public. To address the scarcity of practitioners, (2) wellness facilitators are trained in Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in Emergencies, Child Development and Play, and Wellness Facilitation, and (3) campaigns to raise awareness on the rights of the child and mental wellness through information, education and communication (IEC) materials and social media are used to combat stigma and discrimination. (4) Referrals are offered to beneficiaries with extensive mental health needs and those with legal concerns are linked to partner organizations that provide legal aid. Aside from the psychosocial needs, the project also makes healthcare accessible by referring beneficiaries needing medical consultations to the MDH CSR Clinic where they can access quality healthcare for free. The wellness facilitators also capacitate the beneficiaries to form support groups within their respective communities as they learn how to comfort and help each other as well as other community members who may be in similar situations. Silver Awardee for CSR Excellence by the As of May 2019, Manila Doctors was able to conduct BioPsychosocial International Hospital intervention sessions for 36 families (104 individuals). Federation during the 43rd World Hospital Congress 5 6 LEADERSHIP, EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT & SAFETY INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE WORK ENVIRONMENT The management of the hospital believes that the workplace is a strategic entry point for freeing society from discrimination and gave a directive to its Human Resource Directorate that in screening potential employees, the only consideration should be skills, suitability, and willingness to learn. No distinction, exclusion, or preference will be made on other grounds. The hospital has also adapted its policies, programs, and initiatives to create an environment where all genders, regardless of preference, thrive by putting in place non-discriminatory and anti-harassment policies. Sixty-six percent of the hospital’s regular employees are women and 76.3% of the leadership positions including C-suite levels are held by them. An inclusive and diverse work environment and a culture in which people feel safe, seen, heard, respected, and valued will lead to work and career satisfaction resulting in a higher level of productivity and excellent customer service. LEADERSHIP CULTURE Manila Doctors understands that its most valuable resource is its people and therefore invests in finding and developing their potential. The hospital promotes shared leadership by increasing and strengthening each individual’s capabilities through the provision of training and development opportunities which can help employees improve both their technical and people skills. 7 TALENT MANAGEMENT Talent management programs of Manila Doctors for the senior officers to the nonsupervisory include: CAREER DEVELOPMENT TRACK This in an ongoing project that focuses on the employee’s needs for growth and development and the assistance the organization can provide by ensuring that all employees have the opportunity to progress in his or her career in Manila Doctors. The system allows the Human Resource Directorate and employees to mutually monitor the progress of the career development plan. SUCCESSION PLANNING To ensure that employees develop the necessary skills to readily take on positions in the hospital, a succession planning system was put in place. High-performing employees are identified and trained in preparation for advancement or promotion. TRAINING Having a training program in place ensures that employees are being given the tools to help them achieve their career goals, improve patient experience, and support the organizational goals. All employees are also encouraged to look for training opportunities which the hospital can support by covering the necessary expenses. Each department is expected to identify an annual training budget aside from the general training funds managed by the HR directorate. Senior Officers Team Strengths Strategies for Leading Change Coaching Skills for Development Program Optimal Performance Leaders CONDUCIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT INDEX The Conducive Work Environment Index of the hospital is conducted annually to evaluate performance and identify opportunities for improvement. All units/ departments are required to participate in the survey. Results are analyzed and all division and directorate heads are informed of the outcome and are expected to meet with their unit/department heads so that together they can go over the results and develop an action plan. 8 CLIMATE MITIGATION INITIATIVES Manila Doctors Hospital in line with its commitment to Sustainable Development Goal for Climate Action, has undertaken a number of steps towards a more responsible supply chain and resource management. This journey started in 2007, spearheaded by the Manila Doctors Environment and Waste Management Committee. Its mandates promote greater environmental responsibility internally and in collaboration with the CSR Office externally, bringing its best practices to the hospital’s adopted schools and adopted communities. The hospital does not allow the entry or use of polystyrene foam (Styrofoam) in its premises. This move resulted to the restaurants around the hospitals to use alternative food packaging. Consistent with its campaign, the food packaging and utensils used by the Dietary Department of the hospital are made of cornstarch bio-compostable. In-house functions make use of regular metal utensils. Utensils used by MDH Dietary Department are made of cornstarch bio-compostable. Picnic bench installed in MDH adopted tree park, Arroceros 9 Segregation of waste is encouraged A specific drop box for used Recyclables from different throughout the hospital ball point pens, marker units are collected before pens, and highlighters is being turned over to an also stationed near the authorized Department of Outpatient Services Environment Natural Department Resources recycler MDH ENVICOM, since 2009 has been spearheading the Recyclables Program of the Hospital wherein all departments/units are required to collect and segregate recyclables which are then collected by an authorized recycler of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). To encourage the practice of segregation and recycling, sixty percent of the earnings go to the unit while the 40% is dedicated to fund the Environment programs being undertaken by the Corporate Social Responsibility Office. REDUCING CARBON FOOTPRINT Efforts on resource management efficiency are also put into action. It has long been a hospital-wide effort to reuse papers in sending out memos and other inter-office letter. If there is a need to use a new one, ground wood paper is used. However, intranet messaging is much more preferred in sending out memos, announcements, inter-office letters, campaigns, and important information all throughout the Hospital. MDH also utilizes variable refrigerant flow for its airconditioning units in all of its three (3) buildings, saving up to 46.5% on power bills. It also uses Refrigerant 134A, an environmentally-safe chemical according to European standards. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the procurement practice of the hospital has taken the necessary steps in adopting the 10 UNGC Principles on human rights, fair labor practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption policies. MDH also engages small to medium businesses who provide locallysourced/made products (if applicable), helping drive the local economy. Part of this is utilizing non-toxic materials that have less impact on the environment. In pursuing green initiatives through a responsible supply chain, Manila Doctors is able to reduce its carbon emission by a total of10 10.33 tons. REUTILIZING WATER Initiatives on water conservation are also being undertaken to help preserve this most crucial of all natural resources, and at the same time, reduce costs. The MDH Facilities Management Department (FMD) introduced an innovative way to harvest and recycle water from the Hemodialysis machines by way of the Reverse Osmosis (R.O.) Filter Backwash. Because of that system, what would have been wastewater is now being reused for other purposes. The only hospital in the whole of Metro Manila to utilize this water conservation process, allows Manila Doctors to save 6.27 cubic meter of water per month. The recycled Class B water from the R.O. machine backwashing is then stored in an overhead tank, and used for the lavatories, the internal biodiversity area of the hospital, and cleaning of airconditioning units, and the hospital vicinity. The success and efficiency of this initiative are based on the volume of the water being conserved. FMD installed an overhead tank with a 15,000-liter capacity to be able to utilize the water in all the public comfort rooms of the Hospital. Also, the searing hot water from the Central Reprocessing and Sterilization Services is directed to the main sewer line where it dissolves oil sludge from nearby restaurants, thus helping in the prevention of flood around the hospital. 11 TRANSPARENCY IN REPORTING The hospital, particularly the management and its officers, encourage transparency through its practices and by developing an environment that fosters balanced accountability and continuous improvement. A fair and just culture encourages employees to proactively participate in improving our processes. We have embraced our internal self-check process as part of our corporate life and work with external regulators by welcoming their inputs. Accountability is our tool for gaining trust and maintaining the trust given to us by our patients, and our stakeholders both internal and external. Accountability is not possible without transparency in our decision making and the actions that we take as an organization. Hence, we openly report the challenges that we encounter and the solutions that we undertake. Communication on Progress As an active member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2014, and as one of the founding members of the GCNP Manila Doctors is required to submit an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report of how it is progressing in the integration of the 10 UNGC principles from its governance to its day-to-day operations. The ten principles cover human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The COP is submitted to UNGC Headquarters in New York and is then published in the official website of the UNGC which the public can access. Anybody can read our annual COP report at unglobalcompact.org Balanced Scorecard Manila Doctors Hospital uses Balanced Scorecard (BSC) to ensure that hospital’s efforts are aligned with overall strategy and vision. All units of Manila Doctors Hospital submit their BSC to the Corporate Strategic Planning Office quarterly for reporting. This practice helps determine if a gap exists between actual and targeted performances and to assess organizational effectiveness and operational efficiency. 12 Internal Audit The Quality, Safety, and Risk Management (QSRM) Office Head trained auditors to help ensure that all units of the hospital are compliant to the quality and safety policies and procedures by conducting regular internal audit which is performed at least twice a year or more upon management request, audit criteria, criticality or importance of the process, customer complaints, previous audit results, and to monitor compliance with the documented quality management system. The Internal Quality Lead Auditor holds a closing meeting to present audit findings and conclusions to the Auditee. Audit results for process audits are documented in the Nonconformance/Observation form. If nonconformities are recorded or raised, the auditors prepare the Corrective and Preventive Action Request (CPAR) Form which the auditee should accomplish within 5 working days from the date of receipt. The auditors/Internal Quality Lead Auditor/QSRM Office Head/ QSRMR shall perform verification of issued CPAR/s to check effectiveness of the agreed corrective action. The auditor in charge will verify within 30 days if there is no repetitive nonconformities to be checked and the Management Review Committee shall review the audit results. 13
