Annual Report 2019 Contents 4 Highlights from 2019 22 Customer-focused innovation 54 Board of Directors 6 Protecting assets 26 Corporate governance 55 Management’s statement 10 Letter to stakeholders 32 Risks 56 Independent auditor’s report 14 2019 in review 36 Corporate responsibility 58 Independent limited assurance report 19 Strategy 52 Sustainability data 60 Financial statements Hempel A/S Auditors Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 CVR no. 59946013 PricewaterhouseCoopers DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Financial year: Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Denmark 1 January – 31 December Strandvejen 44 Tel: +45 4593 3800 DK-2900 Hellerup Fax: +45 4588 5518 Denmark hempel.com Highlights Organic growth (%) EBITDA margin (%) 2.5 12.4 2.5 10 from 2019 10.8 10.5 2.5% 5 10.5% 0 vs 2018 -0.7 -1.4 -1.5 0 2017 20181) 2019 2017 20181) 2019 • Hempel is a growth company again. Reported revenue was EUR • EBITDA margin of 10.5 per cent for continuing business 1,534 million representing absolute growth of 14.0 per cent (10.2 per cent in reported numbers) was in line with 2018 despite the diluting effect from acquired businesses and • Organic growth of 2.5 per cent, driven by strong top line unforeseen one-off supply chain costs in China performance in our Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions • Underlying EBITDA margin in fixed currencies was • Organic growth in the second half of the year was 4.8 per cent 11.5 per cent and in line with expectations and reflecting strong organic growth within our important marine and protective segments • Operational excellence activities including acquisition related synergy realisations and efficiency gains in operations driving underlying margin improvement Cash conversion (%) ROIC (%) 100 116 15 17.2 15.1 84 86 13.6 10 50 86% 13.6% 5 0 0 2017 20181) 2019 20171) 20181) 2019 • Cash conversion of 86% and slightly higher than last year. The • ROIC decreased in 2019 which was expected given the acquisition strong Q4 sales impacted working capital negatively, but we still impact from J.W. Ostendorf and one-off supply chain costs in China saw improvements • Average net working capital days improved by five days to 67 days • EUR 170 million in cash released from working capital since 2016 in 2019 • Net debt decreased to EUR 86 million representing a solid • Underlying ROIC was 15.9 per cent when excluding the one-off foundation for future acquisitive growth supply chain costs in China 4 | Key figures In EUR million (unless otherwise stated) In EUR million (unless otherwise stated) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income statement Working capital Revenue 1,534 1,346 1,378 1,424 1,563 Average net working capital (NWC) days 67 72 77 125 126 EBITDA 157 145 1) 171 188 1) 220 Employees Amortisation, depreciation and impairment 65 55 56 58 62 Average number of full-time employees 6,219 5,882 5,740 5,787 5,661 Operating profit 92 901) 115 1301) 158 Number of full-time employees, end of period 6,201 6,259 5,676 5,768 5,758 Share of net profits of associates – – – 2 2 Employee Net Promoter Score Net financials -13 -5 -23 -18 -22 (Scale: -100 to +100) 35 21 20 25 N/A Profit before tax 79 72 92 78 138 Ratios (%) Net profit for the year 50 48 55 47 108 Organic growth 2.5 -1.4 -0.7 -4.5 5.5 Financial position Gross margin 39.0 38.2 40.9 43.7 41.7 Total assets 1,300 1,288 1,144 1,265 1,377 EBITDA margin 10.2 10.81) 12.4 13.21) 14.1 Equity 443 408 442 458 488 Operating profit margin 6.0 6.71) 8.3 9.11) 10.1 Net interest-bearing debt 86 97 21 119 272 Return on invested capital 13.6 1) 15.1 1) 17.2 1) 16.4 1) 18.5 Equity ratio 34.1 31.7 38.6 36.2 35.4 Cash flows Cash conversion 86 1) 84 1) 116 162 1) 83 Total cash flow from operating activities 71 86 155 250 131 Leverage ratio 0.5 0.7 1) 0.1 0.6 1) 1.2 Total cash flow from acquisitions / divestments of enterprises -2 -16 14 – -141 1) Excluding special items.  Total cash flow from net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -33 -34 -23 -36 -47 Free cash flow 51 23 144 216 -56 Key figures | 5 Protecting assets. 6,300+ Employees Improving businesses. 80+ Countries We’re guardians of 15 Research our customers’ most development centres valuable assets. Our coatings have never been more in demand them optimise their processes, improve their than they are today. The world’s infrastructure is environmental performance, reduce mainterapidly expanding, more homes are being built nance requirements, and cut energy use, fuel and global industry needs efficient and sustainaconsumption, waste and costs. ble processes and transportation. Coatings are essential for all of this. They bring colour to our world and extend the service lives of our buildings and infrastructure. Our solutions help our customers perform better and their assets last for longer. This demands that we deliver the market’s most trusted 28 Factories solutions. It is up to us to earn this trust every We do much more than just protect and beautify. day through the superior performance of our We partner with customers to develop new and products and technical service. We have been sustainable solutions to their biggest challenges. earning this trust for more than 100 years. Through our products and services, we help 6 | Where we add value to customers Wind Marine Protecting our future Improving fleet efficiency and We partner with customers to bring down environmental performance the total cost of wind energy per kilowatt hour From newbuilding to onboard maintenance, by extending wind turbine lifetime, reducing our solutions help vessel owners and operators maintenance requirements and improving reduce maintenance costs, extend maintenance application efficiency. intervals and cut fuel consumption and emissions. Decorative Protective Yacht Services Making the world more beautiful In the harshest industrial environments Under wind and sail A performance partnership From homes and offices to hospitals, schools Across industries, we protect structures, Our products help boat builders and sailing We offer advice, training, project oversight and public buildings, our solutions improve infrastructure and heavy-duty equipment enthusiasts keep their vessels in perfect and surface management to help customers hygiene, lower maintenance requirements and from corrosion and help customers increase condition and sailing smoothly, so they have improve efficiency and quality during application, make our world more colourful, longer lasting efficiency, reduce costs and improve more time to enjoy the sea. reduce long-term maintenance costs and and sustainable. environmental performance. extend asset lifetimes. Hempel at a glance | 7 The Hempel Foundation EUR 21 million The amount given by the Hempel Foundation to Our unique ownership philanthropic causes in 2019 structure ensures we take a long-term perspective on growth, sustainability and corporate responsibility. Hempel is proudly owned by the Hempel the globe. He transferred all his company Foundation, a commercial foundation dedicated shares to the Foundation and it remains the to making a positive difference around the globe. sole shareholder of the Hempel Group today. The Foundation is the sole owner of the Hempel All dividends from our work are ultimately Group – an ownership structure that is unique in paid to the Hempel Foundation. the coatings industry, and in most industries around the world. No person or entity owns any part of the Hempel Foundation and no individual shareA long-term perspective holder receives any dividends or profit from it. Our founder J.C. Hempel believed that a This ensures we take a long-term view on value company has a responsibility to its employees creation, sustainability and return on investand society in general. Long before it was ment, and gives us a sustainable perspective customary, he introduced employee benefits when pursuing growth. such as free milk at work, holiday homes for employees and subsidised training. This strong, In its philanthropic work, the Foundation focuses supportive culture still exists within the Hempel its efforts on three main areas: empowering Group today. children living in poverty to learn; promoting independent research within sustainable coatings In 1948, J.C. Hempel established the Hempel science and technology; and sustaining nature’s Foundation to provide a solid financial base for biodiversity. The Foundation’s contribution in the continued existence of the Hempel Group these areas is something every Hempel employee and to give assistance to good causes around can be proud of. Hempel at a glance | 9 2019 was a good year for Hempel, in which we returned to positive organic growth and continued the profound transformation of our global company. Letter to stakeholders At Hempel, we have spent the last four years industry in a number of areas and have laid a carried out across all countries and functions. to congratulate every one of our colleagues in getting our house in order, continuing the solid foundation for growth in others. We have The 2019 results, show an impressive increase the region for achieving these results. In 2019, modernisation of our company that we began built a strong culture, improved compliance and in overall satisfaction and motivation. Since we we also merged our two sub-regions in the Middle with the launch of our Journey to Excellence productivity, and embedded innovation and launched the survey three years ago, we have East and worked with our local partners to strategy in particular from March 2016. We customer-focus throughout the company to seen a steady increase in satisfaction and modernise the ownership structure of our joint have now built the necessary internal structures, ensure we continue to develop value-adding and motivation across the Group. To maintain these ventures. We now have one integrated manageprocedures and, most importantly, team and increasingly sustainable solutions for customers good results, we will continue our focus on ment team in the Middle East, operating from our culture, to propel our company forward into the around the globe. In 2019, for example, we leadership, employee involvement and regional headquarters in Bahrain, and we are well 2020’s. This work has been challenging at launched Hempaguard MaX, a new hull coating communication, both internally and externally, positioned to grow and operate successfully in times, but it has also been an opportunity to solution that builds on the success of our in the years to come. the region in the future. push ourselves to improve, and the results market-leading Hempaguard X7. Hempaguard are indeed very satisfying. MaX improves the hydrodynamics of ocean-going In 2019, nearly 2,000 customers responded to Unique ownership structure vessels to significantly reduce fuel consumption our Customer Experience Survey and hereby As leaders of a global company, it is our job to Performance in 2019 and associated emissions – and can play a key provided us valuable feedback on our work and take care of Hempel for the next generation to We saw a return to organic growth in 2019, role in helping customers improve profitability relationship with them. The results represent come – to build on the successes of the past for driven by strong organic growth in the second and environmental performance. significant progress, and are now at an all-time future generations. Hempel’s ownership structure half of the year of 4.8 per cent, as well as high. Furthermore, it showed that across is integral to making this possible. Our company underlying progress in earnings and margins in A culture of care and improvement Hempel, the most important driver of customer is entirely owned by the Hempel Foundation, a most of our regions and segments. 2019 was We are proud to say that we have a unique loyalty is focus on understanding our customers’ foundation dedicated to investing in long-term our first full year with J.W. Ostendorf and in culture at Hempel, one in which we dare each needs and being a trustworthy organisation. value creation and making a positive difference absolute terms we grew by 14.0 per cent. The other to go further and give each other the around the world. This forms a strong part of our EBITDA margin development was stable despite support we need to excel. This ensures we have In 2019, the strength of our culture was seen heritage, culture and identity. For our employees, supply chain challenges in China and integration the framework and motivation we need to grow in the turnaround in Asia-Pacific. After years of it gives a strong sense of pride and a purpose to of J. W. Ostendorf. Group EBITDA ended the year and develop, both as a team and individually. It challenges, we gave the new leadership team our work. Through the Hempel Foundation, some at EUR 157 million, with a corresponding EBITDA is encapsulated in our HempelatHeart values responsibility for turning the region around with of the profits we earn are used to support good margin of 10.2 per cent. and is an essential part of our success. the full support of the rest of the organisation. causes around the globe. For example, since It was therefore pleasing to see strong organic 2011, the Foundation has initiated projects Our goal of doubling Hempel’s revenue, and We are very pleased that 90 per cent of our growth of 21.9 per cent in Asia-Pacific in the supporting quality education for 180,000 children. leading the markets in which we choose to people worldwide responded to our annual second half of the year, married to strong This is something of which every Hempel emcompete, remains in place. We already lead the Employee Engagement Survey, which was again progress in employee satisfaction. We would like ployee can be proud. Letter to stakeholders | 11 Our ownership structure is important for another pated and we finalised the post-merger integraopening a new factory in Saudi Arabia in in 2019. As a result, we continued to deliver reason: It gives us the ability to focus on the very tion after just one year – which is a tremendous early 2020 and continue the work on two new positive cash flow in 2019, and further brought long term. Thanks to the financial stability the achievement. Not only have we integrated our factories in North Asia. In 2019, our manufacdown net debt by EUR 11 million. In addition, Foundation provides, we can invest long-term core processes, ensuring J.W. Ostendorf and turing in Asia was challenged by circumstances we refinanced our credit into a EUR 1 billion in customer solutions, innovation, sustainability Renaulac are integrated on the back end, but we beyond our control, but we were pleased to be credit facility. Combined with our net working and employee development. There were many have quickly realised the benefits of the cultural able to deal with the issue with no discernible capital improvements, which have freed up examples of progress in these areas in 2019. fit and synergies between the companies. loss of service to customers. In April, the more than EUR 170 million in cash since authorities in Kunshan province in China 2016, this puts us in a strong position to We continued to invest in market-driven We can now see that the underlying business temporarily closed over 1,000 factories in the pursue our growth strategy and acquire new innovation, launching a number of top-of-theperformance of the two companies was not region, our factory among them. Our factory family members with the right cultural and line products that will help our customers further as strong as anticipated. The business case reopened in November. Despite the major business fit in the next few years. improve their businesses and environmental remains strong; however, it will take us longer disruption, we still sold more coatings in the performance. We reduced our own waste, to realise than expected. Therefore, our focus region than in 2018. Much credit for this Looking ahead to 2020, we expect to see energy consumption and use of hazardous raw now is to lift margins and further develop our should go to our supply chain team. In particuorganic growth in line with or slightly above materials, with the long-term goal of leading Decorative organisation to ensure we gain the lar, we would like to thank our employees in the market. From an earnings perspective, we sustainability and transparency in the coatings full benefit of the experience and skills that our Kunshan, many of whom have travelled long expect to see continuous margin improvements industry. And, we continued our investments new colleagues have brought to the company. distances to help out with extra shifts at our in the underlying business. Reported EBITDA in future talent by introducing new development other factories in China. margin, however, is expected to drop slightly due programmes that mean we can now help Our work with J.W. Ostendorf and Renaulac to investments in our future supply chain in employees grow from new graduates into has shown that we have the ability to quickly Looking to the horizon China. In absolute terms, we expect our EBITDA seasoned leaders. You can read about all of and successfully integrate companies into the 2019 was the penultimate year in our Journey to to remain stable at around EUR 150-160 these developments and more in this report. Hempel family. This has given us a blueprint for Excellence strategy and we have already come a million. We will update our strategy, designed to future integrations, and we will continue to grow long way since launching the strategy four years build on our past successes and take us forward Building a strong decorative presence in Europe by welcoming new family members and new ago. We have finished 25 strategic initiatives, to a bright sustainable future, in which we lead Part of our strategy requires the successful businesses to our Group, with our perspective and we have 18 more underway – all designed the industry in the areas that we choose to development of our decorative business. We of long-term mutual value creation. to modernise Hempel and build a solid foundacompete in. Our goal remains to double Hempel took great strides in this in 2018 when we tion for future growth. and we remain on track. Right now, our focus acquired J.W. Ostendorf in Germany, including Expanding our manufacturing footprint is on getting things done, and finishing the Renaulac in France. Following the acquisition, As part of our drive to sustain growth, we are We reduced average net working capital days transformation of our company that we began we have realised more synergies than anticiinvesting in our manufacturing footprint. We are from 72 in 2018 to an all-time low of 67 days four years ago. 12 | A final word of thanks Overall, 2019 was a positive year for Hempel. This was only possible with the commitment of our highly skilled and dedicated colleagues across the globe and we would like to thank them for their hard work. We would also like to thank Henrik Andersen, our Chief Executive Officer from March 2016 to July 2019, for his dedicated work at Hempel. We wish him all the best for the future. Finally, we would like to extend our gratitude to you – our customers, shareholder and other stakeholders – for your ongoing support. Lars Petersson Group President & Chief Executive Officer of Hempel A/S Lars Petersson (right) was welcomed in his Richard Sand new role of Group President and Chief Executive Chair of the Officer of Hempel in July by Richard Sand (left), Board of Directors of Hempel A/S Chair of the Board of Directors of Hempel. Letter to stakeholders | 13 2019 in review Strong growth and a successful integration made 2019 a positive year for Hempel. Hempel saw a strong performance in 2019, more than 1,000 factories in Kunshan, including c­ ontributing positively. Despite its strong “ The strong result especially in the second half of the year. We are our factory in the region, which remained closed performance, the EMEA region was affected growing again after spending significant time and until 15 November. by the geopolitical and economic situation in in 2019 shows that effort building a foundation for future success. the Middle East as well as the uncertainty around we are harvesting Organic growth was 2.5 per cent in 2019. We experienced material one-off costs in 2019. Brexit as already mentioned. In addition, our Compared to last year, we grew 14 per cent in We reacted quickly to the Kunshan factory Decorative segment was challenged, as the the benefits of the absolute terms; based on the 2.5 per cent organic shutdown in China to ensure timely deliveries underlying business in the newly acquired J.W. excellence projects growth and because 2019 was the first full year of high-quality coatings to our customers Ostendorf was as not good as expected, though with J.W. Ostendorf as an integrated part of the – however, this came at an additional cost. significant synergies have already been released. in our Journey to Hempel family. We secured a satisfactory EBITDA In 2019, we also decided to consolidate our two Excellence strategy” margin of 10.2 per cent, and a positive free cash organisations in the Middle East into one, to Organic growth in our Asia-Pacific region flow of EUR 51 million. create the best possible foundation for further amounted to 9.1 per cent for 2019, whereof we growth in the region. This integration, along with saw a strong 21.9 per cent in the second half Our long-term aspiration is to double Hempel. the costs of integrating J.W. Ostendorf with our of the year. This marks the completion of our Although we did not engage in any new acquisiEMEA region, resulted in extraordinary one-off turnaround in the region. This growth is a result tions in 2019, we are ready when we find the costs in 2019. Despite these challenges, we of a successful go-to-­market strategy within the right fit. We have both the financial capabilities delivered a solid performance with an EBITDA Wind sub-segment, where we have closed many to acquire, in the form of a credit facility of EUR 157 million. large orders with key global and regional wind agreement with our core banks of EUR 1 billion, tower manufacturers. Traditional industries, such and we have a competent and streamlined Revenue as oil & gas and infrastructure, also delivered organisation, ready to reap potential synergies Hempel’s revenue in 2019 amounted to EUR strong growth in 2019, while our container from inviting new members into the Hempel 1,534 million, or EUR 1,511 in fixed currenbusiness lost ground to competitive products Group – as demonstrated by the successful cies. The increase in revenue corresponds to as we believe the current price levels are integration of J.W. Ostendorf, and the correorganic growth of 2.5 per cent, which almost unsustainable. sponding financial and cultural synergies that exclusively was generated in the second half we are now benefitting from. of the year. Our Americas region experienced strong growth in some markets, while we witnessed challenges The strong result in 2019 also shows that we The initiatives in our Journey to Excellence in others. Overall, the region declined 2.0 per are now harvesting the benefits of the excellence strategy have enabled us to grow our business cent in 2019. Despite the uncertainty caused by projects in our Journey to Excellence strategy, while also creating significant value for our the potential state bankruptcy of Argentina, begun four years ago. The strategy has given us customers. Within this, innovation is a cornerrevenues in South America were solid and we a solid platform from which we are now growing stone of our business as it creates the platform almost doubled sales in the large Brazilian – and we will continue to grow into the future. for our future revenue streams. market. In North America, our Rail sub-segment delivered solid performance with double-digit We do see challenging conditions in multiple In 2019, we experienced positive organic growth organic growth, we consolidated our leading markets, many of which had an impact on our in two out of three regions. EMEA led absolute position in the wind tower industry and grew our 2019 result. The ongoing uncertainty around growth among our regions, growing 19.2 per Marine segment by almost 15 per cent in 2019. Brexit impact has affected our Decorative cent overall. Organic growth ended at 1.7 per Less positively, growth was negatively impacted business in UK and Ireland; geopolitical uncercent, which was driven by our Marine segment, by a declining oil & gas market as well as a tainty and the economic slowdown in the Middle where we witnessed a strong performance in dry decline of our Neogard product range in 2019, East affected our Europe, Middle East and Africa docking due to a number of factors, including both of which had a negative impact on our (EMEA) region; while the potential state bankour flagship product, Hempaguard X7. The margins in the Americas. ruptcy of Argentina and the trade war between remaining growth was driven by the acquisitive the US and China increased uncertainty in our growth in our d­ ecorative business. Our Protective We experienced higher revenue in our three core Americas and Asia-Pacific regions. In addition, segment also contributed to top-line growth, segments – Marine, Protective and Decorative in April the Chinese authorities temporarily closed with our new passive fire protection products – than last year. In the Marine segment, a slow 2019 in review | 15 “ We experienced start to 2019 was followed by solid performance development of the underlying business, A proportion of the realised savings were in the latter half of the year, and the segment especially when taking the volatile market reinvested in innovation projects throughout the higher revenue in ended with organic growth of 10.6 per cent, into consideration. organisation, particularly within Research & our three segments mainly thanks to our performance within dry Development, Digital and our Global Sales docking, where the launch of our cutting-edge The improvement in earnings from our underlying organisation. Further­more, we invested in talent – Marine, Protective Hempa­guard MaX hull coating solution had a business was mainly driven by two factors. Firstly, development and succession – for example, by and Decorative significant impact. Our Protective segment also we benefitted from efficiency gains in operations, recruiting more than 22 talents as part of our experienced steady growth, with revenue ending where the value of cost saving activities in 2019 graduate programme across all our regions in – than last year” 5.2 per cent higher than last year. This upward was more than EUR 40 million. Secondly, the cost order to strengthen our talent pipeline. trend was partly thanks to strong results within our of raw materials declined on a like-for-like basis Wind Energy and Infrastructure sub-segments and by 6.3 per cent compared to December 2018. The first half of 2019 marked the end of the good performance in our Rail sub-segment, where cases with the Danish Serious Fraud Office and we remain a market leader in North America. Operating expenses the Prosecution Authority in Kiel, Germany. As a Compared to 2018, operating expenses result of the case, Hempel was fined EUR 29 EBITDA increased in 2019. Reported operating exmillion, which was paid in 2019. The fine was Group EBITDA for 2019 ended at EUR 157 penses were EUR 1,442 million and EUR 1,421 anticipated and fully provisioned for in 2018. million, and the corresponding EBITDA margin at million in fixed currencies, representing an Therefore, it had no impact on the net profit 10.2 per cent. Excluding the effect from increase of 13.1 per cent. result in 2019. discontinuing decorative business in Portugal and China and exchange rates, EBITDA margin Operating expenses in fixed currencies for Financial income and expenses for 2019 ended at 10.5 per cent or EUR 157 continuing business were EUR 1,408 million, The net expense for the year was EUR 13 million million, versus 10.8 per cent and EUR 145 representing an increase of 14.7 per cent compared to EUR 5 million in 2018. The million in 2018 (measured in fixed currencies). compared to 2018. This increase was mainly increase was mainly due to significant foreign driven by two factors. Firstly, J.W. Ostendorf exchange gains in 2018 (positive at EUR 6 This is a satisfactory result, as we have became part of Hempel on 1 October 2018. million) which in 2019 were slightly negative at incurred significant one-off costs during 2019 Therefore, 2019 included the first full year with EUR 1 million. Interest expenses increased associated with the Kunshan shutdown, with J.W. Ostendorf as part of the Hempel Group. slightly from EUR 12 million in 2018 to EUR 13 the integration of J.W. Ostendorf and with the Secondly, the shutdown of our Kunshan factory in million in 2019. merger of our Middle East regions. Adjusting for China caused operating expenses to increase these one-off costs, EBITDA for continuing due to extraordinary costs associated with Tax and net profit business ended at 172 million in fixed currenensuring timely delivery to our customers. One-off Tax on profit for the year amounted to EUR 29 cies, equivalent to an EBITDA margin of 11.5 costs e.g. associated with the re-­organisation in million compared to EUR 24 million in 2018. The per cent, close to last year’s organic EBITDA our Middle East region also had an effect. When effective tax rate was 36.7 per cent compared to margin of 11.8 per cent. The acquisition of J.W. excluding these costs, operating expenses 33.3 per cent in 2018 (28.2 per cent excluding Ostendorf had a diluting effect on Hempel’s increased by 13.5 per cent. The normal operating special items). In 2019 the tax rate was affected EBITDA margin in 2019. This was expected costs associated with J.W. Ostendorf account for by unrecognised deferred tax assets, mainly given the nature of the acquired business, 86 per cent of that increase. related to the temporary factory closure in China. which has a substantial element of low-margin Net profit for the year ended at EUR 50 million private label paint sales. On a like-for-like basis On a like-for-like basis, therefore, operating costs compared to EUR 48 million in 2018. excluding the acquired J.W. Ostendorf for continuing businesses, as a percentage of business, integration costs and the impact from revenue, decreased from 93.1 per cent in 2018 Capital expenditure the Kunshan shutdown the underlying EBITDA to 92.7 per cent in 2019 when adjusting for the In 2019, we increased investments in modernisin 2019 ended at EUR 172 million and an items mentioned above. This trend was driven by ing and upgrading our global production facilities EBITDA margin at 13.0 per cent. This is higher productivity savings originating from continuous and advancing our digital agenda. Investments than the comparable EBITDA margin in 2018 of improvements and operational excellence in digital solutions amounted to EUR 7 million in 11.8 per cent and reflects a solid organic activities 2019. The global upgrade and roll-out of our 16 | Executive Management Board: Peter Kirkegaard (CPCO), Lars Jønstrup Dollerup (CFO), Lars Petersson (CEO), Michael Hansen (CCO) Microsoft Dynamics 365 Enterprise Resource EUR 86 million, a decrease of EUR 11 million Planning system, was the single biggest digital since December 2018. The net debt level is still investment. low and, with our new credit facility agreement in place, we are in good shape for further acquisitive Optimisation of our production facilities included growth, and ready to reinforce our leading role in investments of more than EUR 40 million. EUR 9 the consolidation of the global coatings industry. million were invested in supply chain efficiency projects in our newly established European 2020 and beyond Decorative region, which includes the acquired Our long-term, ambitious and realistic aspiration J.W. Ostendorf businesses. Furthermore, we is to double Hempel. We see 2020 as a great almost completed the building of a new factory opportunity to continue this journey. Despite in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia and we made significant increasingly volatile market conditions, as well health, safety & environment investments in our as a potential slowdown in the world economy, Chinese factories. we still expect to grow organically in 2020, in line with or better than the market. We also aim Cash flow and net interest-bearing debt to welcome new family members to the Hempel Operating profit ended at EUR 92 million, an Group, which will further support our growth increase of EUR 2 million compared to last ambitions. Furthermore, we will dedicate year. Together with a slight decrease in working significant investments in 2020 to strengthen capital, this drove cash flow from operating our Chinese supply chain. With that, we will activities to EUR 71 million, compared to EUR establish a solid platform for further profitable 86 million in 2018. The main reason for the growth in our Asia-Pacific region. The underlying decrease in cash flow from operating activities performance of our business is expected to is the payment of the fine to the Danish Serious further improve in 2020, although earnings will Fraud Office and the Prosecution Authority in be impacted short term by the supply chain Kiel, Germany of EUR 29 million. Excluding investments. We therefore expect reported special items cash conversion ended at 86 per earnings margin to be slightly lower in 2020 cent compared to 84 per cent in 2018. compared to 2019. In 2020, we will introduce an updated strategy, aiming at taking Hempel Net working capital continues to be a key focus beyond and above the positive position that our area. In 2015, net working capital days amounted current Journey to Excellence strategy has to 122 days. This had decreased to 69 days by created. With our unique ownership structure, the end of 2019, equal to a yearly average of 67 Hempel is well positioned to continue investing days in 2019 versus 72 days in 2018. in the company to ensure we consolidate our position as a leader in innovation and sustainaCash flow from investing activities was a net bility, with a long-term perspective on value outflow of EUR 20 million compared to 63 creation and return on investments. million in 2018. 2019 was impacted by the repayment of a large deposit of EUR 15 million and further a reduction in cash outflow from acquisitions from EUR 19 million in 2018 to EUR 2 million in 2019. The positive generation of cash throughout the year helped reduce net interest-bearing debt. By end of 2019, net interest-bearing debt equalled 18 | Strategy In 2019, we continued to implement the initiatives that will be the foundation of the Hempel Group’s long-term success. We sharpened our value propositions to customers with improved technology and best-in-class service solutions; we improved our global processes to ensure we can deliver efficient and reliable By executing on the initiatives in our services wherever our customers need them; and, we took significant steps in leadership and House of Priorities, we are preparing talent development, and now have development to take the next step in our strategic programmes for all managerial levels. journey to strengthen our position as We also successfully integrated J.W. Ostendorf a market-leading player in marine, into the Hempel family. At the end of 2018, three Hempel Group employees relocated to Coesfeld, protective and decorative coatings Germany to support the integration process, solutions and services. particularly the cultural integration of J.W. Ostendorf. We are pleased to see that, although the underlying business has been challenged due to lower activity levels than expected, we have been able to fully harvest the synergies that were identified prior to the transaction. We are confident that the partnership with J.W. Ostendorf will contribute positively to the Hempel Group’s future ambitions. House of Priorities We introduced the House of Priorities in 2018 to provide an overview of our key initiatives. The House of Priorities ensures that we align our efforts across the Group within each of our four strategic journeys: The Customer Journey, Excellence Journey, Innovation & Product Journey and Culture & Leadership Journey. In 2019, we successfully executed on several of the key initiatives in the House of Priorities. During 2020, we will continue to focus on successfully implementing these critical priorities. Key strategy execution initiatives in 2019 • Customer Journey – Products and services: In our Marine Segment, we introduced Hempaguard MaX, a new hull coating system that further increases fuel savings for customers compared to similar products, and we are also now monitoring around 400 Strategy | 19 The repainted silos at J.W. Ostendorf are a sign of the company’s integration into the Hempel Group. vessels through our SHAPE programme. In the and will ensure we focus on customer needs Protective segment, we launched a new consistently across the Hempel Group. passive fire protection solution that significantly reduces application time compared to • Culture & Leadership Journey – Leadership other market-leading products. development: With the introduction of the Hempel leadership model and the accompany• Customer Journey – Services: We increased ing online learning journeys, we can now help our conversion of services into revenue by all our leaders develop – at all levels and better monetising the value of our services to locations. This complements our more targeted our customers. Furthermore, we piloted new talent development programmes: Pioneer integrated service concepts for the global (graduate level), Explorer (mid-level leaders) shipping industry and developed digital and Challenger (senior leaders). We have a systems that increase our field service clear ambition to fill two-thirds of our leaderemployees’ access to information to improve ship positions with internal candidates. quality and efficiency. Looking ahead • Customer Journey – Global Key Account As defined in our House of Priorities, we will Management: We grew our Global Key Accounts continue to drive customer-centric solutions and in Marine and Protective by 22.7% in 2019, with internal excellence in 2020. Key initiatives include: our customer portfolios within Marine and the roll-out of customer classification, which will Protective growing more than 20% respectively. enable us to better align our value propositions This is a testament to the strong customer focus with customer needs; the implementation of an that is being built throughout the Hempel industry-leading specification and quotation organisation. system; and the roll-out of a dynamic and simplified planning process that will improve our • Excellence Journey – Waste & energy: We ability to invest in areas with the highest potential. continued to drive initiatives in our supply chain organisation to reduce our electricity use and We are continuously scanning the market for In 2019, we merged our organisation landfill waste. In 2019, we reduced our relative potential acquisition targets, including busiin the Middle East into one. energy consumption by 6.5%, including an 11% nesses that could strengthen or broaden our decrease in electricity use. We achieved an 18% services value proposition. We have a strong Group organisational structure reduction in waste to landfill. We also initiated pipeline of candidates and expect to continue partnerships with our customers to reduce their to play a leading role in the consolidation of the Hempel waste through circular economy. industry in 2020. Decorative North South Europe North South & Middle • Innovation & Product Journey – Assortment 2020 marks the end of our Journey to Excellence Europe America America & Africa Asia East Asia East excellence: We have significantly cut complexstrategy period. While we will continue to execute Commercial ity across all our segments by reducing the on this strategy in 2020, we will also define our Dimension 2 number of unique items we produce by more strategy for the coming period, which will focus than 70% and the number of items sold by heavily on our customers, combining commercial Operations 50% since 2016. This has been achieved success with sustainability and reaching our while growing our sales. target of doubling Hempel within the foreseeable Finance future. Our work with Journey to Excellence has • Culture & Leadership Journey – Sales compebuilt the foundation for Hempel’s future success People tency building: In 2019, 789 of our sales and, by the end of 2020, we will be ready to take & Culture employees participated in training, which has the next steps in building our company into a Dimension 1 lifted our sales force’s capabilities significantly market-leading coating solutions provider. 20 | The Hempel business Produce & supply • Ensure fast and reliable supply & delivery to customers Advise & support • Keep customer assets in agreed condition model across the globe • Help customers • Constantly strive for greater optimise processes excellence & efficiency • Ensure efficiency & • Work to improve lead times quality during application & environmental performance Customers Communicate & sell Innovate & create • Understand customers’ • Listen to customer needs business needs • Partner with customers to • Communicate benefits create solutions of solutions • Partner with others to • Ensure best possible explore new solutions solution for each project & technologies Develop & improve • Work with customers to test solutions in the field • Adjust existing solutions to improve performance • Tailor solutions to local conditions Strategy | 21 Customerfocused innovation In 2019, we collaborated with leading home magazine Elle Decoration to create a new wall paint concept, Elle Decoration by Crown, a unique mix of French chic with British heritage. “ International shipping will only succeed Customer Experience Survey in reducing its greenhouse gas emissions Our Customer Experience Survey is a key by at least 50% by 2050 if commercially tool in helping us understand how we can viable zero emission vessels start entering best serve our customers. In 2019, the survey was conducted from August to the global fleet by 2030. We are excited September and nearly 2,000 customers to work together with Hempel to achieve took part, up from just under 1,400 in this joint ambition to drive green 2018. The results showed that across Hempel, the most important requirements development across the world.” for creating customer loyalty are in-depth Getting to Zero focus on individual customer needs and Johannah Christensen, Managing Director, In 2019, we joined the Getting to Zero Head of Projects & Programmes at the Global Maritime Forum, trustworthiness as an organisation. Coalition, a multi-stakeholder group that Hempel’s overall Net Promoter Score a partner of the Getting to Zero Coalition. aims to see the introduction of commercially (NPS) increased from 52 in 2018 to 56, viable zero emission vessels (ZEVs) by indicating that our customers in general 2030. ZEVs are seen as essential if the are very satisfied with Hempel as a coating shipping industry is to significantly reduce supplier. It is also encouraging to note that or eliminate carbon emissions, and we 60 per cent of customers who rated us believe we can play an important role in poorly in our NPS question last year their development. expressed their increased satisfaction with our products and services this year. This shows that we can make significant improvements by working proactively with customers while also acting on general feedback from the survey. From bridges and boats to wind turbines and improve their operations and business perforhospitals, our coatings can be found around the mance by, for example, reducing fuel consumpglobe, protecting our customers’ assets and tion or energy use, increasing application equipment from corrosion. They bring colour to efficiency and colour choice, or improving our world and extend the service lives of our sustainability performance. buildings and infrastructure. Delivering these benefits demands that we truly The main purpose of a coating is to protect the understand our customers’ businesses and work material beneath, while also improving the in partnership with them to develop new and material’s aesthetics or functionality. Our innovative solutions that solve their challenges. customers, therefore, are looking for robust This requires close collaboration with our coatings that increase asset longevity, reduce customers and colleagues across our entire maintenance costs and present their building, global organisation, from our customer-facing brand or asset in the best possible way. sales and service teams to our R&D staff and Customers also realise that coatings can digital teams. Customer-focused innovation | 23 Customer focus Global consistency and service professional applicators and home-users by Lower fuel costs and C02 emissions offshore assets such as wind turbines and oil Like Hempel, many of our customers are improving ease of application and drying times. Carbon emissions are a focus in many industries, & gas platforms, the cost of performing mainteglobal, with operations in different parts of the including the shipping industry where a combinanance at sea makes this need particularly strong. world. These customers require consistently highImproving health and safety tion of new regulations and industry desire make it We worked with one of the world’s leading oil & quality products that meet both local and Coatings contain chemicals and other suba key consideration. In shipping, carbon emissions gas companies to find a solution and, in 2019, inter­national standards, as well as fast stances that can potentially be harmful to are directly related to fuel consumption and, as launched the water-repellent topcoat Hempatop service, delivery and response wherever they people or the environment. We are constantly fuel is the number one expense for most ocean-­ Repel 800. Our analysis shows that water operate. Our Global Key Account Management working to reduce the amount of potentially going vessels, any reduction in fuel use can have entering through the coating system is the concept meets this demand. Our Global Key harmful substances in our products to help a significant dual benefit for vessel operators. primary cause of coating failure for offshore Accounts saw growth well above market customers improve both health and safety assets. By actively repelling water from the coated average in 2019, proving that our largest during application and overall environmental We offer marine customers a comprehensive set surface, Hempatop Repel 800 can significantly global customers are entrusting increasing performance. In 2019, for example, we added of solutions to reduce fuel consumption and reduce maintenance requirements compared to parts of their business to us. a number of biocide-free wall and ceiling paints associated emissions. These include a range of currently available coating systems. to our Decorative range. These reduce the risk advanced hull coatings that improve vessel Greater operational savings of exposure to potentially harmful substances hydrodynamics; technical services that maximGreater personalisation Reducing operational costs is high on the during application, which is particularly ise coating performance; and SHAPE, a propulColour is one of the most important consideraagenda for most of our customers and in 2019 important in the Decorative industry, where sion monitoring and analysis service that tions in decorative coatings. In homes, colour is we expanded our services offering to increase many products are applied by non-professional enables operators to document performance used to create a certain look, atmosphere and focus in this key area. This included launching a applicators. and make continuous improvements. individual style. In hospitals, schools and other tailored service for Protective customers with institutions, specially designed colour schemes factory applied line production, with the overall We also launched Hempafire Optima 500, a new Our solutions have long been central to improved create a feeling of wellbeing, calmness or goal of reducing their total cost of production. waterborne coating in our Hempafire range of environmental performance and lower operational improved concentration. In 2019, we collaboThe Production Line Survey service includes a passive fire protection (PFP) coatings. PFP costs for many shipping companies. Our indusrated with leading home magazine Elle full review of the customer’s coating application coatings improve building safety by extending the try-leading Hempaguard X7, for example, was Decoration to create a new wall paint concept procedures, documentation, specifications, load-bearing capacity of structural steel during a applied to over 1,500 vessels between its launch that combines French chic with British elequality control and process flow – and we fire to give extra time for evacuation and emerin 2013 and October 2019. In that time, it helped gance. Called Elle Decoration by Crown, the provide recommendations to help them reduce gency response – and they are increasingly the collective vessel owners save USD 500 million range includes 60 contemporary colour costs, improve efficiency and increase producdemanded by local authorities and building in fuel bills and reduced CO2 emissions by 10 shades, which dry to a tough and durable flat tion speed. We also completed a number of pilot owners. Hempafire Optima 500 provides up to million tons. In 2019, we introduced Hempaguard matt finish. Elle Decoration by Crown will be projects with customers in the Marine segment 120 minutes of fire protection and, as a low MaX, a three-coat system that offers even greater introduced in 2020, giving customers a wider to test new service offerings designed to reduce volatile organic compound (VOC) coating, it helps fuel savings and emission reductions, as well as selection of colours to choose from when operational costs. our customer meet environmental targets. Like the reduced application time in dry dock. decorating interiors. other products in our Hempafire range, Hempafire As well as services, we introduced new coatings in Optima 500 is optimised for application efficiency Reducing long-term 2019 to help customers reduce application costs and so contributes to improved productivity and maintenance requirements and increase productivity. This included a number reduced project costs for customers compared to Most customers want to reduce long-term of products in our decorative range that help both similar PFP coatings on the market. maintenance requirements. For owners of 24 | Helping our customers support Reducing fuel costs and the UN Sustainable emissions for China Navigation Development Goals Global shipping company China Navigation has a strong focus on environmental performance, and it uses our advanced hull coatings to reduce CO2 emissions and operating costs. The challenge Headquartered in Singapore, China Navigation operates a fleet of more than 150 multi-purpose, container and bulk vessels, and carries Mr. Seong Gon Gim (Chairman, CS Wind) cargo for hundreds of customers across the globe. The company has and Lars Petersson (CEO, Hempel) a sharp eye on environmental performance, and it was looking for a solution that would help reduce CO2 emissions and operational costs – especially in the light of the new IMO sulphur regulation, which came Global service and expertise into force at the start of 2020 and would require China Navigation to for CS Wind switch to more expensive low-sulphur fuel. The solution When leading wind tower producer CS Wind needed to set-up a factory China Navigation applied our advanced Hempaguard X7 hull coating in Taiwan fast, we worked with them to ensure the coating application to four of its vessels in 2018 and was extremely pleased with the line was optimised for fast application and long-term performance. results. The coating improves vessel hydrodynamics to significantly reduce fuel costs and associated CO2 emissions. Also, unlike many The challenge other hull coatings on the market, it continues to perform if the vessel CS Wind is one of the world’s largest producers of wind towers, changes trading patterns or undergoes long idle periods – which with production units in seven countries. In 2019, CS Wind was means China Navigation can change vessel usage to suit market contracted to produce wind turbine towers for a large offshore wind demand. In 2019, we introduced Hempaguard MaX, an extremely farm in Taiwan. CS Wind had no production in Taiwan, so it moved efficient hull coating that builds on the performance of Hempaguard quickly to set-up a new facility – and needed our assistance X7 to push the boundaries of fuel efficiency and emissions reductions establishing the ideal coating application. even further. In addition, Hempaguard MaX reduces the number of coats required from five to three, which can significantly reduce dock The solution rents and costs during application. We continue to work with China Hempel has been part of the wind energy business since the very Navigation and will coat a number of its vessels in 2020 and 2021 beginning. Our coatings were used on Vindeby, the world’s first with our advanced hull coatings, including Hempaguard MaX. offshore wind farm, in Denmark in 1991, and the farm continued to operate with the original coating system until it was decommissioned in 2017. As a global customer, CS Wind relies on us to deliver coatings of consistent quality to all its production units around the world. When CS Wind began setting up its new production unit in Taiwan, our expert coating advisors were onsite to advise on the coating application section of the production line to ensure optimum coating application speed with minimum costs and waste. We delivered the first coatings to the factory in December 2019 and will continue to deliver just-intime coatings as CS Wind ramps up production at the start of 2020. Bulk carrier, Wuhu. Customer-focused innovation | 25 In 2019, we further improved our internal control systems while continuing to ensure that high compliance levels are well anchored in all aspects of the business. Corporate governance The purpose of corporate governance within ensures management is close to customers Annual General Meeting in the calendar year Hempel is to ensure that Hempel is led, Hempel’s management structure (globally, regionally and locally) and the daily in which the member reaches 70 years of age. managed and operated as a modern global business, enables management to drive company and a leader in the coatings industry. Board of Directors group-wide initiatives, and helps speed up Employee representatives are elected in accordWe aim to build on best practices from within decision-making processes and strategy ance with the Danish Companies Act, for terms of and learn from other companies and organisaThe Remuneration execution. We have employees in more than 80 four years. An election took place in 2019. The Audit tions. Our strong corporate governance supports and Nomination countries and we insist that management fully Committee Committee value creation for our customers, suppliers, empowers them and includes them in our Composition and responsibilities employees and the communities in which we strategy execution, as this is required for of the Board of Directors operate. It also determines a clear distribution of Executive Management Board success in a global and highly competitive The composition of the Board of Directors is a mix management responsibilities, which contributes industry. Our organisational model supports this. of professional Board members and members to the long-term success of the company. with executive positions. This composition is In order to ensure that our management teams deemed appropriate as it provides a good balance In 2019, we continued to improve the overall across the globe understand and share a between knowledge, competencies and internal control framework by strengthening our on page 20). Our regions focus on supporting common vision, the Hempel Group operates an experience. internal control systems and continued the our customers, both locally and globally. They Annual Management Cycle, a yearly manageupgrade of our Enterprise Resource Planning are responsible for operational execution and ment wheel that ensures our management The Board of Directors is responsible for safesystem to ensure that systems are established have full profit/loss responsibility. Our four teams across the globe understand and share a guarding the interests of the shareholder, while around our policies and guidelines. We also Group functions ensure process excellence, common vision. also considering all other stakeholders. At least introduced a new employee onboarding functional leadership and operational synergies once a year, the Board of Directors assesses its framework that ensures all new employees across the Group. Board of Directors most important tasks, based on the overall have a fast introduction to policies and The Board of Directors consists of six members strategic direction of the Hempel Group and complete compliance training within the first The Executive Management Board consists of elected by the shareholder at the Annual including the financial and managerial supervision two weeks of employment. the heads of the four Group functions and the General Meeting and three employee members of the Group. As part of its assessment, the Board CEO. The Operational Management Board elected by the employees based in Denmark. of Directors evaluates the performance of the Management structure consists of the Executive Management Board, Board members elected by the shareholder at Executive Management Board on a continual The Hempel Group is organised in two dimenthe head of Strategy and M&A, and the heads of the Annual General Meeting are elected for an basis. The Board of Directors and Executive sions: Regions and Group functions (see figure the regions. This organisational structure annual term and can be elected up until the Management Board have a formal agreement Corporate governance | 27 The Annual Management Cycle ol S cho Bo ar er Hempel Summer Board Strategy Day Hempel Leadership Day m tegy School Summit He mpel S tra um dS Hempel’s top The Executive Hempel’s top 25 leaders Management Board 150 leaders gather ­review and refine meets with the to set the agenda the company Hempel Board of for the year ahead strategy at IMD Directors to review H em Business School the strategy plan pe i t l Lead mm e r s h ip S u with the Hempel Foundation, the ultimate owner marketing and commercialisation through to Remuneration for notice of termination are determined indivi­ of the Hempel Group, regarding decisions that finance and human resources. Hempel offers its Board of Directors and dually for each member of the Executive must be presented to the Hempel Foundation Executive Management Board remuneration that Management Board. The company has a general for agreement. Each year the Board of Directors carries out a is competitive with industry peers and other fixed termination notice of 12-18 months if given self-evaluation of its competencies and skills, global companies, as this enables it to attract by the company and six months if given by a Competencies of the Board of Directors including those of the Chair and of individual and retain competent and professional business member of the Executive Management Board. Hempel’s Board of Directors strives to recruit Board members. The evaluation is carried out leaders and Board members. Board members with a diverse range of systematically, using clearly defined criteria to Members of the Board of Directors receive fixed mutually complementary skills and expertise. ensure the Board constantly improves both its Remuneration of the Executive Management remuneration and do not participate in any When the Board of Directors proposes new own performance and its cooperation with the Board is based on a fixed-base salary, plus an incentive programmes. Board members, a curriculum vitae and Executive Management Board. annual bonus of up to 67 per cent of the base thorough description of the candidate’s salary. Taking into account the potential to Board committees qualifications are made available to the Diversity meet or fall short of the target, the effective The Board of Directors establishes dedicated shareholder. Hempel is a global leader and, to The Board of Directors believes that diversity potential bonus range is 0–67 per cent of the committees in order to supervise and solve successfully develop and maintain its position, strengthens any governing body and acknowlbase salary. A long-term incentive programme specific tasks. Currently, there are two commitHempel is dependent on global expertise and edges the importance of diversity in general, was launched in 2018 for members of the tees: A Remuneration and Nomination experience at Board level. including diversity of gender, nationality and Executive Management Board. When the Committee, and an Audit Committee. competencies. In 2018, the Board of Directors programme is fully implemented by 2021, the Today, the Board of Directors is a diverse group reached its goal of having two women on the annual bonus for Executive Management can The Remuneration and Nomination Committee of individuals with a mix of global experience, shareholder-elected Board. Following the range from 0-100 per cent of the base salary, According to its charter, the Remuneration and functional competencies and industry backelection of new employee representatives in subject to fulfilment of certain key performance Nomination Committee assists the Board of ground, which ensures that it can fulfil its 2019, the Board welcomed one additional indicators and employment at the Hempel Directors with the recruitment of its executives. obligations. As well as in-depth knowledge of female member, making a total of four female Group at the time of the pay-out. In addition, it assists with the establishment of Hempel’s business, Board members possess Board members. More information on our remuneration for the Group’s executives and expertise within a wide range of areas, from initiatives to increase diversity in Hempel The Executive Management Board has severance helps ensure that the Group’s general remunerainnovation, product development, online can be found on page 42. agreements in line with market terms. Conditions tion policies are balanced appropriately. The 28 | existing long-term incentive programme is aligned with comparable listed companies. Furthermore, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors in relation to the skills that the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board must have to best perform their tasks. Each year, the committee evaluates the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board, and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors in regard to any changes. The committee helps prepare the Board of Directors’ work by selecting candidates with the assistance of a professional global search firm. The committee convenes as necessary. However, it has two fixed meetings during the year, in February and November. The Audit Committee According to its charter, the Audit Committee’s work includes assisting the Board of Directors with fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the internal and external audit process, the Group’s process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and its Code of Conduct, as well as risk management. Further, the Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors with its tasks in regard to preparing the annual report and the audit thereof and policies related to it. In 2019, the committee reviewed initiatives to further strengthen compliance as well as the internal control framework, including updating internal policies and procedures. In addition, the committee reviewed the Group’s whistleblower reporting system and whistleblower cases, the main accounting principles and judgments, and tax compliance and key risks. Internal Audit function The Group Internal Audit function is part of the Group’s Finance function. The Head of Group Corporate governance | 29 Internal Audit meets separately with both the applicable to the business and surrounding Committee has an oversight role and reviews Audit Committee and the Group’s external Meeting activity 2019 environment. both the effectiveness of the system for auditor at least once a year. During 2019, the monitoring compliance with laws and regulations Internal Audit function continued to strengthen Board of Directors In 2019, all Hempel employees except producand the results of compliance investigations and internal procedures and compliance awareness 25 February 12 April 30 September tion, warehouse and store staff completed follow-up, including disciplinary action. The through site visits. The results and recommenda1 March 23 May 24 October employee Code of Conduct eLearning with a Ethics Committee consists of: The Group Chief tions were reported to both local and executive 1 April 25 June 6 December pass rate of 100 per cent. Financial Officer, Group Chief People & Culture management. Officer and Group General Counsel. The whistleblower reporting system Audit Committee In accordance with its charter, the Audit Hempel has had an internal whistleblower You can read more about our work in this area, Committee annually considers the need for an 22 February 23 September reporting system since 2012. The current including reporting statistics from our whistleInternal Audit function. Based on the recommen22 May 2 December whistleblower system, launched in 2017, blower system, on page 49. dations of the Audit Committee, the Board of enables any employee or external stakeholder Directors determines whether an Internal Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committee to anonymously report potentially irregular or function is required and whether internal control unethical conduct through an internet portal, by systems are adequate. The Board of Directors’ 25 February 6 December email or via a local phone number. The system is assessment, which is based on the company’s an important tool to ensure that allegations of size and the organisation of the Finance function, irregular or unethical conduct are reported and is that the organisation in place and the plans operates, and describe the responsibilities and addressed quickly. All reports are treated laid out are adequate to ensure the necessary ethical standards expected of all employees and confidentially and followed up by an objective focus on compliance for the entire Group. relevant business partners. To ensure and and independent investigation. document employees’ familiarity with the Code Business ethics and compliance of Conduct, Business Ethics Policy and other key All reports are reviewed by the Compliance and Hempel’s commitment to business ethics and policies, relevant employees electronically sign Corporate Responsibility Director, who recomcompliance with international regulations and off on their compliance within specific areas. mends appropriate action to the Ethics internal policies is anchored in its Code of Committee. The Ethics Committee then approves Conduct, Business Ethics Policy and other In 2019, Hempel’s compliance framework was how to handle reported issues and decides on internal corporate guidelines. These outline the further strengthened to ensure that the appropriate action following the investigation, fundamental requirements for how Hempel procedures are adequate, sufficient and including disciplinary action. The Audit 30 | Hempel Ethics Hotline A link to the Hempel Ethics Hotline can be found on the Corporate responsibility section of hempel.com Corporate governance | 31 Risks We continually collaborate across the Group to evaluate and mitigate risk. As a global company working in many industry segments and with a wide range of operational activities, the Hempel Group is exposed to a variety of risks and opportunities. Risks are therefore a natural part of our business and a precondition for being able to create value. Across our organisation, we work continuously to evaluate the risks we face and to assess the level of acceptable risk within the business. This is done through a process and governance structure with clear roles and responsibilities for identifying and reviewing risks as well as following up on mitigating actions. Risk governance The Board of Directors has final responsibility for risk management and is the final approver of risk tolerance and risk mitigation activities. The Audit Committee monitors key risks, as well as the risk management process and governance structure. The Group Risk Committee has overall responsibility for running the risk management process and governance structure within the day-to-day business. It also evaluates consolidated risks and In 2019, we saw increasing complexity in laws Internally, we continue to see the positive effects the status of mitigating actions at Group level. and regulations and this is reflected in our risk of our comprehensive compliance programme as register. The risk of cyber-attack also has a more well as our efforts to lower the risk of fire. The risk management process significant impact on our overall risk picture. Every year, a group-wide risk analysis is carried out, in which risks are assessed and quantified by key employees in Hempel’s regions and Group functions. The risks are subsequently addressed and mitigated internally to reduce risk exposure to an acceptable level. We focus on Risk matrix risks that can impact our ability to execute our strategy in the next 2-5 years, as well as High 5 2 1 Supply chain, China operational risks in our regions. Both types of risks are included in the key risk section below. 2 Cyberattack 3, 4 1 Impact Key risks 3 Increasing complexity in laws and regulation The key risks described here are risks that we have assessed to be the most material to 4 Fluctuating raw material prices Hempel. This implies that the list is not exhaustive – there may be other risks that at a later 5 Changing point could develop into material risks. We Low market trends monitor these risks and work continuously to Likelihood mitigate the risk in the best possible way. Low High Risks | 33 Key risks Risk Description Potential impact Actions Supply chain, In 2019, one of our factories was • Loss of service to customers Ongoing China temporarily closed by the authorities if not managed carefully • To mitigate short-term risk, we produce products at some of our other factories due to circumstances outside of or use toll manufacturers when necessary our control. • Investing in new and modern factories in China In 2019 • Products produced at our other factories and by toll manufacturers to temporarily supply to customers in the region. We have managed to deliver high quality products to our customers, despite the temporary factory closure Cyberattack There is a risk that the availability • Loss of the ability to run the Ongoing of critical business systems could be business as usual • Use of IT security control programmes and mechanisms held to ransom by a malicious actor. • Loss of business-critical data • Mandatory IT security e-learning • Potential impact of resources • Regular phishing tests required to recover critical systems In 2019 • Crisis Management Team established, including exercises Increasing Hempel has a wide global footprint. • Loss of customers or business Ongoing complexity Although this is an advantage to us and • Potential regulatory fines • Monitoring of legal frameworks and review of policies in place in laws and our customers, the increasing complexity • Mandatory e-learning in all relevant areas of compliance regulation in laws and regulations can create an • Further training of compliance managers exposure. In 2019 • Extension of e-learning and training programmes 34 | Risk Description Potential impact Actions Fluctuating raw Raw materials account for a large share • Potentially significant impact on Ongoing material prices of our costs, and cost are volatile. Hempel’s profit and cash flow • Mitigating of our raw material exposure mainly takes place through adjustment of the sales process and continuous process excellence improvements • Management control and governance of our sales price adjustment process • Use of a detailed financial model, including cost of goods sold and governance Changing There is a risk that the coating • Loss of profits on existing Ongoing market trends industry will face large changes products • Monitoring of technology trends in Hempel’s end markets due to disruptive technologies. The • Reduction in size of the • Targeted product innovation through partnerships with customers and universities likelihood of this happening is high, coatings market but it is not likely to happen in the • Weakening of Hempel’s In 2019 short term (3-5 years). competitive position • Pilot technology road mapping introduced • Potentially significant impact • Overhaul of our innovation process on Hempel’s sales earnings • Changing market trends also create an opportunity for Hempel in terms of innovation of new products Risks | 35 We continued our journey to embed sustainability in all our business activities. Corporate responsibility UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations has identified 17 Sustainable Development Goals to help address the global challenges of poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, prosperity, peace and injustice. The following pages describe how our current programmes contribute to achieving these goals. We are continuously working to make our world a better place through our operations and products. We follow the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and support the principles in the UN Global Compact. Our efforts in these areas have resulted in good progress in a number of initiatives related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2019, we continued our journey towards embedding sustainability as a strategic element in our business. This included using the Future-Fit benchmark, a comprehensive tool that enables companies to plan a path towards a sustainable and responsible business in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We used Future-Fit to define where our company has the biggest impact on the environment and society, and to establish how we can make most progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. Based on this work, we will continue to implement activities that have a positive impact on society and the environment, and ensure we enable our customers to reach their sustainability goals. We work with a third-party auditor to improve our data collection and validation process, and we are pleased that this report again includes a limited independent assurance statement on our sustainability data with no qualifications in the conclusion. The following pages constitute our Communi­cation on Progress (COP) as required by the UN Global Compact as well as information required by the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a and 99b. Corporate responsibility | 37 Health & safety Ensuring our products are safe and our employees have a safe place to work. 38 | Forklift truck competition Forklift trucks are one of the most common causes of accidents at Hempel. In 2019, our Crown Paints colleagues arranged a competition to find the safest forklift truck driver. The competition included safely navigating obstacles and helped raise awareness of the importance of safe forklift truck driving in a positive and fun way. Our Group Health, Safety and Environmental down. Therefore, in 2019, we focused on spotting where possible. We prioritise raw materials Policy defines our promise to comply with all and reporting potential unsafe work environments based on their potential hazard and are applicable legal and non-regulatory requireand situations, and we were pleased to see that committed to reducing or phasing out hazardous World Safety Day ments, to continually improve and to work to there was a steep documented increase in substances – known as red raw materials. Our prevent illness and injuries to our employees reported near misses. We continue to work to priority list centres on carcinogenic, mutagenic In support of the International Labour and the end-users of our products. This investigate these accidents further through our and reprotoxic (CMR) substances and subOrganisation, Hempel once again held a commitment to health and safety is embedded ratio measurement of lost time accidents and stances that potentially have a long-term World Safety Day, on 26 April. A number in our company values and employee Code of near misses. In addition, we launched safety detrimental effect on the environment. of activities were arranged across the Conduct – and it requires that we continually leadership training, a full day’s safety training for organisation, including a specially created review our work practices to eliminate risk and supply chain leaders. The concept will be rolled In 2019, we phased out 25 red raw materials, health and safety ‘dilemma game’ and an ultimately ensure a healthy and safe work out across our organisation in 2020. and reduced the overall use of red raw materials internal video competition focused on ‘The environment for all of our employees. per litre of coating produced by 8.6 per cent 8 ways to keep Hempel a safe place’, which Phasing out red raw materials from 8.8 to 8.04 (kg/ 1,000 L paint produced). resulted in 25 videos produced by employFocus on reducing accidents We are committed to providing sustainable ees at our production sites. In 2019, we saw an increase in the number, solutions to our customers that minimise their Safe Use Mixture Information for end-users although not severity, of lost time accidents impact on the environment and do not jeopardIn 2019, we were one of the first coatings (occupational accidents resulting in at least one ise the health and safety of their employees. companies to roll out Safe Use Mixture day’s absence following the day of the accident). However, some of our products contain subInformation (SUMI) on all of our products in the The frequency increased from 1.72 in 2018 to stances that are potentially harmful to the EU. SUMI improves safety information to our 2.68 in 2019 (lost time accident frequency per environment and people’s health. Our Group customers, which enables them to make better 1,000,000 working hours). We believe that a Health, Safety and Environmental Policy sets risk assessments and plan the safest process proactive safety culture will bring that number out our commitment to seek out safer materials when applying our products. Corporate responsibility | 39 Our people All people are different. At Hempel, we value different perspectives and constantly challenge each other to become better at what we do. Our people are our greatest asset. We want to We saw an impressive increase in overall To maintain these good results, we must be the employer of choice and believe that one satisfaction and motivation of 3 points, from 71 continue to focus on leadership, employee of the ways to do this is by creating a work in 2018 to 74 in 2019, and we are now among involvement and communication, both internally environment where everyone can develop. the top quartile of global companies. Since we and externally, in the years to come. began the annual survey three years ago, we Making everyone feel part of the family have seen a steady increase in satisfaction and Investing in our leadership pipeline In 2019, we welcomed 665 new colleagues motivation across the Group. Our North Asia Our transformational journey can only succeed to Hempel. All new colleagues must be region in particular has made great progress by if we are all engaged and passionate about introduced to our organisation and processes, increasing focus on employee engagement at all moving our company forward. This journey and we want them to quickly feel part of the levels of the organisation and improving its begins with our leaders. In 2018, we introduced family. To take our new colleagues more initiatives around working conditions, job content 10 Leadership Competencies, which explain smoothly from ‘beginning’ to ‘belonging’, we and leadership. what it takes to be a Hempel leader in terms of launched a new global onboarding programme Leading Self, Leading Others and Leading the in 2019. The programme structures our In 2019, our global employee Net Promoter Score Business. In 2019, we launched 10 Learning onboarding procedures to ensure we offer all (eNPS) was 35, an increase of 14 points Journeys to help employees in leadership new colleagues a great initial experience. This, compared to 2018, showing even more employpositions develop these competencies. The in turn, should ensure a stronger commitment ees would recommend Hempel as a place of work 10 Learning Journeys are delivered through and a higher sense of loyalty to Hempel, which to others. We can see that the gap in eNPS a combination of podcasts, videos, business will have a positive effect on retention, reduce between leaders and managers and other cases and other activities, enabling our leaders time-to-­performance and limit costs arising employees has shrunk, which indicates that our to pick and choose those most relevant to their from unsuccessful onboarding. efforts to cascade engagement throughout the development needs and learning style. organisation is paying dividends. Employee loyalty Employee Engagement Survey also increased significantly in 2019, rising from 82 We also introduced a suite of nine personal We are very pleased that 90 per cent of our points in 2018 to 85 points. This places Hempel development training programmes for all employpeople worldwide responded to our annual above the top quartile global benchmark of 83 ees across the organisation. The programmes Employee Engagement Survey, which was again points, and shows that the majority of our cover a range of areas – from Personal Efficiency carried out across all countries and functions. employees are very committed to the company. and Basic Finance to Cross-Cultural Management 40 | and Unconscious Bias & Decision Making – and give our employees a chance to develop their skills and abilities through online training. To continually strengthen our organisation, we support targeted development of high potential talents throughout their careers. In 2019, we launched Pioneer, a global graduate programme to attract high potential leadership talents early in their careers. 22 new or recent graduates began the 18-month programme during the year. With the launch of Pioneer, we now offer three development programmes for high potential talents, running from graduate through to executive level. • Pioneer. A global graduate programme to attract high potential leadership talent at the beginning of their careers. • Explorer. A talent programme for mid-level leaders, focusing on building leadership capabilities and accelerating personal development. • Challenger. A talent programme for the most senior leaders in our organisation, with focus on strategy, implementation and leadership for executives. Corporate responsibility | 41 Hempel Employee Foundations The Hempel Employee Foundations provide financial support to current and retired employees of the Hempel Group and their immediate family in the event of unfortunate situations or to enable better education opportunities. The People Promise getting these priorities done. The Hempel In 2019, we strengthened our female mentoring Satisfaction & Motivation score In 2019, we introduced the People Promise, Leadership Summit is part of our Annual programme, which uses mentors to help female new employer branding that will help ensure we Management Cycle. leaders develop in their current roles and prepare 74 69 71 attract and retain the best colleagues in the for future roles. By the end of the year, 18 female 60 business. The People Promise is based on Giving everyone an opportunity to develop leaders had gone through or were going through interviews and surveys with over 800 Our Diversity and Equal Opportunity Policy the 12-month programme. In addition, we worked colleagues – including over 700 that joined applies to all Hempel offices and ensures that all to improve our employer branding and to ensure it 40 Hempel within the last two years – to find out employment and career development decisions attracts candidates of both genders. what makes Hempel a special place to work. are based on merit and made to support The research identified four key pillars that business goals. Through our talent management Learning and development 20 together make Hempel stand out from other process, we asses more than 2,100 employees improved through Let’s Talk employers: employee empowerment, familyannually in order to identify leadership potential Learning and development are key priorities oriented, global and our unique ownership and development opportunities. This process across all functions and levels of our organisamodel. The People Promise was launched on ensures that all our leaders are given equal tion. In 2017, we introduced an employee 2017 2018 2019 our new website in November 2019 and also opportunities for growth. development tool called Let’s Talk. forms the basis of our LinkedIn Life profile. In 2020, we will launch a new recruitment toolkit We acknowledge that the number of women In 2019, Let’s Talk was rolled out to employees based on the People Promise to help hiring in management positions at Hempel does not in our factories and warehouses to make sure 2018 and 78 in 2017. In the years to come, managers and HR staff identify and attract the reflect the number of women in our organisamanagers and employees across all levels and we will continue to focus on creating an right candidates for our company. tion. Therefore, we have set a target. Our goal locations have regular dialogues on how they organisation in which everyone can develop. is for 25 per cent of management positions to can develop in their jobs. In total, 89 per cent of Hempel Leadership Summit be held by women in 2022, which would mirror all employees had a Let’s Talk dialogue with their Enabling our sales organisation The Hempel Leadership Summit is our annual the percentage of women in our organisation. direct manager, resulting in development plans to reach our ambitious targets leadership conference. This year our 150 top Currently, 20 per cent of management positions for the individual. Our company has ambitious growth targets. leaders and selected talents gathered in are held by women. We acknowledge that we To help achieve those targets, we rolled out a Copenhagen, Denmark on 21-22 November. The need to work even harder to reach our target. Our focus on employee development has seen a training programme for sales staff across the theme of this year’s summit was ‘Winning We have established a team of Challenger steady increase in our learning and development Hempel Group to lift capabilities and ensure we together’ and it focused on executing our participants who will work on strengthening score in our Employee Engagement Survey over focus on customer needs consistently. Last year, strategy by being very explicit about our our approach to diversity and inclusion going the last three years. In 2019, learning and more than 789 of our sales colleagues underpriorities and engaging our global workforce in forward. development increased to 81, up from 80 in went the training. 42 | Responsible supply chain management We demand high standards from our suppliers and other business partners. 44 | We extend our commitment to the UN Global Our Business Partner Code of Conduct In 2019, we stopped working with one supplier Compact and the United Nations’ Guiding Our Business Partner Code of Conduct who was not willing to engage and improve Principles on Business and Human Rights to our clearly describes what we expect from our according to our requirements. suppliers and other business partners. Our high suppliers. Adherence to our Business Partner standards are reflected in our Supplier Policy and Code of Conduct is mandatory for all suppliers Focus on due diligence of forced labour our Business Partner Code of Conduct, where we globally and is an integrated part of our global Our Human Rights Policy clearly states that state our expectations regarding quality, the e-sourcing system. Both our direct and indirect we do not employ child labour or forced labour. environment, health & safety, procurement staff are trained in how to use the This commitment is extended to our business human rights and business ethics. Business Partner Code of Conduct when in a partners, as clearly stated in our Business dialogue with suppliers to ensure commitment Partner Code of Conduct. Our Responsible Procurement Committee and progress from suppliers. focuses on legal compliance and progress in this Conflict minerals important area and oversees our Responsible Supplier evaluations We do not use conflict minerals – such as Procurement Programme, which consists of: Each year, we conduct an evaluation of a number tantalum, tin, gold or tungsten – or their derivatives of suppliers. If the suppliers do not live up to our in our products. This means we already comply • An independent annual evaluation of selected standards, we ask for improvement plans. If with the requirements in future legislation in the EU suppliers, based on a risk assessment related our recommendations are not followed, we will Conflict Minerals Regulation, as well as the existing to country and product category, conducted by ultimately terminate the relationship. In 2019, 52 Dodd-Frank Act Section 1502 on due diligence of Eco Vadis suppliers were evaluated. Of these, five suppliers conflict minerals. • Thorough screening of all new raw material received a low evaluation score and were suppliers worldwide therefore identified for an on-site visit. If needed • Selected focus projects based on a risk analysis an improvement plan will be requested to make • Training of internal staff sure the supplier meets our standards. Corporate responsibility | 45 Environment The waste hierarchy Reuse Recycling We believe that we all have Incineration a role to play in improving our environmental performance Landfill and that together we can be a force of change. We work to help our customers reduce their environmental impact and are committed to reducing energy consumption and waste across our own operations. Our environmental commitment is outlined in our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, which refers to environmental compliance, the prevention of pollution and continuous improvement. Helping customers to reduce environmental impact Many of our products, services and solutions help customers achieve their environmental targets by reducing energy use or emissions. Our hull coatings for ocean-going vessels, for example, Energy saving campaign improve vessel hydrodynamics to reduce fuel In 2019, we launched a month-long consumption and associated emissions, while we energy saving campaign in all factories. offer many waterborne products that reduce VOC This included a competition to generate emissions compared to solvent-borne alternaenergy saving ideas and reduce consumptives. We also work closely with customers to tion. Utilising our energy toolbox, Hempel develop new solutions that further reduce their Russia won with a total reduction of impact on the environment. 606,000 kWh. They managed to reduce energy use by switching to LED lights, Reducing energy use adjusting tank farm and pipeline tempera‘Power to change’ is a key theme in our internal tures, and turning off lights and equipcommunications around energy savings. Our focus ment when not in use. on energy use in 2019 resulted in a reduction in our relative energy consumption of 6.5 per cent, which is in line with our 2019 target. Many Our waste disposal* of these savings were achieved by optimising Recycled Packaging Programme From plastic waste to paint containers our operations and sharing best practices between regions. 15% 46% In China, regulation limits hazardous waste and requires that it is disposed of by a Through Crown Paints, Hempel has begun using paint containers made of 100 per qualified third party. As a result, many of cent recycled plastic. This makes us the first Our waste hierarchy our customers would like to reduce their paint manufacturer in the UK to do so. The Since 2018, we have worked to reduce waste paint packaging waste. Our solution is to plastic in the containers is made by in all our regions through the use of a waste hierarchy model. This work involves analysing 18% deliver coatings in intermediate bulk separating polypropylene plastics, such as containers (IBCs) – large containers that shampoo bottles, yoghurt pots, water our waste management practices to find ways are picked-up, refilled and reused – instead bottles and household appliances from to improve, and looking for opportunities to of 200-litre drums or 20-litre cans. As well unusable plastic waste – an innovative reduce and reuse our waste materials, with the as reducing waste, the IBCs are sealed manufacturing process that saves thouelimination of waste at source being the preferred option wherever possible. 21% during filling and spraying, which signifisands of tons of post-consumer waste from *The figure shows how we cantly reduces VOC emissions compared ending up in landfill. Following the successdispose of our waste according to the waste hierarchy. to cans. We successfully implemented the ful introduction of 2.5 and 5 litre versions, Our waste key performance indicator for 2019 solution with our customer Tianda in 2019 the cans will be introduced across our entire was to reduce landfill waste by 5 per cent. This Recycling Incineration Landfill Reuse and are now working to roll it out to others. Crown Paints range in 2020, including was achieved through an extensive waste larger 10 litre tubs and Crown Trade mapping exercise across all our applicable “The solution improves our environmental products. They are marked with recycling production sites, increased data control, improved and business performance by focusing icons to make them easy to recognise and reporting processes and locally designed waste on root cause. It was achieved because are the ideal choice for environmentally reduction plans. In 2019, we also trialled the use we were willing to overcome challenges conscious consumers. of ‘smart scales’ at our production facility in Hull, together. Taking paint packaging into UK. Smart scales allow us to track and report on consideration in this way shows that both our waste data automatically, and will improve our our companies share the same values.” waste management and data-driven decisionYuhong Mao, Production Manager at Tianda. making. We will roll smart scales out across the group in 2020. Corporate responsibility | 47 Ethical behaviour Our business is built on trust. We earn trust and inspire confidence through the way we do business. 48 | Whistleblower statistics 2017 2018 2019 Cases reported 51 51 34 Hereof substantiated* 23 12 12 Hereof not substantiated* 28 35 10 Cases under investigation** 0 4 12 * Case substantiation rate updated as of 31.12.2019 ** Status as of 31.12.2019 Hempel is committed to conducting business received 34 whistleblower reports from 20 Ensuring ethical behaviour beyond Hempel We acknowledge the need for a joint effort ethically, respectfully and honestly at all times. countries. The number of cases reported has We continue to ensure our high ethical standin the fight against facilitation payments. To help ensure this happens, our employee Code decreased in comparison to previous years but we ards reach beyond Hempel to our suppliers and Therefore, we work with other multinational of Conduct lays out how our employees are continue to receive a healthy number of reports, other stakeholders. companies, non-governmental organisations expected to behave and conduct business. indicating that we have a sound ‘speak up’ culture and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in and are trusted by our employees to act upon the Our Business Partner Code of Conduct sets out the Fight Against Facilitation Payments Initiative A strong ethical culture reports received. To maintain this speak up what we expect of our suppliers, joint-venture (FAFPI). One of the main objectives of FAFPI is In 2019, we further strengthened our compliance culture, our management teams continue to talk partners, toll manufacturers, distributors, to collect real-life data on facilitation payment work through a number of initiatives and actions. about ethical behaviour openly and frequently, and agents, consultants and other business requests. Data submitted through FAFPI will business ethics is very much a part of our values partners. The Business Partner Code of Conduct be shared with the Danish Ministry of Foreign As in previous years, all employees except and how we conduct business. takes into account the UN Global Compact’s ten Affairs, which can use diplomatic channels to production, warehouse and store staff comfundamental principles within the areas of address the issue with its local counterparts pleted our annual mandatory employee Code of Over the past years, we have seen an increased human rights, labour rights, the environment and in order to address the demands. Hempel is Conduct eLearning. The eLearning is tailor-made complexity in international laws and regulations. anti-corruption. As a part of our procurement a founding member of FAFPI. for Hempel by Hempel and inspired by real-life In 2019, we extended our e-learning proprocess we require mandatory adherence to our challenging situations faced by some of our grammes to include Sanctions and Export Business Partner Code of Conduct before we employees. In total, over 4,000 employees took Control for relevant employees. We will continue can engage in a business relationship. This the eLearning, with a pass rate of 100 per cent. to train our employees globally in sanctions and means that we ask our business partners to export control compliance to ensure that they confirm adherence to the standards in the Code Our Hempel Ethics Hotline is available in nearly all understand the complexity of these issues and and to commit to setting the same expectations countries where we have offices. In 2019, we follow our policies. for their own business partners. Corporate responsibility | 49 As a company, we believe that we should contribute to society in general and the local communities in which we operate. Community engagement Engaging with students in Korea Hempel engaged with students from Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology as well as the Danish Technical University in a case competition. The winning case looked at how to introduce circular economy thinking into Hempel’s business model. A prize was presented to the winning students by HRH Crown Prince Frederik of Denmark. Offering support when times are tough Our founder J.C. Hempel firmly believed that a company should give back to society. This belief Our organisation in the US runs a number remains at the heart of our company today, and of community projects, driven and funded social commitment is one of our four company Girl’s Day in Science by Hempel employees. Among other values. As a company, we give back in a number things, the projects help prepare of ways: Not just through our owner, the Hempel We engage with local schools and universities all over the globe to help young teenagers for the next steps in life and Foundation; but also through initiatives organised supply food, clothes, shoes and school by our employees on a local or corporate level. students understand the world of science. One initiative is Girls’ Day in Science, which supplies for families that need them. Here are just a few examples of these initiatives in 2019, driven by our company and colleagues. is held at several of our sites each year to On 19 September 2019, a major storm increase young schoolgirls’ interest in the flooded many homes in Conroe, near our Volunteering at a Hempel Foundation project natural and technical sciences. In main US office. Three Hempel colleagues Our owner the Hempel Foundation supports September, for example, we welcomed 30 lost their belongings and were displaced projects around the world that empower children girls aged 14-15 to our R&D facility in from their homes by the floods. Our US living in poverty to learn. Since 2011, the Hempel Lyngby, Denmark. We introduced the girls to colleagues immediately gathered to Foundation has initiated projects supporting our work with the UN Sustainable assist them, giving money and time to quality education for 180,000 children. 120,000 Development Goals and gave them a help get their lives back to normal as of them are in projects that are currently either hands-on introduction to coating quickly as possible. ongoing or being developed. To give our employformulation. Brightening lives with Nightsafe ees a chance to contribute to this work, we arrange volunteering trips to different Foundation Crown Paints injected colour into the lives Shanghai Basic Education projects. Hempel pays the employees’ travel costs of some of the most vulnerable people in and expenses; the employees donate their time. Blackburn, UK by repainting a local In October, 35 Hempel employees and In previous years, employees have volunteered at resource centre for young homeless people. family members from Shanghai and projects in Cambodia, Mozambique, Bolivia, The resource centre is run by Nightsafe, a Kunshan volunteered at Shanghai Basic Indonesia, Tanzania, Vietnam and Peru. local charity that provides services to Education, a project run by Save the homeless and vulnerable people aged Children in cooperation with the Hempel In October, eight Hempel employees volunteered 16-24. As well as donating the paints, Foundation. During the activity day, 70 at a Hempel Foundation project in West Timor, colleagues from Crown Paints worked with children and parents from migrant schools Indonesia. The Foundation has worked in West Nightsafe staff and users for three days to in Shanghai and Kunshan gathered to learn Timor since 2013. The current project involves redecorate the resource centre’s kitchen, about healthy living and child development 12 schools and will reach around 1,700 children. living areas and bathrooms facilities. The through fun games and activities. At the During the eight-day trip, the Hempel volunteers project is just the start of what is hoped to end of the day, we handed over more than helped out at the schools, leading activities with be a long relationship between Crown 200 children’s books to the school, the children and introducing them to the world Paints and Nightsafe. donated by our colleagues. outside their local communities. Corporate responsibility | 51 Sustainability Percentage of employees with a Hempel e-mail address completed and signed-off on Code of Conduct refresher training The percentage is calculated as the number of to or from work are not included. The number of working hours used to calculate the lost time accident frequency is based on the number of full-time employees working for Hempel, data employees who have completed and signed off multiplied by the most recent OECD average on the Code of Conduct Refresher eLearning in for actual working hours of 1,734 hours per Hempel’s Learning Management System out of employee per year (2018). the total target group, consisting of over 4,000 employees. The target group consists of Consumption of red raw materials employees who: (kg/1,000 L paint produced) • joined the company before October 2019 Red raw materials is a subset of raw materials (newer employees are assigned a longer used in Hempel’s production, which is monitored course on Code of Conduct fundamentals, as and compiled in our ERP system. The consumppart of their onboarding process) tion of red raw materials is calculated as tons of • had an active email address as of the day of red raw materials registered in our ERP system the rollout in November per 1,000 litres of product produced. The • were not on long-term leave, and not volume of paint produced is calculated based on expected to depart Hempel before year-end production data in our ERP system. Accounting principles Compliance cases reported A raw material is considered a red raw material if Scope and consolidation Disclosure requirements, cf. §99a and 99b The number of compliance cases include all it carries any of the following hazard classificaUnless otherwise stated, the Sustainability Data of the Danish Financial Statements Act cases recorded in our Hempel Ethics Hotline tions according to the UN Globally Harmonised are reported based on the same principles as system, operated by NAVEX Global, and are System for Classification and Labelling: the financial statements. Thus, the Sustainability Disclosure requirements See page handled in accordance with the guidelines for • Carcinogen mutagen reprotoxic (CMR) Data include consolidated data from the parent 99a handling of whistleblower reports, as approved category 1A or 1B company Hempel A/S and subsidiaries conPolicies on by the Audit Committee. Compliance cases can • Acute toxic category 1, 2 or 3 trolled by Hempel A/S. The environmental • Human rights • 45 be reported directly through the Hempel Ethics indicators cover all activities at locations where • Worker and social conditions • 42 Hotline; by email to whistle-blower@hempel.com; Or if the raw material has the following • Environment and climate • 46 Hempel has production. This includes 28 by letter, telephone or email directly to manageproperties: • Anti-corruption • 49 factories and 12 R&D facilities in 23 countries, ment; or by internal finding. • Persistent, bioaccumulative and/or toxic referred to below as ‘Hempel sites’. Due diligence process • 45 chemicals (PBT) or very persistent, very Lost time accident frequency bioaccumulative (vPvB) Activities during the year Data relating to lost time accidents are reported (number/1,000,000 working hours) • Human rights • 45 according to operational scope, which means • Worker and social conditions • 38-42 Lost time accident frequency is calculated as Or is listed on the REACH Authorisation list that data are included with 100 per cent • Environment and climate • 46-47 the number of lost time accidents per one (Annex XIV) from 1 January 2018. consolidation for operations where Hempel A/S • Anti-corruption • 48-49 million working hours. is responsible for safety, including the health Energy (kWh/1,000 L paint produced) KPIs and results • 52-53 and safety of external workers. Lost time accidents are defined as occupational Energy consumption is defined as the energy Sustainability risks • 32-35 accidents recorded in our SharePoint system used at Hempel’s production sites and includes Data from acquisitions and divestments are that resulted in at least one day’s absence the amount of electricity, fuel, district heating 99b included/excluded from the date of acquisition/ following the day of the accident. The lost time and gas consumption registered in our Diversity in the Board of Directors • 28 divestment. Changes made to historically (including current gender composition accident frequency is calculated as the number SharePoint system. All energy consumption reported data will only be commented on if and target) of lost time accidents per one million working at Hempel sites is consolidated based on material. hours. Only accidents involving employees invoices. Energy consumption (kWh/1,000 L Diversity in management (including policy, • 42 employed directly or supervised by Hempel are paint produced) is calculated as kWh per 1,000 activities during the year and results) reported. Accidents occurring when commuting L paint produced. The volume of paint pro52 | duced is calculated based on production data packaging, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) equivalent to the ones presented on the product Key Performance Indicator 2017 2018 2019 in our ERP system. in products and toll manu­facturing. These are safety data sheet. All VOCs are converted to outlined in more detail below. carbon dioxide equivalent emissions using xylene Ethical behaviour Waste generation (kg/1,000 L paint produced) as a representative profile. Waste generation is based on amounts of waste Waste % of employees with a Hempel 100% 100% 100% e-mail adress completed recorded from all Hempel sites with production, The calculation of CO2 from waste generation Toll manufacturing and signed off on Code of including factories, R&D facilities and warehousis based on amounts of waste recorded from The calculation of CO2 from toll manufacturing is Conduct training ing, which is registered in Hempel’s SharePoint all Hempel sites with production, including based on the amount of product that has been Compliance cases reported 51 51 34 system. Waste generation is measured based on factories, R&D facilities and warehousing, manufactured at external partners, which is invoices or supporting documentation, such as which is registered in Hempel’s SharePoint registered in our ERP system, under the Health & safety weighing documents. Waste generation system. Waste generation is measured based assumption that one ton of toll-produced goods Lost time accident frequency 2.27 1.72 2.68 (kg/1,000 L paint produced) is calculated as kg on invoices or supporting documentation, such requires the same energy, refrigerants and (number/1,000,000 working waste per 1,000 L paint produced. The volume as weighing documents. Waste includes waste generation as for Hempel production (i.e. hours) of paint produced is calculated based on hazardous and non-hazardous streams, both the impact of these third-party emissions is Consumption of red raw 8.47 8.80* 8.04 production data in our ERP system. solid and liquid waste, which is converted to estimated using the Hempel average material, materials (kg 1,000 L paint produced) CO2 equivalents using Defra (2018 v1.01) energy and waste impacts per ton of paint). Carbon footprint scope 1 conversion factors. Environment (tons CO2/1,000 L paint produced) Employee Engagement – Response rate Energy 274 277 259 Scope 1 covers direct emissions originating from Ingredients Hempel conducts a comprehensive employee (kWh/1,000 L paint produced) Hempel sites. Scope 1 emissions are linked to The calculation of CO2 from ingredients used in engagement survey once a year and all employWaste generation NA 49 56 the energy used in the form of fuel (fuel oils and Hempel’s production is based on the type and ees are invited to participate. The response rate (kg/1,000 L paint produced) natural gas) as well as refrigerants (top up) used amount of raw materials consumed during the is calculated as the number of employees who Carbon footprint scope 1 0.02 0.02 0.02 by and invoiced to Hempel, which is registered in year, which is registered in our ERP system. For have responded to the full survey out of the total (tons CO2/1,000 L paint our SharePoint system. The consumption of fuels each type of raw material, a relevant convernumber of employees. produced and refrigerants are converted to CO2 emissions sion from ecoinvent 3.4 or IPCC (2013) Carbon footprint scope 2 0.10 0.09 0.08 by applying relevant Greenhouse Gas Conversion characterisation factors is applied to the Employee Engagement eNPS (tons CO2/1,000 L paint produced) Factors for Company Reporting from the amount used. The employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is Department for Environment, Food & Rural calculated by using the answer distribution from Carbon footprint scope 3** NA 4.05 3.22 (tons CO2/1,000 L paint Affairs (Defra) in the UK for the relevant year. Packaging the statement: ‘I would recommend others to seek produced) The calculation of CO2 from packaging used in employment at the Hempel Group’. To calculate Carbon footprint scope 2 Hempel’s production is based on volumes the eNPS, we take the percentage of employees Our people (tonnes CO2/1,000 L paint produced) purchased by material type during the year, who answered 9-10 and subtract the percentage Employee Engagement 93% 93% 90% Scope 2 covers indirect emissions from which is registered in our ERP system. For each who answered 1-6 on the 10-point scale. – Response rate purchased electricity and district heating at type of packaging, a relevant conversion factor Employee Engagement 20 21 35 Hempel sites, which is registered in our from Defra (2018 v1.01) is applied to the Employee Engagement – Satisfaction & – Net promotor score SharePoint system. The consumption of amount used. Motivation and Learning & Development Employee Engagement 69 71 74 electricity and district heating is converted to The employee Satisfaction & Motivation and – Satisfaction & Motivation CO2 emissions by applying the location-based Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in products Learning & Development scores are based on a Employee Engagement 78 80 81 conversion factors from the International Energy The calculation of CO2 from VOCs in products is number of questions included in the employee – Learning & Development Agency (2016 & 2017) and Defra (2017, and based on the amount of VOCs in products sold engagement survey. Answers are given on a scale *Scope expanded compared to 2017, see accounting principles. 2018 v1.01) database. (i.e. grams per litre of product sold). Data relating from 1 to 10 and are subsequently converted to **Scope 3 includes: consumption of raw materials, purchase of packaging to products sold is registered in our ERP system index figures on a scale from 0 to 100. material, CO2 from toll manufacturing, CO2 from waste treatment, CO2 from refrigerants, Volatile Organic Compounds in products sold. Carbon footprint scope 3 and the VOC content of the ingredients used in (tons CO2/1,000 L paint produced) our production is registered and managed in our Scope 3 covers the following: waste, consumed Environment, Health & Safety system, Chemmate. raw materials used as ingredients and purchased The VOC values used for sold products are Sustainability data | 53 The Board of Directors of Hempel A/S: Richard Sand, Eric Alström, Marianne Wiinholt, Leif Jensen, Susanna Schneeberger, Søren P. Olesen, Helle Fiedler, Mark Terrell Sutton, Maria Gomis Management’s statement The Board of Directors and the Executive Executive Management Board have today considered and Management adopted the Annual Report of Hempel A/S for the Board financial year 1 January – 31 December 2019. The Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. In our opinion, the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements give a true Lars Petersson Lars Jønstrup Dollerup Peter Kirkegaard Michael Hansen and fair view of the financial position at 31 Group President & Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief People & Culture Officer Chief Commercial Officer December 2019 of the company and the Group and of the results of the company’s and Group’s operations and cash flows for 2019. In our opinion, Management’s Review includes a true and fair account of the development in the operations and financial circumstances of the Group and the parent company, of the results for the year and of the financial position of the Group and the parent company as well as Board of Directors a description of the most significant risks and elements of uncertainty facing the Group and the parent company. In our opinion, the sustainability data represents a reasonable, fair and balanced representation Richard Sand Eric Alström Marianne Wiinholt Leif Jensen Susanna Schneeberger of the Group’s sustainability performance and is Chair Deputy Chair Chair of the Audit Committee presented in accordance with the stated accounting policies. We recommend that the Annual Report be adopted at the Annual General Meeting. Søren P. Olesen Helle Fiedler Mark Terrell Sutton Maria Gomis Kgs. Lyngby, 26 February 2020 Elected by the employees Elected by the employees Elected by the employees Management’s statement | 55 Independent To the shareholder of Hempel A/S Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial does not cover Management’s Review, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. auditor’s statements and the parent company financial In connection with our audit of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statements, our responsibility is to read Manage­ financial position of the Group and the parent ment’s Review and, in doing so, consider whether company at 31 December 2019, and of the Management’s Review is materially inconsistent report results of the Group’s and the parent company’s with the financial statements or our knowledge operations as well as the consolidated cash obtained during the audit, or otherwise appears flows for the finan­cial year 1 January to be materially misstated. Moreover, it is our 31 December 2019 in accordance with the responsibility to consider whether Manage­ment’s Danish Financial Statements Act. Review provides the information required under the Danish Financial Statements Act. We have audited the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial Based on the work we have performed, in our statements of Hempel A/S for the financial year view, Management’s Review is in accordance 1 January 31 December 2019, which comprise with the consolidated financial statements and income statement, balance sheet, statement of the parent company financial statements and changes in equity and notes, including a has been prepared in accordance with the summary of significant accounting policies, for requirements of the Danish Financial both the Group and the parent company, as well Statements Act. We did not identify any material as the consolidated statement of cash flows misstatement in Management’s Review. (“financial statements”). Management’s responsibilities Basis for opinion for the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with Management is responsible for the preparation International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and the of consolidated financial statements and parent additional requirements applicable in Den­mark. com­pany financial statements that give a true Our responsibilities under those standards and and fair view in accordance with the Danish requirements are further described in the Auditor’s Financial Statements Act, and for such internal Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial control as management determines is necessary Statements section of our report. We are indepen­ to enable the preparation of financial statements dent of the Group in accordance with the Inter­na­ that are free from material misstatement, tional Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ whether due to fraud or error. Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and the additional requirements applicable In preparing the financial statements, managein Denmark, and we have fulfilled our other ethical ment is responsible for assessing the Group’s responsibilities in accordance with these requireand the parent company’s ability to continue as ments. We believe that the audit evidence we have a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a matters related to going concern and using the basis for our opinion. going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements unless management Statement on Management’s Review either intends to liquidate the Group or the Management is responsible for Management’s parent company or to cease operations, or has Review. Our opinion on the financial statements no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for whether due to fraud or error, design and cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the We communicate with those charged with the audit of the financial statements perform audit procedures responsive to those parent company’s ability to continue as a governance regarding, among other matters, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable risks, and obtain audit evidence that is going concern. If we conclude that a material the planned scope and timing of the audit and assurance about whether the financial statesufficient and appropriate to provide a basis uncertainty exists, we are required to draw significant audit findings, including any signifiments as a whole are free from material for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a attention in our auditor’s report to the related cant deficiencies in internal control that we misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and material misstatement resulting from fraud is disclosures in the financial statements or, if identify during our audit. to issue an auditor’s report that includes our higher than for one resulting from error as such disclosures are inadequate, to modify opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit omissions, misrepresentations, or the override audit evidence obtained up to the date of our Hellerup, 26 February 2020 conducted in accordance with ISAs and the of internal control auditor’s report. However, future events or additional requirements applicable in Denmark • Obtain an understanding of internal control conditions may cause the Group and the PricewaterhouseCoopers will always detect a material misstatement when relevant to the audit in order to design audit parent company to cease to continue as a Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or procedures that are appropriate in the going concern CVR no. 33771231 error and are considered material if, individually circumstances, but not for the purpose of • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure or in the aggregate, they could reason­­­­­expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of and contents of the financial statements, ably be expected to influence the economic the Group’s and the parent company’s internal including the disclosures, and whether the decisions of users taken on the basis of these control financial statements represent the underlying financial statements. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting transactions and events in a manner that policies used and the reasonableness of gives a true and fair view Mads Melgaard As part of an audit conducted in accordance accounting estimates and related disclosures • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence State Authorised Public Accountant with ISAs and the additional requirements made by management regarding the financial information of the mne34354 applicable in Denmark, we exercise professional • Conclude on the appropriateness of manageentities or business activities within the Group judgment and maintain professional scepticism ment’s use of the going concern basis of to express an opinion on the consolidated throughout the audit. We also: accounting in preparing the financial statefinancial statements. We are responsible for ments and, based on the audit evidence the direction, supervision and performance of obtained, whether a material uncertainty the group audit. We remain solely responsible Anders Stig Lauritsen • Identify and assess the risks of material State Authorised Public Accountant misstatement of the financial statements, exists related to events or conditions that may for our audit opinion. mne32800 Auditor’s report | 57 Independent To the stakeholders of Hempel A/S Hempel A/S (Hempel) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the Sustainability Data on pages 52-53 in the Annual Report of Hempel for limited assurance the year ended 31 December 2019 (the “Selected Information”). Our conclusion report on the Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained: • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information in Hempel’s Annual Report for the year ended Sustainability 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Accounting Principles. Data 2019 This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of our report. What we are assuring The scope of our work was limited to assurance over: • the Sustainability Data on pages 52-53 in Hempel’s Annual Report (the “Selected Information”). Professional standards applied and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks; consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our independence and quality control information allows for different, but acceptable, the preparation of the Selected Information Hellerup, 26 February 2020 We have complied with the Code of Ethics measurement techniques and can affect that is free from material misstatement, for Professional Accountants issued by the comparability between entities and over time. whether due to fraud or error; PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ethics Standards Board for • establishing objective Accounting Principles Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Accountants, which includes independence and Work performed for preparing the Selected Information; CVR no. 33771231 other ethical requirements founded on fundamenWe are required to plan and perform our work • measuring and reporting the Selected tal principles of integrity, objectivity, professional in order to consider the risk of material misstateInformation based on the Accounting competence and due care, confidentiality and ment of the Selected Information. In doing so, we: Principles; and professional behaviour. The firm applies Inter­ • conducted interviews with data owners to • the content of the Sustainability Data in national Standard on Quality Control 1 and understand the key processes and controls Hempel’s Annual Report 2019. accordingly maintains a comprehensive system for reporting site performance data; of quality control including documented policies • obtained an understanding of the key proOur responsibility and procedures regarding compliance with ethical cesses and controls for measuring, recording We are responsible for: requirements, professional standards and and reporting the Selected Information. • planning and performing the engagement to applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our • on a selective basis performed review of the obtain limited assurance about whether the work was carried out by an independent multidisSelected Information at corporate head office Selected Information has been prepared, in ciplinary team with experience in sustainability to check that data has been appropriately all material respects, in accordance with the reporting and assurance. recorded, consolidated and reported; Accounting Principles and in this context is • performed analysis of data from reporting free from material misstatement, whether Understanding reporting sites, selected on the basis of risk and due to fraud or error; Mads Melgaard and measurement methodologies materiality to the group; and • forming an independent conclusion, based State Authorised Public Accountant The Selected Information needs to be read and • considered the disclosure and presentation on the procedures we have performed and mne34354 understood together with the Accounting Principles of the Selected Information. the evidence we have obtained; and (pages 52-53) in Hempel’s Annual Report 2019, • reporting our conclusion to the Stakeholders which management of Hempel is solely responsiHempel’s responsibilities of Hempel. ble for selecting and applying. The absence of a Hempel’s management are responsible for: Anders Stig Lauritsen significant body of established practice on which • designing, implementing and maintaining State Authorised Public Accountant to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial internal controls over information relevant to mne32800 Auditor’s report | 59 Financial statements 63 Primary 69 Section 1 72 Section 2 statements Basis of preparation Results for the year 63 Income statement 69 General accounting policies 72 2.1 Revenue, segment information 64 Balance sheet 72 2.2 Employee costs 66 Statement of changes in equity 72 2.3 O ther operating income 68 Cash flow statement and expenses 73 2.4 S pecial items 73 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries 73 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities 76 Section 3 84 Section 4 88 Section 5 Operating assets Capital structure Other disclosures and liabilities and financing items 76 3.1 Intangible assets 84 4.1 S  hare capital, distribution 88  5.1 Fee to the auditors appointed 78 3.2 Property, plant and equipment to shareholders at the General Meeting 84 4.2 Bank loans, etc. 88 5.2 Adjustments  for non-cash items 80 3.3 Inventories 84 4.3 F inancial risks 88 5.3 Contingent  liabilities and 80 3.4 Prepayments other financial obligations 80 3.5 Receivables 85 4.4 D erivative financial instruments 89 5.4 E vents after the reporting period 81 3.6 P ension and similar 86 4.5 N et financials 89 5.5 R elated parties and ownership assets and obligations 86 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net 90 5.6 Investments  in subsidiaries 82 3.7 Provisions 86 4.7 A  cquisitions of enterprises 92 5.7 T he Hempel Group including 82 3.8 Deferred income foreign branches 82 3.9 Other liabilities 94 5.8 F inancial definitions Banks Nordea HSBC Group UniCredit SEB Danske Bank Jyske Bank BNP Paribas BBVA Commerzbank Income statement In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Distribution of profit 2019 2018 2019 2018 2.1 Revenue 1,534 1,346 131 123 Proposed distribution of profit: Production costs -936 -832 -60 -59 Proposed dividend 25 30 25 30 Gross profit 598 514 71 64 Reserve for development costs – – – 3 Minority interests 1 5 – – Sales and distribution costs -394 -325 -26 -17 Retained earnings 24 13 24 10 Administrative costs -113 -109 -39 -33 50 48 49 43 2.3 Other operating income 1 10 1 – Operating profit before special items 92 90 7 14 2.4 Special items – -13 – – Operating profit 92 77 7 14 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries – – 46 28 Profit before financial income and expenses 92 77 53 42 4.5 Net financials -13 -5 3 8 Profit before tax 79 72 56 50 2.6 Income tax -29 -24 -7 -7 Net profit for the year 50 48 49 43 Financial statements | 63 Balance sheet as at 31 December – assets In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Goodwill 68 76 – – Software 6 3 1 1 Software under development 6 6 6 6 Customer relationships 50 57 – – Other intangible assets 38 42 12 14 3.1 Intangible assets 168 184 19 21 Land and buildings 169 165 1 – Plant and machinery 92 90 1 1 Other fixed assets 19 21 1 1 Assets under construction 34 28 9 5 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 314 304 12 7 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries – – 399 326 Loans to Group enterprises – – 166 188 2.6 Deferred tax assets 47 51 7 10 Deposits etc. 4 19 1 1 Fixed asset investments 51 70 573 525 Total non-current assets 533 558 604 553 3.3 Inventories 234 215 5 4 3.5 Trade receivables 359 338 9 7 Receivables from Group enterprises – – 202 172 2.6 Tax receivables 8 8 – – Other receivables 45 67 24 30 3.4 Prepayments 20 17 5 3 3.5 Receivables 432 430 240 212 Cash at bank and in hand 101 85 5 – Current assets 767 730 250 216 Total assets 1,300 1,288 854 769 64 | Balance sheet as at 31 December – equity and liabilities In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 4.1 Share capital 15 15 15 15 Reserve for development costs – – 6 6 Retained earnings 403 363 424 397 Proposed dividend for the year 25 30 25 30 Shareholders in Hempel A/S’ share of equity 443 408 470 448 Minority interests 49 61 – – Total equity 492 469 470 448 2.6 Deferred tax liabilities 52 55 – – 3.6 Pension obligations and similar obligations 22 21 – 1 3.7 Other provisions 40 84 8 2 Provisions 114 160 8 3 4.2 Bank loans etc. 20 30 – – 4.4 Other long-term payables 21 40 – – Long-term debt 41 70 – – 4.6 Overdraft facilities 26 57 23 36 4.2 Short-term part of bank loans etc. 14 22 – 15 3.8 Deferred income 6 7 – – Trade payables 261 243 12 10 Payables to Group enterprises 127 73 303 228 2.6 Tax liabilities 10 7 – – 3.9 Other liabilities 209 180 38 29 Total current liabilities 653 589 376 318 Total liabilities 808 819 384 321 Total equity and liabilities 1,300 1,288 854 769 Financial statements | 65 Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December In EUR million Group Shareholders Retained Proposed in Hempel A/S’ Note Share capital earnings dividend share of equity Minority interest Total equity Equity Equity at 1 January 2018 15 399 28 442 52 494 Net profit for the year – 43 – 43 5 48 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -9 – -9 2 -7 Dividend distributed – – -28 -28 -11 -39 Proposed dividend – -30 30 – – – Acquisition of enterprises – – – – 13 13 Written put option, minorities – -39 – -39 – -39 Fair value adjustment, put option – -1 – -1 – -1 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2018 15 363 30 408 61 469 Net profit for the year – 49 – 49 1 50 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – 6 – 6 – 6 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – -3 – -3 – -3 Dividend distributed – – -30 -30 -8 -38 Proposed dividend – -25 25 – – – Transactions with minorities – -6 – -6 -3 -9 Acquisition of enterprises – – – – -2 -2 Fair value adjustment, put option – 19 – 19 – 19 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2019 15 403 25 443 49 492 66 | In EUR million Parent company Reserve for development Retained Proposed Note Share capital costs earnings dividend Total Equity Equity at 1 January 2018 15 3 396 28 442 Net profit for the year – 3 40 – 43 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – – -9 – -9 Dividend distributed – – – -28 -28 Proposed dividend – – -30 30 – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2018 15 6 397 30 448 Net profit for the year – – 49 – 49 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – – 6 – 6 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – -3 – -3 Dividend distributed – – – -30 -30 Proposed dividend – – -25 25 – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2019 15 6 424 25 470 Financial statements | 67 Cash flow statement In EUR million Group In EUR million Group Note 2019 2018 Note 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Sale of property, plant and equipment 3 2 Operating profit 92 77 Sale of intangible assets 14 – 5.2 Adjustment for non-cash items 10 56 Change in deposits, net 15 -13 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial items, Received from sale of associate – 3 tax and changes in working capital 102 133 Total cash flows from investing activities -20 -63 Change in receivables -26 2 Free cash flow 51 23 Change in inventories -16 -8 Cash flows from financing activities Change in trade payables 46 -5 Change in bank and other borrowings etc. 37 -11 Total change in working capital 4 -11 Change in minority shares (dividend distributed) -8 -20 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial items and tax 106 122 Dividend distributed to shareholders -30 -28 Income tax paid -23 -26 Capital losses and gains, net -2 3 Interest income and expenses paid, net -12 -10 Total cash flows from financing activities -3 -56 Total cash flows from operating activities 71 86 Net cash flow 48 -33 Cash flows from investing activities 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, beginning of year 28 62 4.7 Acquisition of enterprises -2 -19 Exchange adjustment -1 -1 3.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment -43 -32 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, end of year 75 28 3.1 Purchase of intangible assets -7 -4 68 | Section 1 Basis of preparation 1.1 General accounting policies General The Annual Report of Hempel A/S for 2019 has been prepared in accordance with the provisions Assets are recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and ies in which the parent company directly or indirectly holds more than 50 per cent of the votes or in which the parent company, through of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregn­ the value of the asset can be measured reliably. share ownership or otherwise, exercises control. All entities in the Hempel Group follow the skabs­loven) applying to large enterprises of Enterprises in which the Group holds between same Group accounting policies. This reporting class C. The Annual Report for 2019 Liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the votes and is presented in EUR millions. The accounting when it is probable that future economic exercises significant influence but not control are section gives a summary of the significant policies applied remain unchanged from benefits will flow out of the Group and the value classified as associates. accounting policies. previous years. of the liability can be measured reliably. Assets and liabilities are initially measured at cost. On consolidation, items of a uniform nature are In the Annual Report, the notes are grouped Subsequently, assets and liabilities are meascombined. Elimination is made of intercompany in sections and include the relevant accounting ured as described in individual sections. income and expenses, shareholdings, dividends policies. and accounts as well as of realised and Recognition and measurement take into account unrealised profits and losses on transactions Recognition and measurement predictable losses and risks occurring before the between the consolidated enterprises. Revenues are recognised in the income statepresentation of the Annual Report that confirm ment as earned. Furthermore, value adjustments or invalidate affairs and conditions existing at The parent company’s investments in the of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair the balance sheet date. 2018 total assets and consolidated subsidiaries are set off against the value or amortised costs are recognised. total liabilities have been restated, and minor parent company’s share of the net asset value variances to the 2018 Annual Report occur. of subsidiaries stated at the time of Moreover, all expenses incurred to achieve consolidation. the earnings for the year are recognised in Euro is used as the presentation currency. the income statement, including depreciation, All other currencies are regarded as foreign Minority interests amortisation, impairment losses and provisions currencies. On statement of Group results and Group equity, as well as reversals due to changed accounting the shares of results and equity of subsidiaries estimates of amounts that were previously Basis of consolidation attributable to minority interests are recognised recognised in the income statement. The consolidated financial statements comprise as separate items in the distribution of profits the parent company, Hempel A/S, and subsidiarand the equity. Minority interests are recognised Financial statements | 69 on the basis of a remeasurement of acquired at the dates of payment are recognised in financial assets and liabilities to fair value at the time of income and expenses in the income statement. acquisition of subsidiaries. Where foreign exchange transactions are considered hedging of future cash flows, the value The measurement is prorated according to the adjustments are recognised directly in equity. minority’s share and goodwill related to minority interests is not recognised. Receivables, payables and other monetary items in foreign currencies that have not been settled On subsequent changes to minority interests, at the balance sheet date are translated at the the changed share is included in results as of exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Any the date of change. differences between the exchange rates at the balance sheet date and the transaction date Foreign currency translation rates are recognised in financial income and Functional and presentation currency expenses in the income statement. Items included in the financial statements of each of Hempel’s entities are measured using Fixed assets acquired in foreign currencies are the cur­rency of the primary economic environmeasured at the transaction date rates. ment in which the entity operates (functional currency). Transactions denominated in other Translation of Group companies currencies than the functional currency are Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and considered transactions denominated in foreign associates are translated into euros at currencies. The consolidated financial statethe exchange rates prevailing at the end of the ments are presented in euro. reporting period for balance sheet items, and at average exchange rates for income statement Translation of transactions and balances items, with the exception of exchange rate Transactions in foreign currencies are translated adjustments of investments in subsidiaries and at the exchange rates at the dates of transaction. associates arising from: Gains and losses arising due to differences • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and between the transaction date rates and the rates associates’ net assets at the beginning of the 70 | year at the exchange rates at the end of the Sales and distribution costs Cash flows from operating activities Separate presentation of special items reporting period Sales and distribution expenses comprise costs Cash flows from operating activities are With reference to §11(3) of the Danish Financial • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and incurred to distribute sales and for sales calculated as the net profit/loss for the year Statements Act, the Hempel Group has departed associates’ income statement from average campaigns, including costs for sales and adjusted for changes in working capital, interest from the presentation requirements in the Act. It exchange rates to exchange rates at the end distribution staff, advertising costs and depreciand tax paid and non-cash operating items, such is management’s assessment that a separate of the reporting period ation of sales equipment. as depreciation, amortisation and impairment presentation of certain costs provides a true and • the translation of intra-Group receivables that losses and provisions. Working capital comfair view of the financial statements. The Hempel are considered to be an addition to net Administrative costs prises current assets less short-term debt Group has therefore presented costs related to investments in subsidiaries Administrative costs comprise costs incurred for excluding items included in cash and cash identified and potential irregularities within management and administration of the Group, equivalents. Hempel’s subsidiaries in certain countries as These specific exchange rate adjustments are including costs for administrative staff and ‘Special items’ in the income statement. Costs recognised directly in equity. manage­ment as well as office costs and Cash flows from investing activities include penalties, costs associated with investigadepreciation and write-downs for bad debt Cash flows from investing activities comprise tions performed and severance payments. Classification of operating expenses in the losses. Amortisation of goodwill, customer cash flows from acquisitions and disposals of Management has found it necessary to present income statement relationships and brands are recognised in intangible assets, property, plant and equipthese costs separately as they are material to the Production costs administrative costs. ment, fixed asset investments, as well as Group, non-recurring and extraordinary in terms of Production costs comprise costs incurred to acquistions of enterprises. Hempel’s continuing global business. It is the achieve revenue for the year. Costs comprise Cash flow statement view of management that a note disclosure only is raw materials, consumables, direct labour costs The cash flow statement is presented using the Cash flows from financing activities not sufficient to ensure that the performance of and indirect production costs such as mainteindirect method based on the operating profit Cash flows from financing activities comprise the continuing business is understood correctly nance and depreciation, etc., as well as (loss). The cash flow statement for the Group cash flows from the raising and repayment of by the reader of the financial statements. operation, administration and management of shows the cash flows for the year broken down principal long-term debt as well as payments to Individual line items included in ‘Operating profit’ factories. by operating, investing and financing activities, and from shareholders. are impacted by a total of EUR 0 million (2018: changes for the year in cash and cash EUR 13 million). However, the change in presProduction costs also include research and equivalents as well as cash and cash equivaCash and cash equivalents entation does not impact operating profit after development costs that do not qualify for lents for the Group at the beginning and end of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and special items, profit after tax, total assets, total capitalisation as well as amortisation of the year. The cash flow statement cannot be short-term marketable securities with a term of equity or cash flow. capitalised development costs. Also included are immediately derived from the published three months or less and are subject to an inventory write-downs. financial records. insignificant risk of change in value. Financial statements | 71 Section 2 Results for the year 2.1 Revenue, segment information 2.2 Employee costs 2.3 Other operating income and expenses Accounting policies Accounting policies Revenue from the sale of goods for resale and Wages, salaries, social security contributions, rendered by employees of Hempel. Where Accounting policies finished goods is recognised in the income annual leave and sick leave, bonuses and Hempel provides long-term employee benefits, Other operating income and other operating statement when delivery and transfer of risk has non-monetary benefits are recognised in the the costs are accrued to match the rendering of expenses comprise items of a secondary nature been made before year end. year in which the associated services are the services by the employees concerned. to the core activities of the enterprise, including gains and losses on the sale of intangible assets Revenue is recognised exclusive of VAT and net and property, plant and equipment. of discounts relating to sales. Segments Reporting of operating segments is based on In EUR million Group Parent company internal reporting to regional and Group In EUR million Group Parent company management. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Employee costs Other Hempel operates in three geographical regions: operating Directors’ fees 1 1 1 1 income 1 10 1 – EMEA (Europe including Russia, the Middle East and Africa), Asia-Pacific and Americas. Sales are Remuneration of the Executive Board 1) 5 5 5 5 1 10 1 – attributed to geographical regions according to Wages and salaries etc. 314 262 36 34 2018: Other operating income comprises sale of land and the location of the customer.1) insurance recoverable. Pension contributions 14 14 3 3 334 282 45 43 In EUR million Group Parent company Average number of employees 6,219 5,882 321 307 2019 2018 2019 2018 Employee costs have been recognised in the income statement as follows: EMEA 990 824 131 123 Production costs 101 86 14 17 Asia-Pacific 351 340 – – Selling and distribution expenses 178 149 12 8 Americas 193 182 – – Administrative expenses 55 47 19 18 1,534 1,346 131 123 334 282 45 43 1) F  or competitive reasons, a breakdown of revenue on activities has been left out (in accordance with §96 of the 1) Executive Board registered with the Danish Business Authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen). Danish Financial Statements Act). As of 6 April 2018, untill 30 June 2019, the Executive board had 5 members. 72 | 2.4 Special items 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities Special items comprise costs related to Accounting policies Income tax it is probable that sufficient taxable income will penalties, costs associated with investigations The items ‘Income from investments in Accounting policies be available in the future against which the performed and severance payments. subsidiaries’ in the income statement include Income tax for the year consists of current tax for temporary differences and unused tax losses the proportionate share of the profit for the year the year and deferred tax for the year. The tax can be utilised. Management has considered less goodwill amortisation. attributable to the profit for the year is recognised future taxable income when assessing whether in the income statement, whereas the tax deferred income tax assets should be recogattributable to equity transactions is recognised nised. In the course of conducting business directly in equity. The company is jointly taxed with globally, transfer pricing disputes with tax wholly owned Danish subsidiaries. The tax effect authorities may occur, and management’s In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Parent company of the joint taxation is allocated to Danish judgment is applied to assess the possible enterprises in proportion to their taxable incomes. outcome of such disputes. Hempel believes that 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 the provision made for uncertain tax positions AdministraIncome from investments Hempel is subject to income taxes around the not yet settled with local tax authorities is tive costs – -13 – – in subsidiaries world. Significant judgment is required in adequate. However, the actual obligation may Operating Profit before tax 77 56 determining the worldwide accrual for income deviate and is dependent on the result of profit – -13 – – taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, litigations and settlements with the relevant tax Amortisation of goodwill -11 -11 Profit and provision for uncertain tax positions. authorities. before tax – -13 – – Tax for the year -20 -17 Hempel recognises deferred income tax assets if Income tax – – – – Profit after tax 46 28 Net profit for the year – -13 – – Financial statements | 73 In EUR million Group Parent company Group Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accounting policies Hempel Group Effective tax rate of the Group 36.7% 33.3% Deferred income tax is measured using the balance sheet liability method in respect of Profit before tax 79 72 Reconciliation of tax rate: temporary differences arising between the tax 79 72 Danish tax rate 22% 22.0% bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying Higher/(lower) tax rates of foreign subsidiaries -6.2% -5.5% amounts for financial reporting purposes on the Income tax on profit for the year: basis of the intended use of the asset and Total tax -29 -24 -27 -24 Weighted tax rate of the Group 15.8% 16.5% settlement of the liability, respectively. Deferred tax assets, including the tax base of tax loss Tax in respect of subsidiaries – – 20 17 Permanent differences 2.3% -0.1% carry forwards, are measured at the value at -29 -24 -7 -7 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 19.5% 8.8% which the asset is expected to be realised, Recognised deferred tax assets related to prior years -4.5% -0.9% either by elimination in tax on future earnings or Current tax for the year -25 -22 -5 -3 by set off against deferred tax liabilities within Adjustments in respect of previous years -0.7% -0.8% Deferred tax for the year -6 2 -3 -4 the same legal tax entity. Other adjustments -1.2% 2.6% Adjustment in respect of previous years 2 -4 1 – Withholding taxes etc. 5.5% 2.1% Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax Income tax -29 -24 -7 -7 Effective tax rate of the Group before special items 36.7% 28.2% rules and tax rates that will be effective under the legislation at the balance sheet date when Adjustment related to special items – 5.1% the deferred tax is expected to crystallise as Effective tax rate of the Group 36.7% 33.3% current tax. Any changes in deferred tax due to changes to tax rates are recognised in the income statement. 74 | In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deferred tax (net): The net value The net value is recognised is recognised Deferred tax, beginning of year -4 – 10 14 in the balance in the balance sheet as sheet as Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 1 -1 – – follows: follows: Acquisition of enterprises 2 -1 – – Deferred tax Current tax Deferred tax for the year -6 2 -3 -4 assets 47 51 7 10 assets 8 8 – – Adjustment in respect of previous years 2 -4 – – Deferred tax Current tax liabilities -52 -55 – – liabilities -10 -7 – – Change in tax rate – – – – -5 -4 7 10 -2 1 – – Deferred tax (net), end of year -5 -4 7 10 In EUR million Group Parent company Current tax receivables and liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accounting policies Current tax liabilities and receivables are Deferred tax (net) relates to the following items: recognised in the balance sheet as the Intangible assets 1 4 4 7 expected taxable income for the year adjusted Property, plant and equipment 1 -1 2 2 for tax on taxable incomes for prior years and Inventories 3 2 – – tax paid on account. Trade receivables 2 5 – – Provisions and other payables -33 -26 1 1 Tax losses 21 12 – – -5 -4 7 10 At 31 December 2019, the Group has recogThe Group has non-recognised tax losses of EUR nised a deferred tax asset comprising tax losses 20 million (2018: EUR 18 million). Management carried forward of EUR 21 million (2018: EUR believes that the unutilised tax losses are not 12 million). Management believes it is likely that likely to be utilised in the future taxable income the unutilised tax losses can be utilised within within the next years. the next years. Financial statements | 75 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets In EUR million Group Accounting policies An amount corresponding to development costs Goodwill acquired is measured at cost less capitalised as intangible assets is transferred to Software Other under Customer intangible accumulated amortisations. Goodwill is ‘Reserve for development cost’ under equity (in Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful the parent company). The reserve is reduced Intangible assets life on the basis of management experience with amortisation of the intangible assets. within the individual areas. The amortisation Costs at 1 January 2019 159 37 6 132 80 414 period is 2-20 years, the longest period Customer relations are measured at cost less Exchange adjustment applicable to acquired enterprises with a strong accumulated amortisation and impairment at year-end rate 4 – – 3 2 9 market position and a long-term earnings profile. losses. The period of amortisation is 2-17 years. Acquisition of enterprises 1 – – – – 1 Additions for the year – 6 – – 1 7 Development projects concerning products, Other intangible assets are measured at cost Disposals for the year – – – – – – processes and software that are clearly defined less accumulated amortisation and impairment and identifiable and in respect of which losses. The assets are amortised on a straightCosts at 31 December 2019 164 43 6 135 83 431 technical feasibility, sufficient resources and a line basis over their estimated useful lives. The potential future market or development opportuamortisation period is 2-20 years. Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2019 83 34 – 75 38 230 nity in the enterprise can be demonstrated, and where it is the intention to manufacture, market Impairment of intangible assets Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 2 – – 2 1 5 or use the product or process in question, are The carrying amounts of intangible assets are recognised as intangible assets. The costs reviewed on an annual basis to determine Amortisation for the year 11 3 – 8 6 28 comprise direct wages, salaries, materials and whether there is any indication of impairment Accumulated amortisation other direct and indirect costs attributable to the other than that expressed by amortisation. at 31 December 2019 96 37 – 85 45 263 development project. Carrying amount If so, the asset is written down to its lower at 31 December 2019 68 6 6 50 38 168 Upon completion of the development project, recoverable amount. Other intangible assets comprise brands, formulas, non-compete agreements and lease rights. costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. The amortisation period is 3-10 years. 76 | In EUR million Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company Software Other 2019 2018 2019 2018 under Customer intangible Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total Amortisation and impairment are specified as follows: Intangible assets Production costs 1 1 – – Costs at 1 January 2019 – 7 6 – 30 43 Sales and distribution costs 1 1 1 – Additions for the year – 1 – – 1 2 Administrative costs 26 24 3 4 Disposals for the year – – – – – – 28 26 4 4 Costs at 31 December 2019 – 8 6 – 31 45 Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2019 – 6 – – 16 22 Amortisation for the year – 1 – – 3 4 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2019 – 7 – – 19 26 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 – 1 6 – 12 19 Other intangible assets mainly comprise brands and formulas. Financial statements | 77 3.2 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured basis over the expected useful lives of the at cost less accumulated depreciation and less assets, which are: any accumulated impairment losses. Buildings (max.)....................................... 50 years Costs comprise the cost of acquisition and Laboratory equipment............................. 10 years expenses directly related to the acquisition up Plant and machinery............................... 10 years until the time when the asset is ready for use. In Other fixtures and fittings, the case of assets of own construction, costs tools and equipment............................3-10 years comprise direct and indirect expenses for labour, materials, components and sub-suppliers. Leasehold improvements are included in other operating equipment and are recognised at cost Interest expenses on loans raised directly for and depreciated over the term of the lease; financing the construction of property, plant and however, not exceeding 10 years. equipment are recognised in costs over the period of construction. All indirectly attributable borrowing The assets’ residual values and useful lives are expenses are recognised in the income statement. reviewed annually. If residual value exceeds the carrying amount, depreciation is discontinued. Leases in terms of which the Group assumes If the depreciation period or the residual values substantially all the risks and rewards of ownerare changed, the depreciation effect is ship (finance leases) are recognised in the recognised prospectively as a change in balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the accounting estimates. leased asset and the net present value of the lease payments computed by applying the interest Impairment of fixed assets rate implicit in the lease or an approximated value The carrying amounts of property, plant and as the discount rate. Assets acquired under equipment are reviewed on an annual basis to finance leases are depreciated and written down determine whether there is any indication of for impairment under the same policy as deterimpairment other than that expressed by mined for the other fixed assets of the Group. amortisation and depreciation. Depreciation based on costs reduced by any If so, the asset is written down to its lower residual value is calculated on a straight-line recoverable amount. 78 | In EUR million Group In EUR million Parent company Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets under Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets under buildings machinery assets construction Total buildings machinery assets construction Total Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Costs at 1 January 2019 242 244 92 28 606 Costs at 1 January 2019 – 3 6 5 14 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 5 6 3 – 14 Additions for the year – – – 5 5 Additions for the year 6 14 6 17 43 Transfers 1 – – -1 – Transfers 3 6 – -9 – Costs at 31 December 2019 1 3 6 9 19 Disposals for the year – -4 -3 -2 -9 Accumulated depreciations Costs at 31 December 2019 256 266 98 34 654 at 1 January 2019 – 2 5 – 7 Exchange adjustment Accumulated depreciations at year-end rate – – -1 – -1 at 1 January 2019 77 154 71 – 302 Depreciation for the year – – 1 – 1 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 1 4 3 – 8 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2019 – 2 5 – 7 Depreciation for the year 9 20 8 – 37 Carrying amount Reversal of depreciation at 31 December 2019 1 1 1 9 12 of assets sold – -4 -3 – -7 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2019 87 174 79 – 340 In EUR million Group Parent company Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 169 92 19 34 314 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciation and impairment are specified as follows: Including leased assets of 3 – – – 3 Production costs 23 18 – – Including interest expenses of 1 – – – 1 Sales and distribution costs 9 7 – – Administrative costs 5 4 1 1 37 29 1 1 Financial statements | 79 3.3 Inventories 3.4 Prepayments Accounting policies Accounting policies Inventories are measured at cost in accordance Prepayments comprise prepaid expenses mainly with the FIFO principle. relating to rent, licenses and insurance premiums. The cost of goods for resale, raw materials and consumables equals landed cost. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises the cost of raw materials, consumables and direct labour with the addition of 3.5 Receivables indirect production costs. Indirect production costs comprise the cost of indirect materials and Accounting policies labour as well as maintenance and depreciation Receivables are measured in the balance sheet of the machinery, factory buildings and equipat the lower of amortised cost and net realisable ment used in the manufacturing process as well value, which corresponds to nominal value less as the cost of factory administration and provisions for bad debts. Provisions for bad management. debts are determined on the basis of an individual assessment of each receivable and, in Where the net realisable value is lower than respect of trade receivables, a general provision cost, inventories are written down to this lower is also made based on the company’s experivalue. The net realisable value is calculated as ence from previous years. the sales amount less costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale. Receivables are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost, which substantially corresponds to nominal value. Provisions for estiIn EUR million Group Parent company mated bad debts are made. 2019 2018 2019 2018 Raw In EUR million Group Parent company materials and consumables 73 70 4 4 2019 2018 2019 2018 Work in Receivables 432 430 240 212 progress 7 6 – – of which due Finished more than goods 154 139 1 – one year from balance sheet Inventories 234 215 5 4 date 1 2 – – 80 | 3.6 Pension and similar assets and obligations Accounting policies In EUR million Group Parent company Hempel operates a number of defined contribu2019 2018 2019 2018 tion plans throughout the world. Hempel’s Pension and similar obligations comprise: contributions to the defined contribution plans are recognised in the income statement in the Pension and similar obligations 56 52 – 1 year to which they relate. In a few countries, Fair value of assets related to the plans -34 -31 – – Hempel also operates defined benefit plans. Pension obligations, net 22 21 – 1 The costs for the year for defined benefit plans are determined using the projected unit credit Recognition in the balance sheet: method. This reflects services rendered by employees to the valuation dates and is based Liabilities 22 21 – 1 on actuarial assumptions primarily regarding Pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet, net 22 21 – 1 discount rates used in determining the present value of benefits and projected rates of Defined benefit plans remuneration growth. Discount rates are based Specification of plan assets: on the market yields of high-rated corporate Shares and properties 13% 14% – – bonds in the country concerned. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustFixed interest current asset investments 84% 85% – – ments and changes in actuarial assumptions Cash at bank and in hand 3% 1% – – are recognised directly in equity in the period in Total 100% 100% – – which they arise. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income stateWeighted average assumptions: ment. Pension assets are only recognised to Discount rate 1.3% 2.1% 0.5% 2.0% the extent that Hempel is able to derive future economic benefits such as refunds from the General wage inflation 2.1% 2.2% – – plan or reductions of future contributions. General price inflation 1.4% 1.6% – – The net obligation recognised in the balance sheet is reported as non-current liabilities. Financial statements | 81 3.7 Provisions 3.8 Deferred income Accounting policies Accounting policies Provisions are recognised when – in consefulfil the obligations at the balance sheet date. Deferred income comprises prepayments from quence of an event having occurred before or on The costs required to settle the liability are customers where the related revenue cannot be the balance sheet date – the Group has a legal discounted if the effect is material to the recognised in the income statement until the or constructive obligation and it is probable that measurement of the liability. next financial year. there may be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits to settle the obligation. Provisions for liabilities relating to environmental obligations, warranty commitments and other Provisions for environmental, warranty and provisions include factual, legal and estimated restructuring obligations as well as other liabilities as a result of events occurring before obligations are recognised and measured based on a best estimate of the expenses necessary to the end of the financial year. Estimates are based on management’s judgment. 3.9 Other liabilities Accounting policies Other liabilities are measured at amortised cost, In EUR million Group substantially corresponding to nominal value. Environmental Warranty Other 2019 2018 Other liabilities comprise employee costs obligations commitments provisions Total Total payable, VAT and duties payable, accruals, other Total provisions, beginning of year 21 9 54 84 69 payables and fair values of derivative financial Exchange adjustment instruments. at year-end rate – – – – 1 Acquisition of enterprises – – 6 6 11 Additions for the year 1 9 2 12 16 Reversed – – -6 -6 -4 Consumed -7 -5 -44 -56 -9 Total provisions, end of year 15 13 12 40 84 Maturities are expected to be: Within 1 year 1 9 2 12 45 Between 1 and 5 years 7 4 8 19 20 After 5 years 7 – 2 9 19 15 13 12 40 84 82 | Section 4 Capital structure and financing items 4.1 Share capital, distribution to shareholders 4.2 Bank loans, etc. 4.3 Financial risks Accounting policies Accounting policies In EUR million Group Parent company Due to its operations, investments and financing, Dividend distribution proposed by management Fixed-interest loans, such as mortgage loans and 2019 2018 2019 2018 the Group is exposed to commercial risks as well for the year is disclosed as a separate equity item. loans from credit institutions, are recognised as financial risks related to changes in exchange Longinitially at the proceeds received net of transacterm bank rates and interest rates. Hempel has centralised The share capital amounts to DKK 115 million tion expenses incurred. Subsequently, the loans borrowings handling of these risks, except for commercial (EUR 15 million) comprising 110 A shares of are measured at amortised cost; the difference etc. including credit risk, which is managed by the operating short-term DKK 1 million each, one A share of DKK between the proceeds and the nominal value is part: units across the world. The risks are managed in 900,000, four B shares of DKK 1 million each recognised as an interest expense in the income accordance with the policies and guidelines laid Due within 1 and four B shares of DKK 25,000 each. B statement over the loan period. year 14 22 – 15 out by the Board of Directors. It is the Group’s shareholders enjoy special dividend rights. policy not to speculate actively in financial risks. Due within 1 Mortgage loans are measured at amortised to 5 years 19 29 – – There have been no changes to the share capital cost, which for cash loans corresponds to the The Group has no material risks relating to a Due after 5 in the past five years. remaining loan. Amortised cost of debenture years 1 1 – – single customer or business partner. It is the loans corresponds to the remaining loan Group’s credit policy to rate major customers and 34 52 – 15 calculated as the underlying cash value of the other business partners on a current basis. Bank In EUR million Parent company loan at the date of raising the loan adjusted for Acceptance Bills are used as a financial instrudepreciation of the price adjustment of the loan ment to further limit the risk of credit losses. Distribution of profit 2019 2018 made over the term of the loan at the date of Proposed distribution of profit: raising the loan. To some extent, the Group’s income and expenses Proposed dividend 25 30 in foreign currencies net out and create a natural Reserve for net revaluation hedge of the Group’s profitability margin. Hempel under the equity method – – hedges short-term transactional exposure in the Reserve for development major currencies using financial instruments. FX costs – 3 hedge contracts are predominantly entered into in Retained earnings 24 10 order to mitigate accounting and settlement risks from internal transactions between subsidiaries 49 43 and the parent company. The Hempel Group currently has a low level of interest-­bearing debt and is therefore not materially exposed to interest rate risks. 84 | 4.4 Derivative financial instruments Currency risks Derivative financial instruments are initially FX forward contracts Open foreign currency hedges at 31 December recognised at fair value on the acquisition date In EUR million 2019 entered into in order to hedge future and subsequently remeasured at their fair value Contract amount based on purchases and sales as well as receivables and at the reporting date. Positive and negative fair exercise price 1) Fair value Term to maturity (months) payables in foreign currencies are specified as values of derivative financial instruments are AUD -1.9 – 1 follows: recognised as ‘Other receivables’ and ‘Other BRL -0.9 – 3 payables’, respectively. Fair values of derivate Bank borrowings of EUR 34 million comprise of financial instruments are computed on the basis CAD 2.8 – 1 loans denominated in various currencies, EUR of market data and generally accepted valuation CLP -1.7 -0.1 3 13 million, KWD 3 million (EUR 9 million), SAR methods. Changes in the fair values of derivative CZK 3.0 – 1 38 million (EUR 9 million) and other currencies financial instruments are recognised in the amounting to EUR 3 million. income state­ment under financial items unless GBP -23.7 -0.2 1 the derivative financial instrument is designated HKD 112.3 -1.2 1 Interest rate risks and qualifies as a cash flow hedge. HRK 0.4 – 1 The weighted average effective interest rates as HUF -1.3 – 1 at the balance sheet date were as follows: Financial liabilities Liabilities concerning minorities’ put options are IDR -3.8 -0.1 3 initially recognised at fair value directly in equity KRW -5.2 -0.1 3 of the consolidated Group. Fair value is measNOK 0.5 – 1 ured at the present value of the exercise price of PLN -25.7 -0.2 1 the option. Subsequent fair value adjustments Group Parent company are recognised directly in equity. SEK -0.7 – 1 2019 2018 2019 2018 SGD -6.2 – 1 Bank USD -37.3 0.8 1 borrowings ZAR -3.8 -0.1 1 etc. 3.5% 2.7% – – -1.2 1) Positive principal amounts equal a purchase of the currency in question and negative amounts equal a sale. Financial statements | 85 4.5 Net financials 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net 4.7 Acquisitions of enterprises Accounting policies Accounting policies Accounting policies values. If identifiable assets, liabilities and Financial income and expenses comprise Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at Enterprises acquired during the year are recogcontingent liabilities are subsequently determined interest income and expenses, gains and losses bank and in hand offset by overdraft facilities. nised in the consolidated financial ­statements to have a different fair value at the acquisition on receivables, payables and transactions from the date of acquisition. The acquisition date date from that first assumed, goodwill is adjusted denominated in foreign currencies. is the date on which the parent company effecup until 12 months after the acquisition. The tively obtains control of the acquired enterprise. effect of the adjustments are recognised in the opening balance of equity and comparative For acquisitions of new enterprises where figures are restated. control is obtained by the parent company, the acquisition method is used. The identifiable In EUR million Group assets and liabilities are measured at fair value In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group at the acquisition date. Identifiable intangible 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 assets are recognised if they are separable or Balance sheet items of External Cash at bank and in hand, arise from a contractual right. Deferred tax on acquired enterprises: interest beginning of year 85 111 revaluations is recognised. income 1 1 – 1 Intangible assets – 19 Overdraft facilities, Interest beginning of year -57 -49 Property, plant and The difference between the costs of the equipment – 53 income from enterprise and the net asset value is recognised subsidiaries – – 10 9 28 62 Inventories -1 30 in the balance sheet as goodwill, which is External amortised in the income statement on a Receivables – 50 interest Cash, end of year 101 85 expenses -11 -11 -5 -3 straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. Cash and cash Overdraft facilities, end of year -26 -57 equivalents – 11 Interest paid to Group The purchase consideration of an enterprise is Provisions -6 -10 75 28 enterprises -2 -1 -1 -1 the fair value of the agreed payment in the form Deferred tax 2 -1 Realised and of assets transferred, liabilities assumed and unrealised equity instruments issued to the seller. Bank loans etc. – -53 exchange gains/losses, Contingent considerations depending on future Trade payables – -33 net -1 6 -1 2 events or the performance of contractual Other liabilities – -30 -13 -5 3 8 obligations are also recognised at fair value at Net assets acquired -5 36 the date of acquisition. Fair value changes in contingent considerations are recognised in the Minorities 35% 2 -13 income statement when incurred. Goodwill 1 11 Transaction costs are recognised in the income Consideration -2 34 statement when incurred. Cash acquired – -11 If uncertainty regarding the identification and Consideration payable 4 -4 measurement of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exist at the acquisition date, Cash consideration 2 19 initial recognition is done based on preliminary 2019 relates to adjustments of acquisitions from 2018. 86 | Section 5 Other disclosures 5.1 Fee to the auditors appointed at the General Meeting 5.2 Adjustments for non-cash items 5.3 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations In EUR million 2019 Group 2018 Parent company 2019 2018 Rental and lease In EUR million Group Parent company For the purpose of presenting the statement of The operating lease commitments are related to obligations: 2019 2018 2019 2018 cash flows, non-cash items with effect on the non-­cancellable operating leases primarily Due within income statement must be reversed to identify the related to premises, company cars and office 1 year from Audit fee 1 1 – – actual cash flow effect from the income statement. equipment. the balance sheet date 17 17 2 2 Tax advice 1 1 – – The adjustments are specified as follows: Payments made under operating leases are Due within Other fees – – – – 1 to 5 years recognised in the income statement on a from the 2 2 – – In EUR million Group straight-line basis over the lease term. balance sheet date 39 38 6 7 2019 2018 Other guarantees primarily relate to bid and Due more Amortisation, depreciation than 5 years performance bonds. from the and impairment, including goodwill 65 55 balance sheet date 13 9 – 1 Provisions -52 2 69 64 8 10 Exchange rate adjustment, operating profit -2 1 Guarantees: Gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets -1 -2 For local loans and bank 10 56 credits to subsidiaries 1) 128 118 Other guarantees 6 5 – – 6 5 128 118 1) P arent company guarantees for unutilised local loans and bank credits to subsidiaries. The guarantees amount to EUR 74 million (2018: EUR 53 million). 88 | Other contingent liabilities: Hempel is, through its ongoing business, involved in product liability claims and disputes 5.4 Events after the reporting period 5.5 Related parties and ownership in connection with the Group’s operational activities. Provisions have been made to cover No events have occurred after the balance Related parties and ownership Basis the expected outcome of disputes in cases sheet date that could have a material impact on Controlling influence where negative outcomes are likely and reliable the company’s financial result or equity. estimates can be made. In assessing the size of Hempel Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Ultimate parent company the provisions, expected insurance coverage is Hempel Invest A/S, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Majority shareholder (100%) considered separately. Hempel acknowledges the uncertainty of the disputes, but believes the Members of the Executive Management Board and Board of Directors of cases will be resolved without significant impact Hempel A/S as well as the Board of Directors of the Hempel Foundation and on the Group’s financial position. Hempel Invest A/S are also regarded as related parties. The members of the Boards of Directors of the Hempel Foundation and Hempel Invest A/S coincide. Hempel is jointly taxed with a number of Danish Other related parties companies in the Hempel Foundation Group. The Group’s Danish enterprises are jointly and Hempel’s Employee Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party severally liable for Danish taxes at source and Hempel’s Cultural Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party income taxes. Brænderupvænge ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Keldskov ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Hempel’s Employee Foundation of 2017, Lundtoftegårdsvej 91, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby Related party Innovation S E ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Frontier Innovation ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Transactions All related-party transactions were carried out at arm’s length Financial statements | 89 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries Accounting policies In EUR million Parent company Investments in subsidiaries are recognised and 2019 2018 measured under the equity method. This implies that the investments are measured in Investments in subsidiaries the balance sheet at the proportionate Costs, beginning of year 371 354 ownership share of the net asset value of the Additions for the year 9 17 enterprises with deduction or addition of shares of unrealised intercompany profits and losses. Costs, end of year 380 371 The equity method is applied as a method of Net revaluations, beginning of year -52 -30 measurement. Exchange adjustment at year-end rate 5 -9 Contributions 27 – The total net revaluation of investments in Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -3 – subsidiaries is transferred upon distribution of profit to ‘Reserve for net revaluation under the Profit before tax 77 56 equity method’ under equity. The reserve is Amortisation of goodwill -11 -11 reduced by dividend distributed to the parent Tax for the year -20 -17 company and adjusted for other equity movements in subsidiaries. Dividend received -26 -41 Reversed – – With reference to the accounting treatment of Net revaluations, end of year -3 -52 liabilities concerning minorities’ put options Carrying amount, end of year 377 319 described in section 4.4, these are recognised directly in equity of the consolidated Group. As Recognised in the balance sheet as follows: this liability lies within a subsidiary, the liability is not presented in the parent company and Subsidiaries with negative equity -22 -7 hence not presented as such nor directly Investments in subsidiaries 399 326 recognised against the equity of the parent 377 319 company. The value of the liability will cause a difference between the Group’s share of Subsidiaries with negative equity are recognised in the equity and the equity of the parent company. balance sheet as follows: Once the put option has been settled, this Recognised in provisions to subsidiaries -8 -2 difference will cease. Recognised in receivables from subsidiaries -14 -5 Subsidiaries with a negative net asset value Net value, end of year -22 -7 are recognised at EUR 0. Any legal or constructive obligation of the parent company to Hereof comprises premium 6 – cover the negative balance of the enterprise is The premium included is similar to goodwill related to acquisition of minority shares. recognised in receivables from subsidiaries. The premium is subject to an amortisation period of 10 years. 90 | 5.7 The Hempel Group including foreign branches Location Name Currency Share capital Ownership Denmark Hempel A/S DKK 115 000 000 100% Argentina Hempel Argentina S.R.L. ARS 338 774 200 100% Australia Hempel (Australia) Pty. Ltd. AUD 700 000 100% Austria Ostendorf GmbH EUR 18 168 65% Bahrain Dahna Paint Middle East Holding B.S.C. (closed) BHD 5 000 000 51% Bahrain Hempel Paints (Bahrain) S.P.C. BHD 300 000 51% Brazil Hempel Tintas do Brasil Ltda BRL 31 211 487 100% Canada Hempel (Canada) Inc. CAD 1 776 005 100% Chile Pinturas Hempel Chile SpA CLP 1 651 829 100% China Hempel (China) Limited HKD 106 000 000 100% China Hempel (China) Management Co., Ltd. CNY 50 000 000 100% China Hempel (Kunshan) Coatings Ltd. CNY 110 035 054 100% China Hempel (Yantai) Coatings Ltd. CNY 42 656 510 100% China Hempel (Guangzhou) Coatings Ltd. CNY 185 327 620 100% China Hempel Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Ltd. USD 0 100% Croatia Hempel Coatings (Croatia) Ltd. HRK 31 019 200 100% Cyprus Hempel Coatings (Cyprus) Limited EUR 1 000 100% Czech Republic Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o. CZK 30 000 000 100% Denmark HSA (Danmark) A/S DKK 10 000 000 100% Denmark Hempel Decorative Paints A/S DKK 1 000 000 100% Denmark Brifa Maling A/S DKK 11 200 000 65% Ecuador Hempel (Ecuador) S.A. USD 100 000 100% Egypt Hempel Coatings Egypt LLC EGP 3 000 000 100% Egypt Hempel Egypt L.L.C. EGP 200 000 100% Egypt Hempel Paints Egypt LLC EGP 250 000 99% Finland OY Hempel (Finland) AB EUR 63 000 100% France Hempel (France) S.A. EUR 1 220 000 100% France BB Participations SAS EUR 4 000 000 65% France BB Fabrications SAS EUR 1 000 000 65% France Bontemps-Bonnarme SAS EUR 75 000 65% France L.A.R.Y Peintures SARL EUR 8 000 65% Germany Hempel (Germany) GmbH EUR 1 533 876 100% Germany Hempel Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH EUR 25 000 100% 92 | Location Name Currency Share capital Ownership Location Name Currency Share capital Ownership Germany J.W. Ostendorf GmbH & Co. KG EUR 520 000 65% Saudi Arabia Hempel Paints (Saudi Arabia) W.L.L. SAR 24 500 000 51% Germany Ostendorf-Beteiligungs-GmbH EUR 32 000 65% Saudi Arabia Painting Materials and Equipment Centre Co. LTD SAR 1 000 000 26% Germany FLT Handel & Service GmbH EUR 25 565 65% Singapore Hempel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. SGD 2 700 000 100% Germany Brand.IQ GmbH EUR 500 000 65% South Africa Hempel Paints South Africa (Pty) Ltd. ZAR 9 500 000 100% Germany Ostendorf Frankreich Holding GmbH EUR 25 000 65% Spain Pinturas Hempel SAU EUR 1 202 000 100% Germany Rottkamp Immoblilien GmbH & Co. KG EUR 2 500 65% Sweden Hempel (Sweden) AB SEK 2 500 000 100% Germany Rottkamp Immobilien Verwaltung GmbH EUR 25 000 65% Switzerland Hempel Schweiz AG CHF 100 000 100% Greece Hempel Coatings (Hellas) S.A. EUR 6 300 000 100% Switzerland J.W. Ostendorf (Schweiz) AG CHF 100 000 65% India Hempel Paints (India) Private Limited INR 690 000 000 100% Syria Hempel Paints (Syria) W.L.L. SYP 121 600 000 49% Indonesia P.T. Hempel Indonesia IDR 830 000 000 100% Taiwan Hempel (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. TWD 20 000 000 100% Iraq Hempel (Iraq) Ltd USD 8 300 31% Thailand Hempel (Thailand) Ltd. THB 3 000 000 100% Ireland Crown Paints Ireland Limited EUR 127 100% The Netherlands Hempel (The Netherlands) B.V. EUR 500 000 100% Italy Hempel (Italy) S.r.l. EUR 50 000 100% The Netherlands Hempel Industrial B.V. EUR 306 450 100% Kenya Hempel Paints Kenya Company Limited KES 10 000 000 100% Turkey Hempel Coatings San. ve Tic. Ltd. Sti. TRY 2 789 300 100% Korea Hempel Korea Co. Ltd. KRW 1 450 000 000 100% UK Crown Brands Limited GBP 1 000 100% Kuwait Hempel Paints (Kuwait) K.S.C.C. KWD 600 000 51% UK Crown Paints Limited GBP 1 000 100% Malaysia Hempel (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd MYR 5 000 000 100% UK Crown Paints Group Limited GBP 100 000 100% Malaysia Hempel Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MYR 9 500 000 100% UK Crown Paints Holdings Limited GBP 100 000 100% Mexico Pinturas Hempel de Mexico S.A. de C.V. MXN 3 750 000 100% UK Hempel Decorative Paints Limited GBP 2 000 100% Morocco Hempel Maroc SARL MAD 2 500 000 100% UK Hempel UK Ltd. GBP 4 100 000 100% New Zealand Hempel (New Zealand) Ltd. NZD 300 000 100% UK Reebor Limited GBP 100 1% Norway Hempel (Norway) AS NOK 5 081 427 100% UK Ostendorf U.K. Ltd. GBP 0 65% Oman Hempel (Oman) L.L.C OMR 500 000 25% Ukraine Hempel Ukraine LLC UAH 656 291 100% Peru Hempel Pinturas Del Perú S.A.C. PEN 4 900 000 100% UAE Hempel Paints (Abu Dhabi) L.L.C. AED 150 000 39% Poland Hempel Paints (Poland) S.p. z o.o. PLN 60 500 000 100% UAE Hempel Paints (Emirates) L.L.C. AED 4 000 000 49% Portugal Hempel (Portugal) S.A. EUR 1 246 995 100% USA Hempel (USA), Inc. USD 87 922 373 100% Qatar Hempel Paints (Qatar) W.L.L. QAR 4 000 000 28% USA Jones-Blair Company, LLC USD 0 100% Russia JSC Hempel RUB 95 000 100% Vietnam Hempel Vietnam Company Limited VND 116 498 272 000 100% Financial statements | 93 5.8 Financial definitions Foreign branches Financial ratios have been calculated as follows: Austria Hempel (Germany) GmbH Branch office Absolute organic revenue growth Organic growth = Germany FLT Handel & Service GmbH Branch office Cochem Revenue in comparative period Hungary Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., Magyarorszagi Fioktelepe Organic growth is defined as growth from one year to the next, based on values in fixed currencies for both years excluding mergers, acquisitions and divestments, etc. Japan Hempel (Singapore) Pte Ltd Japan Branch Office, Tokyo Gross profit Slovakia Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., org. zlozka Slovensko Gross margin = Revenue EBITDA EBITDA margin = Revenue EBITDA = Operating profit (and loss) before amortisations and depreciations Operating profit (loss) Operating profit margin = Revenue Return on invested Operating profit (loss) = capital Average invested capital Intangibles + property, plant and equipment + inventories + receivables other provisions trade Invested capital = payables other payables Shareholder’s equity Equity ratio = Total assets Net interest-bearing debt Leverage ratio = EBITDA Overdraft facilities + bank loans, etc. + interest-bearing payables to Group enterprise cash at bank and Net interest-bearing debt = in hand Free cash flow is defined as net cash generated from operating activities less net cash used in investing Free cash flow = activities. Total cash from operating activities + income tax paid + interest income and expenses paid, net Cash conversion = EBITDA Accounts receivable x 90 Accounts receivable days = Revenue (last 3 months) Accounts payable x 90 Accounts payable days = Cost of goods sold + change in inventory (last 3 months) Inventory x 90 Inventory days = Cost of goods sold (last 3 months) Average net working = Accounts receivable days + inventory days accounts payable days (12 months average) capital days 94 | Follow us Streaming LinkedIn hempel.com Follow Hempel on social media to get all the latest news, thoughtleadership articles, videos and stories about our work. hempel.com Hempel A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Tel: +45 4593 3800 Fax: +45 4588 5518 Email: hempel@hempel.com
