From our board of directors to our stakeholders: 17-12-2020 I am pleased to confirm that Koninklijke Van der Most reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours faithfully, Ms. Marriël van der Most CEO Here at Koninklijke Van der Most, we greatly value Corporate Social Responsibility. However, we feel that this is only natural – not just to ensure commercial success, but mostly because we want to be able to hand over a beautiful family business to future generations. We operate fully in accordance with all legal sustainability criteria, but also supplement our policy with various other activities that contribute to the environment, to society, and to Social Return Of Investment. Our sustainability policy consists of three pillars: Local, National, and International. Below, you will find a more detailed explanation of the activities that comprise these three pillars. Local Societal purpose We are located in the Veluwe area, the green lungs of the whole of the Netherlands. To help ensure that this beautiful area is kept clean, we have installed water taps along popular cycling routes, which stimulates cyclists to refill their bottles instead of throwing them away. We also sponsor a wide range of events and associations to which our employees dedicate their free time, such as the Koninklijke Van der Most Indoor Gala, which stimulates children from Heerde and the surrounding area to engage in exercise. Corporate purpose Our objective is to make our entire chain more sustainable and operate in the most environmentally friendly manner possible. Using our own Environmental Management System, we research possibilities for reducing waste and hazardous materials in our entire (production) chain. To this effect, we not only investigate our own processes, but those of our suppliers (and their suppliers) and our clients as well. In doing so, we are guided by applicable legislation and regulations and the environmental agreements that have been made within the graphics industry (KVGO). Employees CSR is all about safeguarding the sustainability of People, Planet, and Profit. This also means that we consciously invest in the development, vitality, and loyalty of our staff, which results in happy, motivated employees. We achieve this aim by facilitating training courses, working on creating greater labour mobility, and stimulating our staff to contribute to society. Diversity is wealth We recognise that diversity is a form of wealth and are an inclusive organisation. Last year, we engaged in a partnership with the Dutch Employee Insurance Agency (UWV) Public Employment Agency, the Felua Group, and the municipality of Heerde. We currently employ 6 staff members with an occupational impairment as part of the government’s deployability initiative. National WarChild ‘Children do not belong in war. Never. All children have the right to live in peace, develop in a healthy manner, and grow up to become balanced adults.’ That is WarChild‘s view, and we support it 100%. Children should spend their time playing, instead of coming of age in aggressive, dangerous environments. That is why we are one of WarChild’s business partners and are involved in the process of ensuring that children who are a victim of war get a better life. We do so by offering our services for DirectMail campaigns and printing and distributing WarChild’s envelopes and stationery free of charge. Metabolic Project We are the ambassador and ringleader of the KVGO’s ‘Metabolic Project’. Our role in this project is to decrease the use of hazardous materials amongst our fellow printing works as well as employers and employees alike in the graphics industry. We also promote the manufacturing of IPA-free printed materials. International Hydropower Plant We are partly facilitating the ‘Run of River’ project, which is building a hydropower plant in Kinnaur, a region in the north of India. This plant will generate hydropower and greatly contribute to reducing the area’s Co2 emissions. Moreover, it has provided the region with an important socio-economic impetus. It not only provides new jobs, but also guarantees that the area has a reliable power source, improving the area’s liveability. Forest conservation project We produce all our products completely CO2 neutral, which means we have CO2 neutral business operations. We do this by means of compensation. We started looking for a CO2 compensation project where the impact matches our products. We arrived at the forest conservation project in Kariba (Zimbabwe). With this we commit to the REDD + program (developed by the UN to combat the 17% greenhouse gases generated by deforestation) and to the following SDGs 1, 5, 6, 13 and 15 (Sustainable Development Goals) also set by the UN during the climate agreement in Paris, 2015. The ten principles of the united nation global compact. Human rights • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Contribution of Koninklijke van der Most: It is important for our company that all of our employees and business partners respect the human rights of people. Activities implemented: 1. We ensure safe working places for all of our employees. 2. More than 90% of all our paper we use, is FSC certified. FSC is a trademark for good forest management, including the employees. 3. We are certified for the NEN-ISO 45001. Here we are checked if we are constantly improving our health and safety management system. 4. We implemented a code of conduct. Three key concepts are central to every decision. Namely: People, Profit and Planet Labour • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Contribution of Koninklijke van der Most: All of our new employees will receive a ‘information magazine’ about Koninklijke Van der Most. In this magazine there are policies about environment and labour. All of our employees do have a contract. This contract meets the minimum requirements of the graphic collective labor agreement. In the graphic collective labor agreement have been rules drawn up about child labour, forced and compulsory labour. Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Contribution of Koninklijke van der Most: As said before one of our three pillars about sustainability is planet. We do a lot of things to reduce the impact on the environment. We are certified for FSC, NEN-ISO 14001, MVI (Dutch trademark for socially responsible purchasing), ClimateCalc (calculation tool for our CO2 footprint). Reducing our CO2 footprint: We have done a lot to reduce our footprint. We have replaced our fluorescent lamps for LED lighting. We re-use the heat that is released by our compressor. 80% of our machines run IPA free. 40% of our cars run on electricity. We are using certified green power. We compensate the last bit of CO2 that we produce through a project in Zimbabwe. Anti-corruption principles • Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Contribution of Koninklijke van der Most: Koninklijke Van der Most B.V. maps the risks of human rights violations. Suppliers are assessed by country of origin. Based on the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) of the organization “Transparency International”. Depending on the score, it is partly determined whether Koninklijke Van der Most B.V. does business with the relevant organization. We expect all our stakeholders to recognize and comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).
