This page is intentionally left blank. Kiroyan Partners was founded during Indonesia's postThe triple bottom line a sustainability framework first 1 reform era when the call for governance and coined by John Elkington at SustainAbility in 1994, is transparency in both the public and business sphere the essence of a sustainable business –how corporates are growing stronger. In addition, Indonesia’s journey not just focus on the economic value they add, but toward democracy also created a more complex socioalso the social and environmental value they add or political environment that businesses should navigate, impair. Amidst the challenge in balancing the three, especially in the engagement with government, media, Kiroyan Partners believes that it should always strive and society. Businesses found the new landscape to achieve harmony between those key aspects. provided them with not only opportunities but also challenges to continue operating in an open and This second sustainability report is the embodiment of accountable manner. Against this backdrop, Noke our commitment in achieving a sustainable business in Kiroyan, with decades-long managerial expertise and Indonesia. Evaluating and reporting our performance executive-level experience, established Kiroyan in economic, environment and social aspects, so that Partners in 2006 as a public affairs consulting firm to we could look at the bigger picture, identify our help businesses understand Indonesia better and stay weaknesses, and subsequently, have the opportunity true to their value. to improve ourselves. With the current ever-changing local and global Bearing this mindset, we are committed to improving environment, and a unified call for sustainable our business and relationship with our stakeholders business practices, it is the time for us as a leading and will continue this practice in the years to come. Public Affairs Consulting firm to think back about our business sustainability from social and environment aspects that are gaining traction globally. 2 Since the beginning of our operation until 2017, This report covers the period of January to December 3 Kiroyan Partners has regularly reported our 2019.[102-50] In its development, we have put in place commitment to the United Nations Global Compact several engagement activities for our identified key (UNGC) through reporting platform of stakeholders aimed to better address their concerns, Communication on Progress (CoP).[102-12] In 2018, we particularly in terms of economic, environmental, decided to take another step forward by referring to and social impacts caused by our business activities. the guidance provided by the Global Reporting This step is essential in abiding with the GRI Initiative (GRI) on an annual basis .[102-52] This Standards. As a result, readers will find several initiative marks our readiness to oversee and report adjustments of the issues from the 2018 report. our economic, social, and environmental impacts as well as our yearly performance comprising those We made improvements to this report as our impacts to our stakeholders. commitment and readiness to communicate more consistently, transparent, and easily understood with We humbly acknowledge that there will always be a our stakeholders. room for improvement in our reporting practice, especially in addressing sustainability. Hence, in line For any inquiries, questions, or feedback about this with our philosophy to always grow professionally, report, we will be available to answer your we put our best effort into ensuring that we correspondence at info@kiroyan-partners.com.[102-53] perennially improve ourselves and our deliverables. As a result, this second annual sustainability report This report has been prepared in accordance with the was made with several improvements from the GRI Standards: Core options.[102-54] report in 2018 (see the process of Defining Material Topics and Boundaries).[102-51][102-52] 4 Dear our esteemed stakeholders and partners, I am particularly pleased to share with you that in 2019 we maintained our ethical practices and clients’ confidentiality. At Kiroyan Partners (KP), sustainability has always been our With regards to social impacts, and our focus on employment compass that helps navigate our daily affairs and future. practices, we managed to have a more equal work distribution Established 13 years ago, we aspire to help businesses build among our employees and provided them with access to good reputations by applying ethical and responsible higher number of training programs. This is a satisfactory 5 communications, while at the same time safeguard our own result of our efforts in responding the long hours and heavy business practices in adherence to sustainability principles. workload that generally occur across consulting industry. Our Looking back at 2019, I am delighted to introduce our second high productivity also did not hinder us from contributing to Sustainability Report, which highlights our sustainability efforts the environment protection by consuming less energy in addressing our economic, social, and environmental throughout the year. impacts. Learning from the previous experience, we improved We believe that sustainability is rather a journey than a our sustainability reporting practice by having a more inclusive destination. Therefore, while ensuring our consulting business stakeholder involvement as a part of report development and keeps growing, we also need to continue and scale up our betterment of the material topics presented in the report. sustainable practices. We are committing to make Today, in a democratic environment like Indonesia, public improvement in several areas which become our stakeholders’ affairs consulting firms play a more important role in helping concerns, as further explained in the report. We will keep businesses across fields to obtain support from their collaborating with our stakeholders to provide public affairs stakeholders in the attempt to ensure organizational success. industry in Indonesia with quality services that are aligned with However, like in other countries, public affairs industry here is sustainability principles. also challenged by a similar key issue, namely ethical conduct. Finally, I would like to extend my gratitude to our loyal talents, At KP, we always strive not only to strictly comply with clients, and partners for their continuous support in making government regulations, but also to consistently self-regulate sustainable business practices possible in this particularly our business practices by firmly refusing the so called 'grey challenging industry. areas' and continually improving our corporate affairs according to the UN Global Compact principles in human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Verlyana (Veve) Hitipeuw CEO and Principal Consultant Considering our business size and sector, we are not generally viewed as a high-impact sector. Nonetheless, to promote sustainable 6 business practices, we took the effort to identify our business footprint in order to understand the characteristics of our own activities and their impacts on society. Referring to the GRI Standards, we use the term 'material topics' to describe aspects which can be categorized into three main dimensions of economic, social, and environmental. According to the GRI Standards’ Reporting Principles, there are three principles to consider in defining material topics: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and materiality. Stakeholder Research on Stemming from our 2018 Sustainability Report, we conducted further research and Inclusiveness & industry trend and document study on consulting business trend and sustainability concerns as means to Sustainability sustainability issues refine and update our material topics. This is to ensure the relevance of our sustainability Context practices in the global and local context. Interviews and Interviews and FGDs were conducted to obtain stakeholders’ concerns and issues Focus Group pertaining to Kiroyan Partners’ business activities, particularly in the context of Discussions (FGDs) sustainability. For more information on Stakeholder Engagement, see Stakeholder Engagement section on page 31. Materiality Mapping issues & • We sorted and ranked issues based on their significance within the ‘Stakeholder determining Inclusiveness’ and ‘Sustainability Context’ variables as illustrated in the graph below. material topics • Issues mapping also considered sustainability issues raised in the context of business consulting industry to further validate our updated findings. • The process of determining material topics also involved extensive deliberation with our management team. Influence on stakeholder assessments & decisions Clients’ privacy and Anticonfidentiality As mentioned in About This Report section, there are corruption several material topics that are different with the ones we presented in our 2018 Sustainability Report. These changes 7 Service quality Well-being were made based on the changes in significance of the issues to our stakeholders from the process mentioned Employee development above and after our internal deliberations.[102-49] Employeemanagement relations Paper waste Benefits management Energy use and Knowledge management • Confidentiality on • Clients’ privacy and sharing sensitive information confidentiality • Work-life balance • Well-being Diversity We also changed our method in defining the significance of our material topics to two curve lines. From the material Business opportunity for local suppliers topics above, we have decided to omit less impactful topics, namely service quality, benefits, and business opportunity for local suppliers. Significance of economic, environmental, & social impacts Economic Environmental Social Reporting Principle is a concept Our People Well-being Work environment safety, health benefits, that describes the outcomes a workload distribution, and work-life balance. report is expected to achieve, and that guides decisions made EmployeeCompany policies and values, internal throughout the reporting process management communications, and significant operational around the report content or relations changes. quality. Employee Trainings facilitation (internal and external), In reference to the GRI Standards, 8 development enabling environment for personal the term ‘material topic(s)’ in this development (time compensation and physical report refers to topic(s) that working environment). reflects a reporting organization’s significant economic, Diversity Hiring practices, remunerations, training environmental, and social impacts; opportunities, promotions, and decisionor which substantively influences making opportunities. stakeholders’ assessments and decisions. Our Client Clients’ privacy Clients’ profile, contact information, sensitive and information, data and documents protection. ‘Topic Boundaries’ are description confidentiality of where the impacts occur for a specific material topic and Our Paper waste Plastic and paper waste management. organization’s involvement in such Environment management impacts. Energy use and Electronic devices use and electricity usage. We define ‘impacts’ as the effect an management organization has on the economy, Our Community Anti-corruption Finance, governance and project execution. environment, and/or society, which and Industry in turn indicates its contribution Knowledge Communication-related knowledge sharing (positive or negative) to sustainable sharing programs and collaborations. development. It does not refer to an effect upon an organization, NOTES: such as a change to its reputation. Based on this definition and • This report includes non-GRI disclosures to provide a more extensive understanding on the concept, we have identified the distinctive nature of our sustainability impact, company’s management approach, and following material topics for each performance to address the identified material topics. reporting dimension of economic, • GRI Standards allow and recommend organizations to report other appropriate disclosures environmental, and social should the material topics chosen are not covered by an existing GRI Standard. components. Consistent with 2018, zero record • • Similar with 2018, zero complaint on rejection of leave or works on privacy and data protection. from home request. 38 training programs accessed • by employees, 322% more 9 program than last year. A more equal work distribution • compared to in 2018; the difference between clocked in hours' median and mean decreased by 98%. 1,981 kg of printed materials, 24% • increase from 2018. • Same as 2018, zero case related to 15 kg of plastics, 6% decrease from • corruption. 2018. Since 2015, KP remains committed to • prioritize digital media subscription • 7 external knowledge sharing programs instead of print media to reduce conducted. paper waste. • Equivalent to IDR 759 million of service dedicated for knowledge sharing programs. 13,263.20 kWh of electricity • • 3 pro bono assistances for local and consumption, 3% decrease from international non-profit organizations. 2018. • 9 published public affairs columns in PR Indonesia magazine. • 7 published articles of our team members in national and international media. • 7 interns mentored. • 1 mentoring session for lecturers from Swiss-German University. At Kiroyan Partners, we believe that our employees play a central role in determining the company’s competitiveness and success. This is not only relevant 10 with regards to our commitment in delivering the highest quality of services, but also in ensuring that responsible and ethical consulting practices are well translated along the way. For that, the company has been very mindful on the importance to provide support our employees in their interest and career development; in a way that also supports our business growth. This resulted in immense efforts from the company to employ sustainable employment* practices to retain our workforce. It is important that our employees work in a healthy, motivated, and competent manner, regardless of their position and age group. Against this background, Kiroyan Partners addresses relevant topics in business consulting industries that are critical in implementing sustainable employment practices, namely well-being, employee-management relations, employee development, and diversity.[103-1] * Sustainable employment has been defined as the extent to which workers are able and willing to remain working now and in the future. More companies and studies recognize the link between productivity and employees’ general health and well-being. Our understanding of well-being stems from the International Labor Organizations definition that considers safety, health and workers’ satisfaction and engagement as key aspects of the issue.[103-1] of rejection to employee requests to work from At Kiroyan Partners, we view well-being as one of core responsibilities of good home. corporate citizenship and a critical performance strategy to drive employee engagement, organizational energy, and productivity. To achieve this objective, we have implemented several policies and/or practices that to work from home were granted to 7 employees advocate: in 2019. • Work environment safety 11 Kiroyan Partners acknowledges the long hours that are often spent by our employees working.[103-1] Hence, the company facilitates overtime transportation by providing taxi vouchers from Jakarta’s reputable taxi service.[103-2] To date, this policy has consistently been practiced and of rejection to employee requests for annual leave. utilized by all of our employees.[103-3] • Encouragement of work-life balance practice of annual leave entitlement for all employees. The company is in full support for employees to maintain their work-life balance—time allocated for work and for other aspects of life.[103-1] At total additional leave for Eid al-Fitr and Christmas Kiroyan Partners, we recognize the fundamental rights of our celebration, and on December 31. employees to fulfill their responsibilities within their respective family and/or communities. of annual leave bonus granted to 6 employees that As it helps ensure the balance of social functions for society at large, have worked for more than 3 years. this aspect is particularly of major importance for various industries, including services and consulting industry such as ours. We have *Labor Bill mandates 12 days leave entitlement. implemented several policies to support the work-life balance and address potential issues related to workplace stress that include flexible working hours, annual leave entitlement, and leave compensation for working overtime or during holidays policies,[103-2] as well as parental leave and sick-leave policy.[401-3] The management regularly checks employees’ leave entitlements so the of leave compensation granted. company can remind them to use their annual leaves. This reminder is formally communicated during mid-year and annual appraisal sessions. Upon further evaluation, the company finds the importance to not only [401-3] remind employees in taking their leave, but also to apply stricter regulation on leave compensation proposal and usage. This is to ensure that any work conducted outside working hours can be properly maternity leave (90 days) granted for one compensated.[103-3] management member. • Work system • Employees’ health protection Acknowledging the prevalence of workspace stress issues Company’s provision of benefits plan aims to protect among employees, we concluded that work system should employee’s health so they will be able to maintain their active facilitate the equal distribution of workload, enable teamwork involvement and productivity in the company.[103-1] culture, and drive the quality of services.[103-1] Our workload distribution is not only based on consultants’ availabilities, We are proud to share that we do not only comply to state’s but also considers any learning opportunity they would be regulation by providing state’s mandatory life and health exposed to, providing room for new experiences and insurance (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan and BPJS Kesehatan), but growth.[103-1] also have gone the extra mile by providing private health insurance to our permanent employees.[103-2] Upon further At Kiroyan Partners, we use time tracking software Toggl to input from our employees, the company acknowledges the monitor and evaluate workload of each employee. We have a importance to provide greater benefits for our employee’s policy that obligates employees to clock in their time each family and is committed to take further action necessary in week and the monthly summary of clocked in hours will be the coming years.[103-3] 12 announced in the following month.[103-2] By using Toggl data, we strive to distribute workload evenly to each employee. Employees recorded more than Employees recorded more BPJS Ketenagakerjaan 100% employees 9,138 working hours. than 15.014 working hours. 92% employees BPJS Kesehatan* Median value at 455 hours and Median value at 836 hours (higher than in 2018 – 88%) mean value at 580 hours, and mean value at 834, indicating a more unequal work indicating a more equal work 100% of permanent Private Health Insurance distribution.* distribution. employees** Employees averagely spent 7 Most employees averagely consulting hours per working spent 6-8 consulting hours ** The company policy obliged state’s mandatory health insurance day. per working day, with only (BPJS Kesehatan) of all employees to be immediately activated upon one spent up to 9 hours for joining the company. Nonetheless, administrative issues in the BPJS two consecutive months due Kesehatan application process, which falls beyond the company’s to field research. control, had sometimes hinder the allotment of this benefit to some of our employees (only one employee during the reporting period). ** During reporting period, private health insurance has yet to be * The mandatory Toggl entry has been implemented since 2015. granted to two employees under probation period. Nonetheless, until August 2019, the accuracy of our time-tracking system was highly dependent on the discipline of our employees in using the software. Thus, data in 2015 until July 2019 might not reflect the actual case. Upon this internal evaluation, this year, we have enforced greater discipline of our workers in logging in their hours by making it mandatory and evaluated it regularly as stipulated under Company Policy on Time Tracking and Billable Hours.[103-3] submission, the company is obliged to include employee feedback on company’s regulation that is formally signed by The state of employee-management relations demonstrates the an employee representative. The latest submission was in fulfillment of reciprocal rights and obligations between employees 2018 and to be conducted again in 2020. and a company. At Kiroyan Partners, we believe that an operative employee-management relation allows us to fulfill our obligation as • In 2019, for the first time, the management initiated a employer, while at the same time also taking into account company’s internal communication survey through in-depth employees’ needs and interest.[103-1] Hence, ensuring employees’ interviews with several employees and online survey to all access to voice their rights and concerns as well as practicing employees. The survey was later used as a basis for internal transparency within the company become an important tool for us communications improvement in 2019. to achieve the ideal state of employee-management relations. • A follow-up survey was conducted in early 2020 by involving Kiroyan Partners is fully compliant with national and local labor not only our current employees but also former employees to 13 regulations that include Law No. 13/2003 on Labor, Law No. 3/1992 measure the effectiveness of our internal communications on Social Benefit for Worker, Regulation of the Minister of practices in 2019. The survey result concluded that, in Manpower No. 4/1993 on Work Accidents Insurance, DKI Jakarta general, our internal communications were perceived as Government Regulations No. 6/2004 on Labor, and Law No. 1/1970 satisfying with employees highlighting the effectiveness and on Health Safety. In addition, we apply open-door management comfortability aspects. Nonetheless, some detailed aspects policy that provides our employees with total freedom and avenue for further improvements has been identified and this has to express their ideas, concerns, or suggestions for the company. allowed the company to strive further in ensuring our employees have better understanding on company’s The open-door policy also helps our management to ensure operations and policies.[103-3] employees’ interests are being taken into account during company’s decision-making process, aside from other medium such as informal meetings or formal meetings (exit interview and mid and annual appraisal). We also make sure that all our company policies and employment information are available for all Given the wide array of industries that Kiroyan Partners serves and employees that they can reach the management at any time to considering the ever-evolving external environment which offer any feedback and accordingly receive response to their challenges our consulting practices, employees training, and inputs.[103-2] development are critical to the ongoing success of our company. As means to ensure that our approach in addressing employeeParticularly, in ensuring and continuously improving the delivery of management relations remain relevant to internal and external quality service to our clients.[103-1] dynamics, the company conducts the following practices :[103-2] As further embodiment of our principles “Individual Excellence”, • Collection process for employee feedbacks during mid-year “Teamwork”, and “Good is Not Good Enough”, we drive our appraisal and annual appraisal session. employees to grow professionally and deepen their passion with the company. We actively foster employee development through • Biannual submission of company’s regulation (Peraturan three main approaches: Perusahaan) to Labor Department. As a pre-requisite of the • Variety of training [103-2] The company has been consistently ensured that employees are provided with access to personalized learning path based on management’s performance evaluation to each team members. In 2018, however, challenges appeared when it was getting increasingly difficult to acquire relevant courses and training provider to best meet our interest such as critical thinking, project management, and business ethics. The intense hours and dynamic nature of employees’ job responsibilities had also prevented them from finding appropriate time to fit in their schedule for personal development. By 2019, it was mutually agreed by the management and employees to incorporate the LinkedIn Learning platform to better support their learning process. Employees capacity development has since been supported with more than 5,000 courses provided by the platform. Although the number of conventional or direct training participation declined from nine programs in 2018 to five programs in 2019, online learning maximization had allowed our employees to be exposed with higher number and wider range of programs, ranging from leadership and management, communication skills, to business development. 14 [404-2] Conventional/Direct Training 9 programs 5 programs Online Course (LinkedIn Learning) None 33 programs • Enabling environment for knowledge expansion [103-2] To nurture the culture of continuous learning, our principal meeting room also serves as a library that houses books and research papers relevant to our business. To date, the library holds over 1,300 collections. All employees including the interns are encouraged to read them. • Collective learning and knowledge sharing session [103-2] As part of our effort in stimulating innovation through knowledge sharing, we regularly invite all team members in activities to learn and exchange thoughts on technical skills relevant to our consulting work, as well as issues of employee’s interests. Knowledge sharing activities consist of weekly project review for the whole year, the Knowledge, Experience, and Meals Sharing (KEMS) sessions, and KP Academy. KEMS 6 sessions 8 sessions KP Academy None 8 sessions As means to ensure that all employees and the company gain the most of our talent development offerings, the management team usually conducts mid-year and annual appraisal where our employees are provided with an intimate session to discuss the progress of their personal and career development. This allow us to simultaneously evaluate the effectiveness of our development efforts on employee’s professional enrichment.[103-3] Kiroyan Partners treats its employees based on the merit system principles and values the diverse background of its pool of talents. Since its inception, the company has always been trying to ensure that everybody has an equal opportunity and is not treated differently or discriminated against because of their characteristics.[103-2] Furthermore, our work culture and environment are set to enable all employees to maximize their potential by facilitating equal opportunity in project development and management facilitation, as well as equal payment.[103-2] We clearly define our values and principles to ensure we can attract people with vision and professional mindset aligned with ours.[103-1] As a result, Kiroyan Partners is able to attract talents and clients with diverse backgrounds –a competitive advantage that we aim to retain through the merit system and non-discriminatory principles.[103-3] • Equal gender diversity 15 The overall gender diversity in Kiroyan Partners has increased to a 1:1 ratio which means there is equal number of male and female employees.[405-1] Male 9 11 Female 11 12 With regards to career development in 2019, from 12 female employees 3 were assigned as senior level consultants, while 2 were at key level positions of Administration Manager and Executive. • Equal remuneration Kiroyan Partners determines the remuneration of its employees based on existing regulations and merit system. Male and female employees receive equal salary according to their respective grade and work performance. We can conclude that KP doesn’t differentiate the salary of its employees but pays them in accordance to their merits.[405-2] • Non-discrimination Kiroyan Partners does not discriminate when it comes to gender, age, religion, political stance, or physical ability. Employees are given the opportunity to raise issues on discriminatory act to the management through the open-door management policy. Similar policy is applied to clients which enables them to raise concerns on any discriminatory acts to our management through employees who act as project managers. With the non-discriminatory approach we apply, we are happy to share that KP did not receive any report nor complaint on discrimination towards employees and clients.[406-1] As a firm offering professional services to 16 companies operating in various industries, our clients are central to our operation. Recognizing and responding to the everchanging landscape of information technology networks and systems within and outside of consulting, it is especially important in our operations to safeguard clients’ privacy and confidentiality.[103-1] Protection of consumer privacy is a generally recognized goal in national regulations and organizational policies. As set out in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, organizations are expected to ‘respect consumer privacy and take reasonable measures to ensure the security of personal data that they collect, store, process, or disseminate’. Global recognition and its importance to business sustainability further add the significance of the issue to be properly managed by our company. Internally, we build and maintain a robust commitment to protecting clients’ privacy as stipulated in Chapter VII Article 29 in our company’s regulation on Confidentiality, which prohibits employees to reveal data deemed as confidential.[103-2] When a new hire gets on board, through our Induction Session we ensure to communicate and discuss at length our business 17 principles, stance on ethics, and security measures including data privacy.[103-2] Cementing that commitment moving outward, we provide Nondisclosure Agreements (NDAs) as a legal binding agreement that the information shared pertaining to the project and services rendered will not be disclosed or used for any purposes other than those outlined in the contract and informally agreed upon.[103-2] The NDA extends not only between the firm and clients, but also to any third parties involved in the project, including our interns. As we understand that the consultancy work is nurtured through teamwork discussions, we employ a code system for every client that allows team members to protect clients’ names and brands when forced to discuss project-related issues in public.[103-2] To strike the right balance and provide room for improvement, we always seek for advice and facilitate concern from our clients should any of our conduct raise any alarms regarding a breach of confidentiality.[103-3] With this careful consideration on how to balance commercial interest and clients’ privacy, we received no confidentiality complaints from our clients in 2019.[418-1] 18 Although our scope and business in nature has a minimum exposure to and impact on the environment, we are committed to improving the efficiency of our operations and harnessing the ingenuity of our people to help foster the global shift towards a lowcarbon economy. As a professional services company, our environmental footprint primarily consists of the carbon emissions we generate through regular utilization of materials and energy. In minimizing our operational footprint towards the environment, we approach our goals through raising internal and external stakeholder awareness of paper waste management and energy use.[103-1] As our work output is predominantly delivered through reports Since its inception, our company has been consistently and documents, we focus on paper usage efficiency and waste maintaining its focus on implementing energy-saving activities handling. We started using Microsoft Teams in 2018 for for electricity. We have consciously selected an office complex internal flow of communication and discussion among that is committed to responsible use of energy. The office’s air consultants and has significantly reduced our need to print out conditioning is not included in our data as it is managed by the work materials for internal use. building management, operates only during business hours i.e. 7:00AM to 6:00PM. Towards our clients, we always seek for ways to avoid printing and proactively advise the efficiency and sufficiency of digital Our energy saving practices are also applied to lighting and copies. By doing so, we expect clients to be increasingly aware other electronic devices (laptops, phones, printers, etc.). Our 19 on the availability of digital forms of our product and rethink staffs are accustomed to making sure and excellent at their needs for printed materials. For output which needs reminding each other that lights and appliances should be printing, we ensure to manage our waste responsibly. We have turned off while they are not in-use.[103-2] been practicing paper waste separation since 2011 in collaboration with IndoArsip to recycle our residue.[103-2] Last year, we evaluated our spatial use and concluded to close some spaces for efficiency. This has resulted in a decrease of In 2019, our activities and operations utilized 15 kg of plastic– 1 our energy usage. Our 2019 energy consumption went down kg less than the previous year. Due to the need of particular 3.24% to 13,263.20 kWh compared to the previous year.[302-1] projects for printing (e.g. training modules), our paper usage KP’s performance in electric energy consumption remains slightly increased to 1,981 kg.[301-1] To support our need for aligned with our sustainability effort with 45 kWh/m2/year. updated information and to keep up with current issues, we According to the Green Building Council Indonesia, the subscribed to seven digital media, namely Bisnis Indonesia, benchmark for Minimum Building Energy Performance is set at Kompas, Tempo, Kontan, The Jakarta Post, Investor Daily, and 250 kWh/m2/year for offices.[103-3] The Economist. Throughout our stakeholder engagement activities, KP acknowledges industry and stakeholders’ expectations for us to take further step on waste management, which includes plastic and other materials.[103-3] We put high importance on the expansion of this concern and commit to address this in the upcoming year. Therefore, we have been implementing several initiatives such as reducing the use of plastic cups, single-use cutleries, and plastic straws. We also plan to advocate and identify rooms for collaboration with our building management regarding waste disposal. 20 Considering the firm’s size and sector, Kiroyan Partners acknowledges that it is generally viewed as a low-impact company. However, we believe that meaningful impact is not determined by the size of the company nor which sector we belong to. Being sustainable is a crucial part in our operations, and we are eager to embed our values to the people we work with (community) and other organizations, especially in our industry. Some areas of focus for our community/industry are anti-corruption and knowledge sharing.[103-1] Kiroyan Partners is committed to conducting its business and operations on good corporate governance and ethical business practices. Our policies and internal values require our people, business partners including clients, and suppliers to comply with the anti-corruption laws in every base of our businesses that adhere to the national law and anti-corruption principles. 21 KP has a set of company policies related to anti-corruption stipulated in Chapter VIII Article 32 on Contract Termination. The article states that anyone who commits and acts against the law or receives gratification and/or involved in bribery will have his/her contract terminated immediately.[103-2] The concept of personal integrity and the importance of this issue is consistently communicated to all staffs. Each new employee as well as interns are always introduced to the concept of integrity. For each new hire and intern that we welcome, our Board of Directors takes the lead in holding an induction session in which our business principles and stance on ethics, including anti-corruption, are introduced and discussed at length.[205-2] In the past year, we worked with a third-party firm Mazar Indonesia to conduct a financial audit. [103-3] The assessment confirmed that throughout 2019 there have not been any cases, experiences, or indications of business and contract irregularities.[205-3] This shows that the continuous implementation of our communication method on the issue has proven to be invaluable for preserving the personal integrity among our staffs. Aside from leading by examples, we also think it is important to share our values and knowledge External knowledge sharing programs conducted 7 programs to the younger generations in Indonesia and other organizations in our sector. We have been Equivalent to actively participating in various knowledge Estimated revenue from voluntary-based programs IDR 759 million sharing activities to allow the younger generation to learn from our knowledge and experience, and to promote the company’s Communications A local non-profit experiences in promoting ethical business Evaluation and Advisory organization that practices to the community or public at large. for Digital advocates for business These activities serve as platforms for our Communications Strategy integrity, sustainability, and capacity building 3 projects employees and Kiroyan Partners as a company Pro bono Reputation Survey 22 for youth and SMEs to share their relevant knowledge to the projects Equivalent to community and industry. An international nonIDR 470.5 million Recommendations based profit organization that We give the opportunity for our employees to on Communication audit advocates for share their knowledge through various types of and Market Analysis sustainability and knowledge sharing programs, including proyouth development bono projects, by-lined writing, and knowledge sharing sessions for undergraduate students. The opportunity allows our employees to share 9 articles their knowledge to the community during Local trade media on published PR Indonesia working hours.[103-2] Monthly by-lined articles public relations and Magazine Equivalent to communication IDR 157.5 million In total, our company has executed seven knowledge sharing programs equivalent to IDR 7 articles 759 million. The programs have reached both Op-ed published Op-ed articles and National and local and international organizations and media, development for pitching international media Equivalent to media and also allowed us to provide assistance to IDR 105 million various sectors including local and international non-profit organizations, universities, and students. The broad array of industries and Internship opportunity sectors we touched further solidifies our Mentoring Undergraduate 7 interns and direct mentoring with achievement and continuous effort to the interns students mentored assigned consultants promotion of ethical and sustainability values and practices. This further boosts our 1 mentoring session with 2 confidence to provide consistent social Swiss-German Knowledge sharing on lecturers in contribution through what we do best: An Indonesian-based University (SGU) communication industry attendance knowledge sharing programs and pro bono international university mentoring situations and practices assistance relevant to our company’s Equivalent to expertise.[103-3] IDR 26 million 23 This page is intentionally left blank. 25 Kiroyan Partners (KP) is a research-based public affairs in conventional and digital media (media relations and and strategic communications consulting firm that campaign), political risk advisory, issue management, aspires to build strong reputations and solve challenges social responsibility, and executive training. between businesses and their stakeholders by applying ethical, responsible communications practices.[102-1][102-2] We have served clients that come from various background and industry sectors. Our services in 2019 Through a comprehensive and multidisciplinary were acquired by clients from non-for profit, law, approach, we help our clients fully grasp stakeholder extractive, SOEs, plantation, manufacturing, tourism, expectations and societal concerns to develop narratives FMCG, and technology companies. Our clients are mostly and communication strategies designed to foster from private sectors, SOEs, non-profit organizations and support from stakeholders and the society. public institutions. Our Company provides services across six areas, namely The full extent of detailed services that we provide can corporate communications, political risk advisory, issue be viewed in our website. management, social responsibility, conventional and digital media, and executive training. As per December 4, 2019, our President Director Anton Rizki has formally resigned from his position. Facing the In 2019, Kiroyan Partners has provided clients with change, our Executive Chairman, Noke Kiroyan has corporate communications services the most, consisting appointed our Director Verlyana V. Hitipeuw as Interim of communication audit, communication evaluation, President Director to lead the company until an communication strategy development and crisis executive decision could be make through the communication guideline development. Aside from Shareholder meeting. As such, this report is developed corporate communication, KP has also provide services under Verlyana’s guidance and approval.[102-10] The Company is a private limited company or At the close of 2019, Kiroyan Partners had a a “Perseroan Terbatas Tertutup” according to workforce with a total of 23 employees who the Indonesian Law. are all based in the office in Jakarta. The following is the breakdown of ownership by The gender breakdown of Kiroyan Partners’ employees in shareholders as of December 2019:[102-5] 2019 was 12 females and 11 males. Throughout the year, the turnover number was recorded at 9, with six male employees and three female employees. The turnover 26 2% was compensated with the hiring of 5 new employees, with four female and one male employees.[102-7][102-8] 4% 5% 17% 51% 21% Noke Kiroyan, President Commissioner Theresia Hudy Handayani Kiroyan, Commissioner Moetaryanto Poerwoaminoto, Commissioner Natasha Christiane Kiroyan, Shareholder Anton Rizki Sulaiman, Shareholder Verlyana Virgousa Hitipeuw, Director The operation of Kiroyan Partners in Jakarta In 2019, Kiroyan Partners was an active is supported by a number of suppliers and member of 9 (nine) industry associations.[102service providers based locally throughout 13] Indonesia.[102-9] • Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KADIN) During 2019, we procured the services from six suppliers Indonesia, since 2007; that were located in Jakarta. The estimated monetary • International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), since value of payments made to suppliers has a range from 27 2007; IDR 4 million to IDR 409 million. Our suppliers include: • Indonesia-Australia Business Council (IABC), since • Research institutions or research firms to support 2007; some of the company’s research-based service for • German-Indonesian Chamber of Industry and our clients; Commerce (EKONID), since 2007; • Media monitoring companies, that help us track the • Indonesia Business Links (IBL), since 2007; news for our clients; • British Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia • Graphic designers; and (BritCham), since 2015; and • Digital printing companies. • Indonesian French Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IFCC), since 2019. We have also used 17 vendors to provide project needs or to support the operations of our Company. Services that Additionally, Kiroyan Partners has been an active we procured from vendors differ from those provided by supporter of UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008 by suppliers in that the services ended merely as our actively promoting the ten principles of the Global consumption goods without being further utilized for our Compact in respects to human rights, labor rights, the services to clients. Our vendors in 2019 include florists, protection of the environment and anti-corruption. KP software and hardware companies, stationery stores, had been developing its COPs since 2008 to 2017, and internet network provider, paper recycling company, and has been developing its Sustainability Report (SR) from tax auditors. 2018 as a report of our efforts in implementing these ten principles in our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of • “Good” is Not Good Enough ― The team at KP must excel 28 corporate behavior and decision-making. These are made in all the tasks conducted, especially in our areas of explicit through a set of principles that were developed in 2008 expertise. and has guided our work at Kiroyan Partners ever since.[102-16] • Professionalism ― The KP team adheres to strict Our principles, made available to our stakeholders in our professionalism at all times. website, are: • Sustainable Client Relationship ― Clients are valued as business partners with long-term relationships based on • Ethics and Social Responsibility ― The team at KP always mutual trust and respect. conduct business according to its strict code of ethics and social responsibility. Exposure to Kiroyan Partners’ values, principles, standards, and • Personal Integrity ― All clients and stakeholders of KP are norms of behavior is provided during the induction process of treated with respect and fairness. new employees and interns. Moreover, the company’s principles • Trust ― It is essential for the firm, team members, and are actively promoted by the management as well as the team business partners to trust one another. Without trust, KP members itself. The management continually communicates the cannot address its clients’ needs effectively. company’s core values through internal meetings, regular trainings for employees, and knowledge sharing sessions. The • Respect ― Throughout all the company’s operations, no Managing Director is responsible for the good enforcement of matter how big or small, the team at KP treats everyone the company’s principles by all members of the organization. with respect. • Individual Excellence ― By constantly working to enhance Kiroyan Partners is fully committed to upholding and the team members’ knowledge and skills, KP is able to maintaining these principles especially when working with our deliver optimal results and maximum value to the clients. clients. We always ensure that our clients have mutual understanding of the importance of ethics and social • Teamwork ― Collaboration is key. In KP’s experience, responsibility, and we will not serve clients who disregard our teamwork produces far stronger results than individual values, principles and commitment to sustainability. processes. Kiroyan Partners is committed to the implementation of good corporate governance (GCG) principles. The company’s corporate governance framework is based on a hierarchy of bodies and appointments as stipulated by Law 40/2007. KP’s corporate governance framework per December 31, 2019:[102-18] 29 30 31 Kiroyan Partners defines stakeholder as “any group or individual who can affect or is affected by the achievement of an organization’s purpose” (Freeman, 2008). Based on the aforementioned definition, we conducted stakeholder mapping to identify all of our key stakeholders. Our identification method is a characteristically collective process that stems from our understanding of all our departments and their interactions with their respective stakeholders in daily operations. Based on this understanding we develop a list of relevant group and organizations. Internal workshop involving all our company Based on this discussion and mapping process, below departments through group discussion. is the list of our key stakeholder groups:[102-40][102-42] We held a company meeting, where we invite • Shareholders employees as representatives of each department, • Employees i.e. consulting, administration, management. The • Clients discussion was moderated by KP Sustainability Reporting team that helped participants to convey • Selected media outlets their opinion and thoughts on their respective • Selected government agencies stakeholders. • Suppliers and vendors, depending on certain projects, may include non-governmental organizations, think-tanks, academics and research institutions. To engage our internal stakeholders, Kiroyan Partners has put As a service firm, clients are considered as our major in place several activities to keep them well-informed of KP stakeholders. Hence, their feedbacks are gathered through business operations and updates, as well as means to gather interactions on a day-to-day basis during projects. For each stakeholders’ concerns and feedbacks. These activities include: project, a Project Manager is appointed to make sure that client’s needs and expectations are properly met. Meanwhile, • Weekly project review, where all concerns and challenges important issues and complaints from clients are handled faced by employees can be heard and discussed. directly by the top management. • “Lessons learned” session, which is organized a certain When projects are completed, we always try to identify rooms project ended, where all team members sit together to for improvements by seeking feedbacks from clients regarding 32 discuss what went well and what could be improved from the service they received. For instance, an evaluation the said project implementation and relevant company questionnaire will be distributed to participants in training operational issues. This is carried out as part of project projects with the purpose to receive their inputs and asses closing process. This year, 15 lessons learned sessions their satisfaction rate. were organized. • Open-door management policy by Directors, aimed to Additionally, started in 2018, we released a client satisfaction provide accessibility for employees to interact and convey survey to further obtain constructive inputs and assessment of aspirations to company’s top management. our service deliveries. In 2019, a total of 12 surveys were sent throughout the year with 3 responses received. Additionally, • Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General we conducted in-depth interviews with clients and discussions Meeting with shareholders. This year, the Annual General with Kiroyan Partners’ Project Managers or Assistant Project Meeting were held in January and March, and the Managers regarding feedbacks or concerns they might have in Extraordinary General Meeting was organized in 2019. As a result, below are the key topics and concerns raised: November. • This year, we conducted in-depth interviews and Focus Group Discussions for the development of this Sustainability Report. Below are the key topics and concerns raised: ▪ Service quality ▪ Payment timeliness ▪ Integrity ▪ Professionality • : ▪ Customers’ privacy and confidentiality ▪ Anti-corruption ▪ Well-being ▪ Environment ▪ Being leaders on specific ▪ Employee-management ▪ Diversity and gender services relations inclusion ▪ Business growth ▪ Talent development ▪ Responsible labor practices ▪ Benefits ▪ Environment ▪ Environmental awareness * depending on certain projects, this category may include non-governmental organizations, think-tanks, academics and research institutions. NOTES: • Every year KP conducts a financial audit. In 2019, the audit was done by Mazar Total number of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 1 Indonesia. Total percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 25% • The data for 2018 is not included because the Total number of significant risks related to corruption identified through risk GRI was not included in our 2018 0 Sustainability Report. assessment 34 NOTES: • Anti-corruption policies and procedures are described in the company's Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Communication of anti-corruption policies and procedures • Clauses related to anti-corruption are Total governance body members 4 2 included within the General Terms and Total governance body members by percentage 100% 100% Conditions for Suppliers. Total number of employees who have received communication in the • Anti-Corruption is covered during the HR 5 5 Induction presentation. Employees are year of the report required to understand the Code of Conduct Total percentage of employees who have received communication in as part of the HR Induction. Therefore, the 23% 22% the year of the report communication and training were only Total number of employees who have received communication during conducted in the year the employees enter 22 23 the company. their time in KP Total percentage of employees who have received communication 100% 100% during their time in KP Business partners 0 0 Business partners by percentage 0% 0% Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Total number of governance body members 4 2 Total percentage of governance body members 100% 100% Total number of employees who have received training in the year of 5 5 the report Total percentage of employees who have received training in the year 23% 22% of the report Total number of employees who have received training during their 22 23 time in KP Total percentage of employees who have received training during their 100% 100% time in KP NOTES: There were no legal cases regarding corruption brought against Kiroyan Partners or its employees during reporting period. Total number of confirmed incidents of corruption 0 0 Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were 0 0 dismissed or disciplined for corruption Total number of confirmed incidents which contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to 0 0 corruption Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the 0 0 outcomes of such cases 35 NOTES: The weight of non-renewable materials map and other chemicals are no longer included considering the insignificant amount we use Non-renewable materials used yearly. Plastic 16 kg 15 kg Map 6 kg Other chemicals (glass cleaner) 5.28 l Renewable materials used Printing materials 1,600 kg 1,981 kg NOTES: For percentage calculation of recycled input materials used, the following formula is to be used: Total recycled input material used 0% 0% Total recycled input Percentage of materials used recycled input = X 100 material used Total input materials used NOTES: For percentage calculation of reclaimed products and their packaging material, the following formula is to be used: Total reclaimed products and their packaging materials 0% 0% Percentage of Products and their reclaimed packaging materials products and reclaimed within the their reporting period X 100 packaging = Products sold within materials the reporting period Total fuel consumption within the organization from None None non-renewable resources (A) Total fuel consumption within the organization from None None renewable resources (B) Total electricity, heating, cooling and steam purchased for consumption (C) Electricity consumption 13,707.00 kWh 13,263.20 kWh Cooling consumption None None Total electricity, heating, cooling and steam sold (D) None None Total energy consumption within Kiroyan Partners 36 13,707.00 kWh 13,263.20 kWh (A + B + C D) Standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools used: • The data of our electricity consumption was taken from the calculations the building conducted on our electricity use. • The data for our cooling consumption could not be found as the energy used are calculated together for the whole building. Source of the conversion factors used: No conversion was made. Total number and rates of new Total New Hiring Rate Total Turnover Total New Hiring Rate Total Turnover employee hires and employee Hires (%) Turnover Rate (%) Hires (%) Turnover Rate (%) turnover by age group and gender TOTAL 5 23% 3 14% 5 22% 9 39% Male 1 20% 1 33% 1 4% 6 26% Female 4 80% 2 67% 4 17% 3 13% Age <30 1 20% 1 33% 4 17% 4 17% Age 30-50 4 80% 2 67% 1 4% 5 22% Age >50 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% Local 5 100% 3 100% 5 100% 9 100% Non-local 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% NOTES: The benefits apply to all KP permanent employees. The locations of operations only consist of Jakarta. BPJS BPJS Life insurance Ketenagakerjaan Ketenagakerjaan BPJS Kesehatan and BPJS Kesehatan and Health insurance AVIVA AVIVA Disability and invalidity coverage N/A N/A 90 calendar days / 90 calendar days / Parental leave 45 working days 45 working days Retirement provision 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Only for Board of Only for Board of Stock ownership Directors Directors • Taxi vouchers for • Taxi vouchers for 37 overtime overtime • Flexible work • Flexible work hours hours Others • Up to 17.5 annual • Up to 17.5 annual leave leave • Compensation • Compensation leave leave • Sick leave • Sick leave NOTES: • This disclosure was not reported in 2018 sustainability report. Male Female Ratio • There is no employees that request for parental leave in 2019. Total number of employees entitled to parental leave 0 0 1:1 • For return to work rate, the following formula Total number of employees took parental leave 0 0 1:1 is to be used: Total number of employees returned to work after 0 0 1:1 Total number of parental leave ended employees that did Total number of employees returned to work after return to work parental leave ended, that were still employed 12 0 0 1:1 after parental leave Return to work = months after return to work rate Total number of X 100 employees due to Return to work rate of employees that took parental 0 0 1:1 return to work leave after taking parental leave Retention rate of employees that took parental leave 0 0 1:1 • For retention rates, the following formula is to be used: Total number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave Retention rate = X 100 Total number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave Minimum number of weeks’ notice provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation of significant 1-2 weeks 1-2 weeks operational changes that could substantially affect them Average hours of training per year per employee Average training time by gender Male 16 to 24 hours 15 hours Female 16 to 24 hours 69 hours Average training time by employee category Managers and above 16 to 24 hours 16 hours 38 Consultants 16 to 24 hours 45 hours Administration Team 16 to 24 hours 0 hours NOTES: Training program includes internal training courses, funding support for external training or education, provision of sabbatical periods with Management and Leadership guaranteed return to employment. Leadership Philosophy, Leadership Training and Directorship Scope of training Certification Level Fundamental for Women, Leadership Fundamentals Number of training given 1 programs 11 programs Technical Knowledge Research Foundations, Project Management Fundamentals, Digital Marketing, Infographic Business Report Writing, Public Design, Marketing, Presentation Skill, Relations, Storytelling For Designers, Scope of training Public Speaking, Budgeting Stakeholder Engagement, Digital Technique Media Foundations, Business Development, Marketing Communications, Media Relations Number of training given 6 programs 17 programs Language Scope of training Writing Class None Number of training given 2 programs None Professional Development Critical Thinking, Problem Solving Techniques, Managing Stress, Scope of training None Teamwork, Interpersonal Communication, Business Etiquette Number of training given None 10 programs NOTES: Data applies for KP National permanent employees. Employees on probation, former employees and temporary employees are able to request for their performance review should Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by they are interested. gender and employee category Gender Male 100% 100% Female 73% 100% Employee category Managers and above 100% 100% Consultants 100% 100% Analyst None 100% Administration Team 40% 100% 39 Total number and percentage of individuals within governance bodies, by gender and age group Total percentage (BoD, BoC, Consultant, Admin) Total 25 person / 100% 27 person / 100% Male 13 person / 62% 14 person / 50% Female 11 person / 38% 13 person / 50% Age <30 7 person / 34% 10 person / 42% Age 30-50 13 person / 52% 13 person / 50% Age >50 5 person / 14% 4 person / 8% Board of Directors Total 3 person / 100% 2 person / 100% Male 2 person / 67% 1 person / 50% Female 1 person / 33% 1 person / 50% Age <30 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Age 30-50 2 person / 67% 2 person / 100% Age >50 1 person / 33% 0 person / 0% Board of Commissioners Total 3 person / 100% 3 person / 100% Male 2 person / 67% 2 person / 67% Female 1 person / 33% 1 person / 33% Age <30 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Age 30-50 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Age >50 3 person / 100% 3 person / 100% Total number and percentage of employees per employee category, by gender and age group Senior Consultants Total 5 person / 100% 6 person / 100% Male 3 person / 60% 3 person / 50% Female 2 person / 40% 3 person / 50% Age <30 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Age 30-50 5 person / 100% 6 person / 100% Age >50 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Consultants Total 5 person / 100% 9 person / 100% 40 Male 3 person / 60% 6 person / 67% Female 2 person / 40% 3 person / 33% Age <30 5 person / 100% 7 person / 77% Age 30-50 0 person / 0% 2 person / 23% Age >50 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Analysts Total 1 person / 100% 2 person / 100% Male 1 person / 100% 0 person / 0% Female 0 person / 0% 2 person/100% Age <30 1 person / 100% 2 person / 100% Age 30-50 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Age >50 0 person / 0% 0 person / 0% Administration Total 7 person / 100% 5 person / 100% Male 2 person / 29% 2 person / 50% Female 5 person / 71% 3 person / 50% Age <30 0 person / 0% 1 person / 25% Age 30-50 6 person / 86% 3 person / 50% Age >50 1 person / 14% 1 person / 25% Ratio of remuneration of women to men by employee category Women:Men Board of Directors Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 Ratio of remuneration of women to men by employee category Women:Men Board of Commissioners Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 Senior Consultants Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 Consultants Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 Analysts 41 Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 Administration Basic salary 1:1 1:1 Remuneration 1:1 1:1 NOTES: This disclosure was not reported in 2018 sustainability report. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting None period Status of the incidents and actions taken Incidents reviewed by the organizations None Remediation plans being implemented None Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed None through routine internal management process Incident no longer subject to action None NOTES: This disclosure was not reported in 2018 sustainability report. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy Complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the None organization Complaints from regulatory bodies None Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting None period Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 25 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 25 102-3 Location of headquarters Jakarta 102-4 Location of operations The company only operates in Jakarta, Indonesia 42 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 26 102-6 Markets Served Our services are offered to Indonesian and International companies/organizations, with a myriad range of sectors including mining, development, technology, FMCG, government affairs to banking. See our website for further detail. 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 26 See our website for further detail. 2019 revenue: IDR 9,354,934,419 2019 total capitalization: IDR 1,370,279,960 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 26 102-9 Supply Chain Page 27 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Page 25 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle of approach Not applicable, as we are a service company that does not pose any risk of serious or irreversible environmental damage. 102-12 External initiatives Page 3 102-13 Memberships of associations Page 27 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Page 28 behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure Page 29 The Board of Director is responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social topics. Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 31 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not applicable. Employees in our company have not established a trade union to bargain with, so we have a Company Regulation instead. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 31 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 32 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 32 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial None. statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Page 6-8 43 102-47 List of material topics Page 8 102-48 Restatements of information None. 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 7 102-50 Reporting period Page 3 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 3 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Page 3 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Page 3 standards 102-55 GRI content index Page 42-44 102-56 External assurance The cost of external assurance reporting would be significant for KP, given the range of material aspects or topics being addressed as well as the specialized nature of some of these material topics. This is the second year that the Company is reporting against the GRI Standards, and in support of ongoing improvement in reporting, the Company may consider the implementation of external assurance should the cost deemed reasonable. GRI 205 Anti205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Page 34 corruption corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiPage 21 and 34 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Page 21 and 35 taken GRI 301 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 19 and 35 301-2 Recycled input materials used Page 35 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Page 35 materials GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 19 and 36 44 GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover Page 36 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Page 12 and 37 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Page 11 and 37 GRI 402 Labor/ 402-1 Minimum Notice Periods Regarding Page 38 Management Operational Changes Relations GRI 404 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Page 38 Education employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Page 14 and 38 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Page 39 performance and career development reviews GRI 405 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Page 15 and 39-40 Equal Opportunity employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Page 15 and 40-41 women to men GRI 406 Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Page 15 and 41 discrimination actions taken GRI 418 Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Page 17 and 41 Privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data @Pause08 @biancoblue @freepik @rawpixel.com @xnimrodx @freepik @Smasicons @TheSimplyDay @Eucalyp @sewcream @zakiroff2000 from flaticon.com. @pressfoto @wavebreakmedia_micro from freepik.com and our own private collection. Your social license expert
