Inspiring trust for a more resilient world. The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 We are the business improvement company that enables organizations to turn standards of best practice into habits of excellence. For more than a century we have been challenging mediocrity and complacency to help embed excellence into the way people and products work. In this report the ‘Company’ refers to The British Standards Institution, a Royal Charter Company, Companies House number ZC000202, which is the parent company for the financial statements. ‘BSI’, ‘BSI Group’ or ‘Group’ means the Company and its subsidiaries. The BSI logo, ‘Kitemark™’, the ‘Kitemark™’ device, ‘Supply Chain Solutions™’ and ‘Entropy Software™’ are registered trademarks of The British Standards Institution in the UK and are registered, or in the process of registration, in other jurisdictions. Throughout this report the word ‘underlying’ is defined as ‘before exceptional items and excluding the effects of material disposals’. Our purpose Inspiring trust for a more resilient world. Our values Integrity Respect Expertise Our mission To share knowledge, innovation and best practice to help people and organizations realize their potential and make excellence a habit. Our excellence behaviours Client centric Agile Collaborative Contents Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 01 Contents 49 Introduction by the Chairman Consolidated financial statements 02 At a glance 50 Board of Directors 80 Independent auditors’ report 04 Highlights of 2019 52 Group Executive 87 Consolidated income statement 05 Chairman's statement 54 Corporate governance report 88 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 08 Our business model 59 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in 89 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 12 Our strategic objectives respect of the financial statements 90 Consolidated balance sheet 13 Key performance indicators 60 Report of the Audit Committee 91 Consolidated statement of cash flows 18 Chief Executive’s review 64 Report of the Nominations Committee 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23 Business review 66 Directors’ remuneration report 27 Principal risks and uncertainties 76 Directors’ report Parent company financial statements 32 Standards review 134 Independent auditors’ report 36 Financial review 139 Parent company balance sheet 41 Sustainability review 140 Parent company statement of changes in equity 141 Notes to the parent company financial statements bsigroup.com 01 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements At a glance Our business is enabling others to perform better Our markets and opportunities We provide a unique combination of complementary services and solutions, managed through four global business streams. Knowledge Assurance Services Regulatory Services Consulting Services The core of our business is Independent assessment Independent assessment To experience real long-term the knowledge that we create of the conformity of a process of the conformity of a process benefits, our clients need to and impart to our clients as or product to a particular or product, in the Medical ensure ongoing compliance to services or information solutions. standard provides trust and Devices industry, to a particular standards, regulations and best We continue to build our ensures that our clients standard ensures that our practice so that it becomes an reputation, shaping standards perform in an excellent clients perform in an excellent embedded habit. We provide at national, regional and way. We train our clients in way and that patients worldwide consultancy services and international levels and world‑class implementation may receive the correct level of differentiated management delivering standardization and auditing techniques to medical care. tools to facilitate this process. services and technical ensure they maximize the assistance projects worldwide. benefits of our standards. Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue £66.5m £283.0m £119.4m £79.2m 2018: £65.2m 2018: £277.4m 2018: £92.7m 2018: £76.6m Read more on page 23 Read more on page 24 Read more on page 25 Read more on page 26 Our sectors We operate across many sectors but focus on our areas of specialization. Healthcare Food and Retail Built Environment Aerospace and Automotive For some years we have We provide food-specific Our Built Environment We have a long history of been market leaders in certification solutions for expertise is based on many leadership in the assurance of the certification of medical our clients in this expanding years of working with the the Aerospace and Automotive device systems and products. sector as well as satisfying construction industry to industries and continue to We have complemented this their general requirements, develop and implement consolidate our position as they with training courses and led by our Food Centre of standards. We are at the develop new requirements to standards development and Excellence. This expertise forefront of smart city face their future challenges. are expanding our offering continues through the developments and the into pharmaceuticals and retail supply chain. globalization of Building hospital services. Information Modelling (BIM). 02 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Imparting our global expertise worldwide BSI is an integrated global enterprise, able to serve clients from 84 offices in 31 countries across the world. Our clients range from globally recognized brands to small local companies in 195 countries across a range of industries. 53% of the Fortune 500 83% of the FTSE 100 81% of the Nikkei 225 84,000 clients across a wide range of industries Over Over 33,000 200,000 225,000 100% standards offered to delegates trained days certifying management systems of profit reinvested the market in the business bsigroup.com 03 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Highlights of 2019 Another year of significant investment Revenue Underlying operating profit £548.1m +7% £58.3m -6% 2018: £511.9m 2018: £61.8m Operating profit Cash and deposits £54.7m -3% £85.1m -2% 2018: £56.5m 2018: £86.8m Net asset value Average employees £207.4m +16% 5,089 +6% 2018: £178.3m 2018: 4,784 • Strong global performance in year of significant investment • Record underlying revenue for the twentieth consecutive year • Good levels of underlying profit delivered organically and through acquisitions • The implementation of our strategy continues as planned 04 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Chairman's statement TRUST Inspiring for a more resilient world As I reflect back over my first year as Chairman of BSI, I am pleased to report that my early impressions, of a well-run business with huge potential, proved to be correct. 2019 was the 118th year in the history of this great Institution and, once again, the business reported higher revenues than ever before. Our substantial investment programme, in the people and fabric of the business, continued in 2019, taking profits slightly below their record 2018 levels, but ensuring a resilience that allows us to face the future with confidence and in robust financial health. In 2019, we took the decision to review the purpose and mission of BSI to build on our great heritage in the context of the current economic, political and social climate, and to extend our strategic planning horizon from three to five years, permitting us to focus and adapt our current strategy for a longer-term horizon. We defined our purpose as ‘inspiring trust for a more resilient world’ and we continued to engage with all our stakeholders as this purpose involves and impacts everyone from our clients to society in general. Trust remains at the heart of everything we do at BSI and underpins our mission ‘to share knowledge, innovation and best practice to help people and organizations realize their potential and make excellence a habit’. ‘In 2019, we took the decision to review the purpose and mission of John Hirst, Chairman BSI to build on our great heritage.' bsigroup.com 05 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chairman's statement continued This purpose and mission provide the platform upon Every year, we seek to strike a careful balance between which we manage our business on a day-to-day basis. managing our finances with proper near-term caution 2019 was the first full year in which we were managed and making the planned investments required to along our new structural lines, based on four global continue to secure our longer-term market relevance. business streams. The strategic and operational investments we made It was particularly pleasing to have this new structure during 2019 built on those we made in prior years to vindicated by the strong financial performance, with no keep BSI at the forefront of standards making, such significant disruption created despite the considerable that our vital role in the global standards community scale of the change. This refocused structure reflects is as strong as it has ever been. Those investments our increasing requirement to provide our wide range have also deepened our sector and domain knowledge of services and solutions to our clients on a global basis. and increased the effectiveness with which we deliver Local delivery from our extensive network of offices the benefits of that knowledge to our clients everywhere. will ensure that all clients, regardless of location or In consequence, our high reputation continues to be size, will continue to benefit from the high level of maintained and the power of our brand continues to service we aim to deliver. strengthen. Regardless of the current uncertainties around the precise nature of the UK’s future relationship with the rest of the world, I am delighted to see that ‘Every year, we seek to strike BSI, in our role as the UK’s National Standards Body, has a careful balance between continued to cement its position as part of European and global standard setting and uses its expertise to managing our finances with proper remain an influential collaborator and innovator in this vital area. near-term caution and making the The Board is conscious that the achievements of the investments required to secure our National Standards Body and the commercial business longer-term relevance.' of BSI were made possible by the sustained investments we have made for many successive years, and will continue to make, in our richly diverse and talented global team; As I wrote last year, this reorganization came at an in the effectiveness and efficiency of our operating interesting time in our domestic market, and the processes; and in the strategic initiatives necessary to negotiations to end the UK’s membership of the ensure that we retain the resilience to continue to meet European Union meandered throughout 2019 without our stakeholders’ evolving needs. dispelling the uncertainty that had gripped the market ever since the referendum in 2016. It is to be hoped As a Royal Charter Company with no shareholders that the strong mandate given to the incoming and therefore no stock exchange listing, BSI is not government in the December 2019 General Election required to apply the UK Corporate Governance Code. will permit some sense of closure, stabilizing the UK However, consistent with our unique status as the UK economy and the ultimate, new, relationships between National Standards Body and our commitment to our the UK and the European Union and rest of the world. members and other stakeholders, we nevertheless Despite concerns about possible trade wars between apply the principles of the Code where appropriate some of the larger nations and fears early in the year and, in doing so, have established internal governance that a global recession may be imminent, the global processes that reflect best practice in business today. economy actually performed better than expected The ultimate accountability for the governance of BSI lies during 2019 and BSI benefited from strong trading with our widely experienced Board of Directors, which across its portfolio of businesses to end the year as we has a majority of Non-Executive Directors. The Board started it, in good financial health. Underlying revenue is supported by Audit, Remuneration, Nominations increased, for the twentieth consecutive year, by 7% and Sustainability Committees, which are chaired to £548.1m. Underlying operating profit, depressed by, and primarily consist of, Non-Executive Directors. slightly by our planned and well-executed investments These formal Committees are complemented by the in strengthening the human capital and infrastructure Standards Policy and Strategy Committee, which does of our business, fell by 6% to £58.3m but remained admirable work in gathering and distilling the views in line with our expectations. Likewise, our cash and of those interested in standards and providing valuable deposits decreased slightly, by 2% to £85.1m, but advice to the Board. Underpinning this governance remain more than adequate to finance our strategic framework, our structure of internal controls and, indeed, plan and any future acquisitions of a similar size to everything that every BSI employee does, wherever those concluded in recent times. they do it, is the BSI Code of Business Ethics. It sets the ethical values and high standards of integrity that apply to every aspect of the way that we work. 06 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Q&A Since I became Chairman of BSI on 1 January 2019, I have been fortunate that the Board of Directors has remained very stable. On 1 May 2019, I was delighted to welcome Ian Lobley to the Board as Non-Executive Director. Ian is a Managing Partner at 3i Group PLC, the FTSE 100 international investor, focused on mid-market private equity and infrastructure. Our stakeholders will benefit from the knowledge he has accumulated across many sectors, as well as his global commercial experience. After nine years as a Non-Executive Director and four as Senior Independent Director, Lucinda Riches, in accordance with best practice, will not offer herself for with the Chairman re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2020. I would like to thank Lucinda for her outstanding service to BSI. The Board will miss her shrewd insights and wise counsel. In my first year as Chairman, I have had many Q: Were there any surprises opportunities to work with the BSI Executive team in your first full year at BSI? and other employees across the business and have been privileged to visit our operations in the US, India Only positive surprises really. I wrote last year that we and the Netherlands, as well as our UK businesses in have a unique business, a combination of public and Chiswick, Milton Keynes and Hemel Hempstead. I have national purpose, well run with great integrity by been struck by the deep knowledge of the business dedicated and knowledgeable people. As I have dug shown by our team at these locations and elsewhere, deeper into the business, I think the true scale of the and the dedication and integrity with which they go opportunities open to BSI have become apparent to about serving our clients across the world. They, and me. Deservedly, we have a great brand and are well the very many BSI Committee Members and Subscribing trusted by our clients and other stakeholders. I am Members, are the heart of BSI. Without them BSI could extremely excited to work with the Board and the not still be one of the most prominent and respected employees to continue to justify that trust. standards bodies in the world today. I look forward to working with them all throughout my tenure as Q: Have you changed Chairman, as we continue to build on the strong foundations and deep history of the Institution. the strategy of BSI? Our strategy is reviewed and confirmed by the Board every year. It evolves over time as the world changes ‘I have been struck by the deep and new opportunities become apparent. 2019 was no different and readers of this Annual Report will see no knowledge of the business shown fundamental changes to the strategy we described last by our team and the dedication and year, merely slight refocusing. In 2019 we did decide to extend our strategic planning horizon from three to integrity with which they go about five years, allowing us to take a longer-term view of serving our clients across the world.' our future. As we begin our 119th year, the Board is confident Q: What are your main areas that 2020 will be another year in which, together with of focus in 2020? all of our stakeholders, we can look forward to both With the strategic plan firmly in place, I, and the rest capitalizing on our profound strength and continuing of my Board colleagues, will continue to work with to invest in building the capacity to deliver yet more Executive management on its implementation. We will for all those who depend on BSI, all around the world, review progress regularly and continue to refine it as and to continue to earn the trust they place in us. necessary. We will support management plans to ensure that BSI remains a great place to work, where people can build their careers, free from discrimination of any kind. We will review and improve our stakeholder engagement, so that BSI retains its relevance now John Hirst and into the future. Chairman 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 07 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our business model Our value proposition Through the passion and expertise of our people, we embed excellence in organizations across the globe to improve business performance and resilience. Our inputs Our streams Our people …a specialized combination of A talented, diverse workforce that brings services and solutions competitive advantage and differentiation from our competitors. Read more on page 2 5,089 average employees Knowledge Assurance Services Our expertise For well over a century we have developed our skills and demonstrated our core values to ensure that Operational our clients work with us and keep working with us. Regulatory Consulting Resilience Services Services 118 years in operation Information Our sectors Resilience Our services and solutions We provide a unique offering to our clients that helps to embed excellence and develop resilience …driving Organizational Resilience in their organizations. across your business Supply Chain Resilience 84,000 Read more on page 2 clients worldwide Healthcare Our delivery network Food and Retail Our network of 84 offices in 31 countries allows us to form a partnership with our clients, large Built Environment and small, wherever they are located. 195 countries serviced Aerospace and Automotive All other sectors Our method Shape Share We provide a unique offering, designed to Together with independent We share our standards experts, we tackle the issues and guidance documents align with the steps individual clients need to of today and tomorrow by in multiple formats for understand best practice, how to achieve this and shaping standards of excellence organizational efficiency. how to ensure that it remains an ongoing habit. across products, processes and behaviours. 08 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Our stakeholders Our employees, Our clients, contractors and consumers and pensioners suppliers Our standards Our members makers and developers y Inte ct gri spe Re t Inspiring trust Our Our local accreditation communities bodies and regulators Expertise Labour and environmental Governments organizations around the world globally Our professional bodies and academia Embed Assess Support Our tutors and consultants Our assessors measure Post-assessment we continue transfer the knowledge and products or processes against to support our clients with skills clients need to embed a particular standard, so that the services and solutions best practice in their clients can improve their they need for continual organizations. organizations and promote improvement. themselves with confidence. bsigroup.com 09 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Case study Sustainable built environments Inspiring trust in smart cities Pioneering cities across Asia Pacific are striving to improve the wellbeing of their communities, while tackling rapid urbanization and resource management, by creating smarter ecosystems. The BSI Kitemark for smart cities and communities validates a city’s commitment to adopt a citizen-centric approach, helping the population thrive and making it more attractive to inward investment. Being accredited to ISO 37106 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) gives cities evidence of success in their strategic approach to manage resource better, making an urban environment more liveable, sustainable and productive. 10 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 'Organizations need to have the vision to go digital and embrace new ways of delivering and operating buildings, infrastructure and cities. The result will be a more profitable, resilient and agile industry and a more sustainable built environment.' Andy Butterfield, Managing Director, Global Built Environment bsigroup.com 11 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our strategic objectives Our strategic vision To be the business improvement partner of choice. During 2019, we refocused our strategic objectives to cover a longer five-year period to the end of 2024. Our strategic vision remains the same, but the revised objectives provide new emphasis on how this will be achieved. Our strategic objectives Relevance Commercial excellence 1 2 Be an organization of trust, providing Deliver a world-class client experience expert, impartial opinion and service to through a partnership relationship that our clients and stakeholders; addressing offers real solutions, not just services boardroom-relevant topics while for sale. anticipating future, global needs. Link to KPIs Link to KPIs 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 Digital transformation Talent engagement 3 4 Build an effective digital platform that Develop a single team of talented, transforms our client interface through committed people and create an the digitalization of our content, improved environment where they choose data quality and more efficient processes. to make their careers with us. Link to KPIs Link to KPIs 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 Scale Find out more Read about our KPIs on pages 13 to 15 5 Be the market leader in our focus Read about our Risks on pages 27 to 29 markets, recognized as innovators Read about Sustainability on pages 41 to 47 and seen as proactive, agile and challenging by the wider world. Link to KPIs 1 2 3 4 5 6 12 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Key performance indicators Tracking progress While our key performance indicators remain unchanged, new targets have been set for each in 2024 to reflect our new strategic plan. Financial KPIs 1 2 Revenue1 Underlying operating profit2 £548.1m Target for 2020: £625m £58.3m Target for 2020: £80m Target for 2024: £800m Target for 2024: £100m 19 £548.1m 19 £58.3m 18 £511.9m 18 £61.8m Our revenue target for 2024 reflects the expected We intend our revenue growth to enhance our annual organic growth of the business, which remains profitability, on the solid base created by our current in line with growth rates achieved in the past. Our 2020 investment programme. The 2020 target will not be hit, target will not quite be met unless there are acquisitions due to the level of the necessary investments in people this year to make up the small shortfall. and systems undertaken in 2018 and 2019, but these will underpin the drive towards the higher target for 2024. Achievements in 2019 Annual revenue growth was 7% in 2019, which Achievements in 2019 comprised 4% organic growth, 1% inorganic growth Profit growth did not match revenue growth in 2019, and an increase of 2% due to changes in exchange as material investments were undertaken during the rates. This was a lower growth rate than in previous year, aimed at strengthening our management and years, due mainly to the end of the transition period systems infrastructure and sales and delivery capacity. for the new versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 However, profit was very much in line with and weaknesses in our Consulting Services stream. our expectations. Future focus Future focus Now that there is no longer the impact of the transition In the past, we have undergone ‘investment’ periods, to skew comparatives, future focus is for each of our and then leveraged these investments to generate streams to contribute towards the required growth higher profits subsequently. The period from 2018 to hit our 2024 target. To hit the 2024 target from to 2020 is another of these periods but will ensure organic revenue alone, BSI must deliver a compound that the business is ready and able to drive for its annual growth rate of just over 10%. We expect challenging revenue and profit targets in 2021 double-digit growth rates from Regulatory Services and beyond, in a more resilient fashion. and Consulting Services to compensate for lower growth in the more mature streams. Link to strategy Link to strategy 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Definitions 1 Underlying revenue at actual exchange rates. 2 Underlying operating profit at actual exchange rates. bsigroup.com 13 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Key performance indicators continued Client-facing KPIs 3 4 Net Promoter Score3 Average revenue per account4 +58 Target for 2020: +53 £5,900 Target for 2020: £6,000 Target for 2024: +53 Target for 2024: £8,000 19 +58 19 £5,900 18 +56 18 £5,700 We have achieved a high Net Promoter Score (NPS), By developing our position as thought leaders and our indicating the propensity of our clients to keep working partnerships at high levels of our key accounts in our with us and to recommend others to do so. As we grow, chosen sectors and domains, we expect our clients it is important that our NPS is not impaired in the each to do more business with us and to benefit from process. Continued high growth, coupled with a a broader range of our service offering. The average sustained high NPS, will constitute a healthy revenue per account (ARPA) will help to indicate if we 2024 position. are being successful in this objective. Achievements in 2019 Achievements in 2019 In 2019, our NPS improved still further from its high We are extremely pleased to reach our 2019 ARPA, as level in previous years, with the majority of our this has almost achieved our 2020 target already. This business streams showing increases on 2018. There are reflects the success of our strategy to work with our some areas where there is room for improvement and key accounts across our countries and sectors so that some streams where we would like to improve our they buy more of our services and solutions across response rate from clients but, generally, we are more of their subsidiaries. The investments we have pleased with our progress. made into our focus sectors, in particular, have enabled this progress. Future focus We aim to work with our clients to improve our NPS Future focus still further, particularly where it is currently We will continue to implement our strategy of key suboptimal. We wish to increase our response rates in account management across our chosen sectors, some areas and create a spread of responses that taking the buying decision higher up our clients’ more accurately mirrors the spread of clients across organizations so that our contacts at our clients our business. Of course, the mix of responses could understand the appropriate BSI portfolio of services affect our overall NPS, but this would give a better and solutions and plan their purchasing accordingly. indication of what our clients really think of us. Link to strategy Link to strategy 1, 2, 3, 5 1, 2, 3, 5 Definitions 3 Clients are asked one question: ‘How likely are you to recommend BSI’s services and solutions on a scale of zero to ten?’ If they answer nine or ten, they are classed as a promoter, seven or eight a neutral and zero to six a detractor. NPS is the percentage of promoters minus the percentage of detractors. 4 Underlying revenue divided by the number of clients in the year. 14 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Employee-facing KPIs 5 6 Employee engagement index5 Employee retention rate6 67% Target for 2020: 70% 85% Target for 2020: 91% Target for 2024: 75% Target for 2024: 90% 19 67% 19 85% 17 67% 18 87% We wish to engage our people through an inclusive, We want to make BSI a great place to work, one collaborative and rewarding culture. We aim to where we have the right talent in the right roles track our performance through regular employee and one where the work environment means that engagement surveys and by listening to our our people feel that they can develop their careers. employees for areas where we can improve our The employee retention rate gives a good indication performance as employers. that our people feel included, trusted and valued and that there is nowhere else they would rather be. Achievements in 2019 We undertake an employee engagement survey Achievements in 2019 approximately every two years, and our current score We have listened to why our employees choose to of 67% relates to the survey completed in late 2017. leave us rather than build a career at BSI. While some Since then, we have worked with our employees to listen voluntary attrition is healthy for any organization, we wish to their feedback from this survey and launched several to limit this and so have invested in career development initiatives to address their concerns in areas such initiatives to go alongside our employee engagement as My Manager, Wellbeing, Fair Deal and Giving plans. We have also streamlined our recruitment process Something Back. to ensure that more of the right people join BSI in the first place. Future focus We will implement the findings from our four initiatives Future focus in 2019 and continue to work closely with our people Ensuring that our employee retention rate remains worldwide to make BSI a great place to work, in at the right level is a never-ending process of listening line with our business strategy. In 2020, we will and providing opportunities for our employees to build undertake another employee engagement survey, work their careers at BSI rather than anywhere else. Our hard to ensure a high response rate again, and see if developing strategic resource planning process will take our actions have resonated with our employees when a longer-term view of our requirements, promote the we receive the results. right recruitment and ensure that internal promotions are given where appropriate and that training needs Link to strategy are fulfilled. 1, 4, 5 Link to strategy 1, 4, 5 Definitions Find out more 5 Percentage score given by our employees for employee engagement in our biennial survey. Read about our KPIs on pages 13 to 15 6 Percentage of employees who choose to stay with BSI during the year. 100% minus the voluntary attrition rate. Read about our Risks on pages 27 to 29 Read about Sustainability on pages 41 to 47 bsigroup.com 15 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Case study Security in healthcare Inspiring trust in medical devices The Internet of Things provides a huge opportunity for the more flexible and efficient operation of medical devices, yet cyber security is an increasing concern, as healthcare moves into the digital age. With the development of more complex and better-connected medical devices comes a greater need to incorporate stringent cyber security safeguards to avoid breaches that could put patient safety at risk. Through vulnerability and penetration assessments, medical device manufacturers can identify possible security risks. BSI is a market leader in CE Marking to the Medical Device Regulations (MDR). These new regulations include requirements to address cyber security and reduce the risk to patients that the digital age brings. 16 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 'Data can be extremely valuable. A cyber security attack in the Healthcare sector can be catastrophic for patients and have ramifications that go way beyond just the financial.' Angus Metcalfe, Managing Director, Global Healthcare bsigroup.com 17 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive’s review We are in the business of trust and RESILIENCE BSI has continued its growth and development into an integrated global enterprise, able to serve clients across the world with an expanding range of services and solutions. Summary At BSI, we try to be proactive in offering the best service possible to our clients, large and small, whichever services and solutions they buy from us and wherever they are in the world. In 2018, we completely restructured our business, recognizing a more global marketplace. We consolidated this new structure during 2019, refocusing our strategic plan to underpin this, and updating our purpose and mission so that our entire business is aligned in achieving this goal. We have been in business for more than a century and, over this time, our clients have come to trust us as their business partners. We work hard to warrant this trust, as this remains at the heart of everything we stand for in our brand and our reputation. Our new purpose statement, ‘inspiring trust for a more resilient world’, encapsulates this, and our continued progress in 2019 demonstrates our own resilience and our success in delivering our promises. As in prior years, we have continued our growth and development into an integrated global enterprise, able to serve clients across the world with an expanding range of services and solutions from a growing network of offices. As I reported last year, in 2018 we moved from a geographical management structure to one managed through four global business streams. 2019 was the first full year under this new structure and it is extremely pleasing to be able to report significant revenue growth again, due to the huge efforts of my Howard Kerr, Chief Executive colleagues worldwide to ensure a seamless transition as far as our clients were concerned. 18 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 This structural refocus reflects the way that our We received notification of the establishment of our clients go about managing their businesses, demanding new notified body in the Netherlands in 2018, confirming solutions that are internationally relevant and delivered our ability to provide market access for our clients locally by our network of standards developers, auditors, from inside the EU and, in 2019, achieved most of the tutors, technical experts, testers and consultants based relevant designations under EU Directives. Also, our in 84 offices in 31 countries but actually doing business International Projects division which has, historically, in over 190 countries across the world. A commercial been the recipient of EU funding for much of its work, team, strengthened still further in 2019, works to match opened an office in Paris during 2018 to ensure future clients to our diverse portfolio of services and solutions participation in such projects. Our objective is to provide across all industries and we have established dedicated continuity of service to our multiple stakeholders during sector management in industries where we have our and after the Brexit transition process. strongest presence and are, or aim to be, recognized as thought leaders: Healthcare, Food and Retail and Built Environment in the first phase, to be followed by more ‘Embedding the concept of in the future. Organizational Resilience, both As our purpose statement indicates, we are in the business of ‘trust’ and ‘resilience’. Over the past four years, internally and externally, remains we have been developing the concept of ‘Organizational the cornerstone of our strategy.' Resilience’. Embedding this, both internally and externally, remains the cornerstone of our strategy. When a business In trading terms, the normal fluctuations in currency, is resilient, it inspires the trust of its stakeholders commodity and stock markets had little effect on our and society as a whole benefits. We are proud to have performance in 2019. I explained last year that the been involved in this process for so many years and three-year transition period to the new versions of acknowledge the important role we will continue to our major standards, ISO 9001 (Quality Management) play as the world develops and changes. and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management), ended 2019 was an interesting year for the world economy. in September 2018. This meant that, while we enjoyed We entered the year with a sense of foreboding. The final nine months of this incremental business during the quarter of 2018 had been difficult for global stock markets. 2018 financial year, the same was not the case during There were fears of trade wars and increased tariffs 2019 and, hence, year-on-year comparisons are adversely adversely affecting free trade. The Brexit process, under affected by this one-off event. The other important impacts which the UK Government endeavoured to implement the on our results during the year were in our Regulatory result of the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, Services stream and the Californian business of our had stagnated and led to continued uncertainty in the UK Consulting Services stream where, due to resourcing market. However, the global economy perhaps exceeded constraints, we were unable to satisfy the entire demand these gloomy predictions and produced more benign for our services. Significant investments have been trading conditions than we had expected. After almost undertaken during 2019 to rectify this. four years of uncertainty since the Brexit referendum, During 2019, we have continued to develop our it is to be hoped that the withdrawal process will reach, geographical, business stream, sector and domain at least, an initial conclusion in 2020 and everyone can footprint to ensure that we remain well hedged against concentrate their efforts on ensuring optimal trading external business cycles, whether global or local, sector conditions between the UK and the rest of the world. or currency related. As we develop internationally, our As far as BSI is concerned, as I explained last year, natural hedging against these cycles improves and we we received confirmation in late 2018 that we will will continue to manage this process proactively. continue to participate actively in the European single As a result of these influences, our revenue and profit standard system as the UK National Standards Body performance in 2019 was in line with our expectations. through continued membership of and participation Underlying revenue, as it has every year this century, in European Standards Organizations, namely the reached record levels at £548.1m, an increase of 7% on European Committee for Standardization (CEN), the the £511.9m reported for 2018. This increase comprised European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization 4% organic growth, 1% from the small acquisitions (CENELEC) and the European Telecommunications completed in 2018 and 2019, and 2% due to changes Standards Institute (ETSI), which are independent of in the average value of Sterling during the year against the EU. We believe that it is important that UK notified our major trading currencies. New sales orders, which bodies, such as BSI, use their proven expertise to maintain will translate into revenue over time, grew by 4% at their important conformity assessment role and ensure constant exchange rates. our clients’ ongoing access to UK and European markets. bsigroup.com 19 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive’s review continued Summary continued Investments Many of our sales orders translate into revenue very In 2019 we continued the investment programme quickly but others, such as our Assurance Services started the previous year. We completed the investment and Consulting Services business streams, enjoy a in the new management structure with the appointment large proportion of revenue driven by longer-term of the Group Commercial Director and heads of contracts with our clients. our Healthcare and Built Environment streams and underpinned these, and other senior managers, with As a Royal Charter Company with no shareholders, the support structure required to manage a business BSI is in a position to be able to invest its retained that has grown from revenue of £235m in 2010 to profits back into the business and take a longer-term almost £550m in 2019. We recruited unprecedented view on profit growth. 2019 was another year of numbers of highly technical delivery staff in our significant investment at BSI, as we continued our Regulatory Services stream to support revenue growth programme of investments in talent resourcing of over 20% for the second consecutive year, as well and recruitment, IT infrastructure and cloud-based as increasing client-facing sales and delivery and software, office refurbishment, product development functional support employees elsewhere in and marketing. These have had the expected effect the business. of depressing profit levels below those of 2018 but will leverage higher profits in a more resilient way in the future. Underlying operating profit (UOP) was ‘We are now managed through £58.3m in 2018, 6% lower than the £61.8m reported in 2018, on account of these investments. This reduction four global business streams can be split into a 9% organic reduction and a 3% uplift from the first-time implementation of IFRS 16, Leases . supported by a strong local Acquisitions and exchange rate movements had a network of delivery resources.' negligible effect. UOP margin decreased, as a result, from 12.1% in 2018 to 10.6% in 2019. In addition to these significant investments in the recruitment and development of our people, we have Structure continued to invest heavily in our IT systems and BSI is now managed through four global business streams, infrastructure, which look towards the BSI of the future Knowledge, Assurance Services, Regulatory Services and while allowing us to do our business effectively today Consulting Services. These are supported by a strong in this digital age. We manage these investments as a local network of delivery resources in 31 countries across single Business Transformation programme which Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the Americas and fully supports our business strategy. The major project Asia Pacific. Over the past two years, we have developed completed in 2019 was the implementation of the first a commercial structure which forms the connection phase of our fully integrated cloud-based Workday between our four business streams, providing clients Human Resources Management platform, which is with the opportunity to benefit from the services and now used by all our employees worldwide. Further solutions provided by each of our streams. In particular, phases will follow and, soon, all aspects of career we work with key clients in our main focus sectors of development, training, recruitment, remuneration and Healthcare, Food and Retail and Built Environment. absences will be run through this single system. This Each of these is now headed by a sector leader, who has permitted several legacy systems to be discontinued provides thought leadership in their sector to clients and is already demonstrating efficiencies in BSI. In in this industry. The sector leaders also tailor the Group’s addition, we instigated further projects in our Knowledge offering to the requirements of the sector and provide and Regulatory Services streams as we continue the key account management through a team of Business transformation of our systems into an integrated Development Directors and support staff. Clients are cloud-based format, and made good progress in our often surprised by the breadth of our service offering Global Infrastructure, Digital Workplace and Cyber and are keen to broaden their business with a partner Security projects as we harmonize and strengthen our they trust. Supporting this client-facing structure are IT infrastructure and improve our employee experience highly enabling central functions and innovative of IT. We expect these investments to continue at this business systems in which we invest continuously. higher level for several years. This structure is overseen by the Group Executive, which We also continue to invest in the development sets and manages targets and reacts quickly and flexibly of innovative new standards that not only meet the needs to changes in the competitive environment. I chair the of the economy and society today but anticipate the Group Executive, which comprises functional directors requirements of the future. Our Standards Development in Finance, Human Resources and Legal, the Director team has engaged extensively with current and new of Standards, the heads of the four business streams, stakeholders in the UK and beyond to promote the and the Group Commercial Director. 20 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 benefits of standards and standardization. As a result, interest in the services and solutions that we have to Support for the United Nations offer has increased significantly. We have continued to invest in the development of training courses, which Sustainable Development Goals focus on the requirements of businesses as they embark Last year, I announced that on or develop their own journeys to standardization. we are a signatory to the Two acquisitions were completed during 2019. United Nations Global In April, we acquired AppSec Consulting Inc., a cyber Compact and are proud security and information resilience (CSIR) company, to support its principles. located in San Jose, California, US. This acquisition In 2019, we made a further strengthens our CSIR services in the US, one of the commitment to focus key markets that are leading the development and on seven of the United Nations implementation of information and cyber security best Sustainable Development practice. AppSec Consulting’s wide range of services Goals (SDG) where we feel we is an excellent match to those offered by the existing can make a real difference: BSI CSIR team in the UK and Ireland. In August, we SDG 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 17. acquired Health and Disability Auditing New Zealand Ltd. Further details appear in our (HDANZ), a Healthcare sector auditing organization Sustainability report on based in Christchurch, New Zealand. HDANZ is now pages 41 to 47. part of our Assurance Services business, which will boost its ability to offer a wider range of auditing, compliance and improvement solutions. This acquisition is part of the expansion of our healthcare services certification business into the New Zealand market, building critical scale and supporting our ambition to become a leading provider in Healthcare, one of our focus sectors. Stakeholders supporting career opportunities and performance Due to our position in global standards making and delivery. This will enable our management teams to world business, we have a wide range of stakeholders drive the client-centric, agile and collaborative from governments, professional bodies, consumers and practices that support our vision. academia, through our members and standards makers, In 2019, our business continued to grow, with significant to our people, clients and suppliers. These relationships investment onboarding new capability in all areas, but are all vital to us as we go about our work to drive resilience particularly in Regulatory Services and our new commercial and make excellence a habit, both internally at BSI and structure. Globally, we received over 56,000 job in the wider world. We work hard to engage with all our applications during the year and recruited 1,266 new stakeholders and to create a balance of long-term value employees. As a result, we had, on average, 5,089 for each through our strategy, our actions and the way people working for BSI, an increase of 6% over 2018. that we go about our business. An overview of how the Board has fulfilled its duty, as set out in Section 172 of the Our 2017 employee engagement survey reported Companies Act 2006, to promote our long-term success, high levels of engagement in our purpose and belief while considering the interests of our stakeholders in our ability to achieve our ambitions. Four areas were and our impact on the community and environment, highlighted where we could benefit from improvement: is explained on pages 76 to 77 of the Directors’ report. My Manager (leadership and career development), Wellbeing (where we started the implementation of a People global employee assistance programme and continued Our people are fundamental to the success of our to analyse how we can improve work-life balance), Fair business. We continue to deliver business excellence Deal (remuneration) and Giving Something Back (where through the passion and expertise of our people and our staff requested that we do even more to continue to strive to make BSI a great place to work. Our philosophy work with our local communities and the environment). remains that, if we look after our people, our people will The Pulse Survey we undertook in late 2019 showed look after our clients and each other. During the year, that we had made progress in each of these areas. we have implemented the Workday Global HR system Specifically, in the Wellbeing area, we implemented a that will allow us to deliver our ambitious people strategy. global employee assistance programme in partnership For the first time, we can provide access to real-time with Optum and trained more than half of our managers people information across our business globally, in dealing with mental wellbeing. bsigroup.com 21 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive’s review continued People continued The combined effect of these two parameters, along We now have a consistent grading structure across with exchange gains and the impact of our acquisitions, all of our streams and functions, linked to global job has resulted in the growth of revenue during the year families across our business. This, in conjunction with of 7%. a new, global reward policy, has allowed us to simplify Of course, the growth in revenue needs to be our practices and take into consideration local conditions complemented by client satisfaction and, again, and practices, and has led to more consistency across our clients have told us that, generally, they are very our business. satisfied with BSI and that they benefit from working In line with our new excellence behaviour of agility, with us. In 2019, 65% of respondents to our question 2019 saw the delivery of our first, truly global, people about how likely they would be to recommend our development offering, incorporating virtual training services and solutions scored us nine or ten out of ten, through a learning portal, designed to move BSI towards and only 7% scored us between zero and six out of ten. an integrated development journey that can be accessed This gives us a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of +58. This is anywhere in the world. In addition, we have increased an increase of 2 points even on the high level we achieved our involvement in Career Ready programmes, internships in 2018. We must not be complacent with this success. and apprenticeships. Our integrated succession planning We are fully aware that our scores differ by business process ensures that we can combine the continued stream, and that a change in the mix of respondents development of our existing people with specific and between business streams could result in an adverse focused recruitments to develop and retain a strong movement in the NPS from year to year. We listen to pipeline of skills to build a resilient and sustainable our clients constantly and do whatever we can to ensure BSI for the future. that they treat BSI as their business partner of choice, for more and more of their Knowledge, Assurance Above all, we aspire to be a great place to work, a Services, Regulatory Services and Consulting business that talented people want to join and where Services requirements. they can grow their careers and live our core values of Integrity, Respect and Expertise, which guide us in Our reputation remains paramount to us at BSI. everything we do. Our people are our most valuable It is underpinned by our credo of ‘Making Excellence a asset and make BSI what it is today. Habit’. Everyone at BSI works to these high standards and that is why our clients work with us and continue Clients to work with us. Once again, we delivered our services and solutions to an extensive client base. We worked with almost 84,000 Outlook clients in over 190 countries across the globe on every We delivered record revenue in 2019, and profits only continent. During 2019, although we worked with clients below 2018 due to the planned increased level of of all sizes, from large multinational clients, where our investments in people and infrastructure. Our strategy revenues exceed £1m per annum, to a large number of of developing our business globally, by business small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with our stream, and focusing on our key sectors, provides a strategy, we focused our efforts in our chosen sectors strong natural hedge against most economic, political and in our key account management. In some cases where, and social issues that can create uncertainty in a global in the past, we have considered several subsidiaries of trading environment. Currently, we are faced with the the same company to be individual clients, we are now coronavirus pandemic. There is no doubt that this will working with them holistically as part of our developing key adversely impact our 2020 results, but it is too early accounts management programmes. These programmes to quantify this. Our strong financial position at the end allow us to offer services and solutions coherently from of 2019 provides a good base from which to withstand each of our business streams to the client from a single the crisis, and we are continuously monitoring the point of contact, ensuring that the client understands, situation, taking appropriate decisions to minimize its and can benefit from, the full range available from BSI. impact on our people and our business as it develops. In return, we hope to serve clients across their business, We hope to return to normal trading conditions as rather than to each subsidiary individually. soon as possible so that we can continue to implement our strategy, maximize our opportunities and drive BSI Interestingly, this approach has meant that we actually to further success. worked with a similar number of clients in 2019 as in 2018. However, there was an increase in our average revenue per account (ARPA), which grew by 4% from £5,700 in 2018 to £5,900 in 2019. ARPA is an increasingly important key performance indicator for us as it indicates the success of our strategy to work more globally with Howard Kerr key accounts. We set our target ARPA for 2020 as £6,000 Chief Executive and only need to grow by 2% this year to hit this target, which we should achieve if current trends continue. 27 March 2020 22 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Business review Knowledge Our Knowledge business stream comprises our Standards Development, Services and Information Solutions businesses. Revenue Growth Proportion of total revenue £66.5m 2018: £65.2m 2% (+2% at constant 12% 2018: 13% exchange rates) Our Knowledge business stream operates in a stable but evolving Standards Online (BSOL) product continued to deliver strong revenue market, and delivered revenue growth, at constant exchange rates, growth from new business, as well as maintaining its market-leading of 2% in 2019. This was lower than in recent years, particularly due renewal rates. Compliance Navigator, our compliance tool for the to the cyclical nature of some parts of the business and the large, Medical Devices industry, also delivered significant revenue growth. contractual, nature of others, although this was mitigated in other Additional content and functionality maintained the strong areas, particularly in subscriptions for our suite of standards. US growth as well as delivering expansion into new territories. During the year, we continued to implement our strategy of providing Our third-party distributor partners maintained their increasing smart content, knowledge and services to support our clients contribution to our performance, remaining a key channel to whenever their requirements for standards and compliance related broaden our geographical access to our client base. information arose. Our Knowledge Services revenue remained in line with that of 2018 During 2019 we restructured the management of the stream, despite a number of multi-year contracts coming to the end of their refocusing the business to underpin Group strategy and service term. Our Standards Development Services business delivered another better our client base. We completed the reorganization of our record year of revenue, growing by 63%, albeit from a small base, Knowledge Services team to focus better on client-led services and is now becoming a business of scale that contributes well to the and solutions. This has allowed us to expand and build our capability total stream. Our International Projects consultancy business faced to offer new solutions to our clients to deliver insight, research, significant challenges securing new business from its traditional standards strategies, sponsored standards and the new capability funding source of the European Union, due to uncertainty over the of standards consultancy. In addition, we modernized our standards future role of the UK in Europe, with revenues down 18% on 2018. development environment, creating a deeper understanding of our This has reinforced the value of our successful strategy to diversify focus sectors. We enhanced the organizational model and working and develop relationships with a broader base of funding bodies, practices and have launched an initiative that will improve the IT which has started to compensate in 2019. Late in the year, we won systems and workflows that support our standards development major strategic contracts in both China and India, which have put consensus process. To deepen still further our understanding of us in a strong position to deliver good revenue growth in 2020. and engagement with our key sectors, we have established a new, We increased our portfolio of programmes with the UK Government sector-specific team to concentrate on in-depth engagement and to enable market innovation and support the move to a low carbon knowledge acquisition and to develop strategies that support economy. These new programmes will support progress towards a these sectors, as well as Energy and ICT, as they look to respond to number of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), innovation, sustainability challenges and rapidly changing political particularly in the areas of climate action, affordable and clean energy and social situations. and sustainable cities and communities. We remain very aware of our Document revenue declined by 10% in 2019. Annual revenues unique position, which permits us to support and contribute to such here are influenced by the multi-year publishing cycles of our important initiatives as these. We will leverage this position, and the higher selling standards. This anticipated decline in revenue resulting trust that our clients, and society in general, place on us, as we look from the 2015 revisions of ISO 9001 (Quality Management) and forward to another challenging and successful year of growth in 2020. ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and the transition in 2018 of OHSAS 18001 into ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Shirley Bailey-Wood Management) continued. We expect the downward trend for these Director, Information Solutions publications to continue next year. Fortunately, this decrease was mitigated by strong growth in our subscription revenue, driven largely by our two main subscription products. Our flagship British bsigroup.com 23 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Business review continued Assurance Services Our Assurance Services business stream comprises our Systems Certification, Product Certification and Training businesses. Revenue Growth Proportion of total revenue £283.0m 2% 2018: £277.4m (+1% at constant 52% 2018: 54% exchange rates) 2019 was the first full year in which the new global stream organization Product Certification has been in place, now serving clients in over 190 countries through Our Product Certification business grew by 7% in 2019 at five regional management teams. The new organization showed constant exchange rates. Our major success during 2019 was the immediate success, in line with our strategy, as we won business with establishment of our new notified body in the Netherlands, which new and existing global key accounts while continuing to provide we opened to relieve the uncertainty that our clients were feeling good service for our smaller, more local, clients. The assurance market due to the impending withdrawal of the UK from the European as a whole experienced a slowdown in 2019, although we maintained Union. We have successfully transitioned the majority of our CE positive growth. Along with our competitors between 2016 and 2018, marking scopes to this notified body and hope to complete this we had benefited from incremental one-off revenue arising from process in 2020. However, some delays in this process adversely transition to the new versions of our two most important standards, affected our revenue. We made changes to our organization under ISO 9001 (Quality Management) and its various sector derivatives a new Product Certification Director, realigning our testing and and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management). 2019 comparatives certification teams under global practices to be more client focused. are adversely affected by this. We expect growth to return to more We launched more products during the year, particularly leveraging traditional levels in 2020. our well-known and well-trusted Kitemark in areas such as services, vulnerable customers, the circular economy, clinical governance, Systems Certification digital construction for Building Information Modelling and Smart Our Systems Certification business declined by 1% in 2019 at Cities, and the Internet of Things for digitally connected devices. constant exchange rates, due to comparison with a very strong We continued to invest in our Hemel Hempstead and Loughborough, 2018 boosted by the transition mentioned above. However, we UK, sites, preparing for ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety undertook several innovative initiatives to drive growth in 2020 Management) certification and made further progress in our planned and beyond. We launched new solutions for our clients, including upgrade of our laboratory equipment, shutting down some ISO 41001 (Facility Management) and ISO 27701 (Privacy Information unprofitable activities. Management) and expanded our portfolio in areas that are relevant to the resilience of our clients, such as health, safety and wellbeing, Training sustainability and the circular economy, information security and data Our Training business grew by 6% in 2019 at constant exchange rates, privacy. We implemented QR codes on our certificates, permitting although this was lower than in previous years due to the slowdown clients and consumers to verify their validity, piloted immersive audits in the training market in 2019 following the end of transition. Within our using wearable technologies and proactively launched customized expanding training portfolio, the most significant growth came from audits, following consultation with our clients about their future products sitting outside our traditional management systems business, requirements. To complement these, and to enhance the digitalization including medical devices regulation, performance improvement of our stream, we deployed our new BSI Assurance Portal across the and Building Information Modelling (BIM) related courses. We also majority of our estate, so clients can now interact online with us. 2019 delivered good growth in our expanding health and safety and food also saw the end of a long-standing collaboration with the Saudi Food safety related portfolios. Indeed, we developed 59 new training and Drug Authority relating to conformity assessment for medical courses during the year, taking our global portfolio to 295 products. devices, which has now been taken back in house. In August, we Encrypted digital training documents were successfully piloted in acquired Health and Disability Auditing New Zealand Ltd. (HDANZ), the UK and US during 2019 as part of our sustainability drive and a Healthcare sector auditing organization based in Christchurch, will be rolled out globally in 2020. New Zealand. This acquisition is part of the expansion of our healthcare services certification business into the New Zealand Pietro Foschi market, building critical scale and supporting our ambition to Director, Assurance Services become a leading provider in Healthcare, one of our focus sectors. 24 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Regulatory Services Our Regulatory Services business stream currently comprises Systems Certification and Product Certification into the Medical Devices industry. Revenue Growth Proportion of total revenue £119.4m 2018: £92.7m 29% (+26% at constant 22% 2018: 18% exchange rates) As a result of the reorganization along business streams, rather new few years. Some of our previous competitors in this space than geographical lines, we created a new global stream in 2018 to have struggled to adapt to the new regulation and, in some cases, include those areas of business covered by legislation rather than have elected to withdraw from the sector. voluntary standards. Currently this stream comprises solely Systems Regulatory Services was our fastest growing business stream. and Product Certification for the Medical Devices industry, but there Indeed, this growth has been so fast that there have been times, are plans to expand this remit in future years. particularly in early 2019, when we have experienced supply-side This stream brings together systems and product certification for issues and struggled to satisfy client demand. In 2019, we recruited the industry as both parts are required to complete a conformity over 200 new employees into this stream, and expect to grow our assessment to gain CE marking so that a medical device may be placed team at a similar rate in 2020. This, along with a material investment on the European market, or local equivalent certification schemes into the IT infrastructure, represents the single largest organic for other markets such as Japan and Malaysia. This side-by-side investment in a stream that BSI has made. approach has already improved client focus and service levels. The end of 2019 sees our Regulatory Services stream in a good It also permits a clear delineation in the management structure position with respect to the market and our clients. We maintain between notified body and compliance duties from any a leading presence in the EU, albeit now working primarily through consulting activities. our Netherlands notified body, while remaining fully engaged with Enabling access to the European Union accounts for around 80% UK regulators with a view to being part of that system over the next of our stream revenue. Due to uncertainty over Brexit, our clients few years. Importantly, we continue to add depth to our product faced a threat that UK-based notified bodies would no longer be portfolio and derived significant revenue from the Medical Device permitted to provide CE marking. Our contingency plan, conceived Single Audit Program (MDSAP) on behalf of the US Food and Drug back in 2016, was to open a new notified body (NB) in the Netherlands. Administration, Health Canada and regulators in Brazil, Australia NB 2797 was designated and notified by the EU in late 2018 and is and Japan. This programme represents another strong growth now fully operational, with patients having received uninterrupted engine for the stream. access to vital products and innovation. The planned seamless We continued to plan and invest strongly in developing our migration of thousands of clients to this notified body happened market-leading position in the medical devices’ regulatory assurance in the first half of 2019, creating minimal, if any, disruption to our market. We are fully aware of the challenges facing the global medical clients, allowing us to maintain our leading global market position. devices industry in ensuring certification under the new regulations, The most significant changes in EU legislation since 1990, Active particularly as demographics predict a continuing increased demand Implantable Medical Devices (AIMD) and the Medical Device Directive for these products. We remain well placed to address these challenges (MDD), are now current and the new Medical Device Regulation and anticipate further significant growth in this stream as we (MDR) takes effect in May 2020. The journey for CE conformity continue to satisfy this increased demand. assessments under the new legislation is long and demanding, taking up to two years in some cases, and we were pleased to be the first Manuela Gazzard EU notified body to be designated so that we can help our clients to Director, Regulatory Services make an early start on that journey to meet the date of application. We also achieved designation under the new In-Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR), which is effective from May 2024, and we now hold a total of ten designations in the UK and the Netherlands. These designations put us in an excellent position to satisfy client demand in what is going to be a rapidly expanding market over the bsigroup.com 25 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Business review continued Consulting Services Our Consulting Services stream comprises two businesses, an Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security consultancy and a Cyber Security and Information Resilience consultancy. Revenue Growth Proportion of total revenue £79.2m 2018: £76.6m 3% (+0% at constant 14% 2018: 15% exchange rates) I had the pleasure of joining BSI as leader of this stream Our Supply Chain practice had a good year, with the Supply Chain in September 2019 following a long career in this industry. Management (SCM) tool expanding into Brazil and Australia and Subsequently, the strategy of the stream has been reassessed, being incorporated into our Assurance Services offering for its the structure and operating model changed, and key leadership second-party audit business. Our SCAN programme, which we positions announced. These changes culminated in early 2020 manage on behalf of US importers, hit a new record, with over when we changed the name of this stream from Professional 10,000 audits in 70 countries. These tools will help broaden the Services to Consulting Services, to reflect its main focus. Going offering in our newly combined business. forward, the stream will comprise two global businesses; the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) consulting business and Cyber Security and Information Resilience (CSIR) the Supply Chain Solutions business described in last year’s report Our Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (CSIR) consulting have been combined into a single consultancy which will be called business also had a challenging year in 2019, with organic growth Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S). at constant exchange rates down by 3% on 2018. This was due to Cyber Security and Information Resilience (CSIR) will continue lower demand for our eDiscovery, Forensics and Cloud Security in its current form. This new structure will allow us to serve our offerings. These tend to be large orders, and demand can be cyclical. clients’ needs better through well-defined practices delivering Strong sales of these services in 2019 augur well for a higher level of deep subject matter expertise in a client-centric way. delivery and revenue in 2020. In April, we acquired AppSec Consulting Inc., a CSIR business, Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S) located in San Jose, California, US. This acquisition strengthens our Our Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S) CSIR services in the US, one of the key markets that are leading the consulting business in the US had a difficult year in 2019, following development and implementation of information and cyber security a strong 2018, with revenues declining by 4% at constant exchange best practice. AppSec Consulting’s wide range of services is an rates. There are two main reasons for this underperformance. In an excellent match with those offered by the existing BSI CSIR team in important region for our business, California, US, talent retention Europe. Revenue growth from this acquisition mitigated the organic issues have resulted in high consultant attrition and turnover during decline in the revenue of this business elsewhere, leading to overall the year. This is a highly competitive market for top talent, exacerbated revenue growth of 21% at constant exchange rates. by an increasing cost of living in this state, particularly in the Silicon Valley region close to our main office. In addition, we have We continue to provide thought leadership on global information experienced some cases where our service offering has been resilience, covering topics in important areas such as cyberbullying insourced, and this has led to a loss of key clients and their and child protection, partnering with schools and other associations associated revenue. to highlight the threats in these areas and the necessary protections. This thought leadership stance was also highlighted in the successful Measures have been taken to counteract these impacts for 2020, BSI International Cyber Exchange, held in Dublin, Ireland, and attended but 2019 also brought with it some successes and exciting new by industry leaders and key clients. innovation. We held the BSI Connect Summit in San Francisco, US, in partnership with a leading entertainment technology business, Thorsten Querfurt with over 20 companies in attendance, sharing how to leverage Director, Consulting Services technology with consulting. We highlighted the new features of our compliance software, Entropy, as well as the innovation underway with immersive reality and drone-enhanced consulting. These innovations allow our clients deeper access to our consultants and make a positive contribution to BSI’s sustainability goals. 26 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management Risk management High The Board of BSI understands that effective risk C management is an inherent part of the business process. The identification, evaluation and mitigation of risk are D integrated into key business processes from strategic B planning to day-to-day performance management. The H L Board also understands that it is responsible for the risk management system and for reviewing its J effectiveness on an ongoing basis. K Impact M G We have a continual and dynamic process for identifying, I Medium evaluating and managing the risks in the business, based on ISO 31000 (Risk Management). Risks identified are A logged in risk registers within all business streams, F sectors, geographies and functions. Above these sit the Group Principal and Strategic Risk Registers. E Our management is accountable for managing risks Low within their area of responsibility and for sharing information relating to these risks with their colleagues, in the spirit of collaboration. Risk management is a Low MediumHigh Likelihood standing item on all key management meetings and our Group Internal Audit and Risk department ensures that regular reviews are undertaken at all levels within We maintained our certification to ISO 14001 the business. The Board receives and reviews a risk (Environmental Management), and successfully management report at every Board meeting. The Board transitioned from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 also formally reviews the risk management process (Occupational Health and Safety Management) every year with the Group Internal Audit and Risk at our Chiswick office in 2019. Business continuity department and conducts a robust assessment of the plans are in place for each of our business locations principal risks. The Board considers the risk worldwide, the majority of which were formally management system to be effective. tested during the year. We extended our certification to ISO 27001 (Information Security Management) What we did in 2019 beyond our headquarters and Knowledge business in Throughout 2019 we continued to conduct a programme Chiswick, UK, and our Cyber Security and Information of risk workshops, training and risk reviews. The Group Resilience businesses in Ireland and the UK, now to Internal Audit and Risk team conducts all internal audits include our Regulatory Services, System Certification on a risk basis, and supplements audits with secondees and Training businesses, and our key locations globally. from the business and subject matter experts, where We updated our Code of Business Ethics and appropriate. An external quality assessment of the introduced an Anti-Bullying and Harassment policy Group Internal Audit and Risk department was performed as well as reviewing our Anti-Bribery and Corruption by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors in policy, as we do annually. We updated and rebranded January 2019, which identified significant improvements our whistle-blowing arrangements as ‘Speak Up’ since the previous review that was conducted in and engaged a new, external provider, supported by an September 2015. The department has implemented all awareness campaign. We provided mandatory training recommendations to ensure that it conforms to the for all employees and contingent workers in information International Professional Practice Framework. security, anti-bribery and corruption and anti-bullying and harassment during the year. bsigroup.com 27 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties continued We have added a single new risk, ‘health, safety and the environment’, to reflect our broadening sustainability agenda. What we will do in 2020 Insurance Our Principal Risk Register, Strategic Risk Register BSI maintains a global insurance programme covering and subsidiary risk registers will be regularly and all major insurable risks to the Group’s business assets systematically updated to reflect the external and operations worldwide. The insurance programme economic, political and social environment, the latest is regularly reviewed, and new lines of cover are Group strategic plan initiatives and the reorganization introduced as required. of the business, and we will continue to implement our programme of risk workshops, training and risk reviews Changes to principal risks during 2019 at business stream, sector, geographical, functional and We regularly reviewed and updated our Principal Risk project levels to embed and enhance still further our Register during 2019 and ensured consistency with management of risk globally. our new purpose and mission. The latest version of this register is shown in this report. We have added We will broaden the scope of certification for ISO 14001 a single new risk, 'Health, safety and the environment’, (Environmental Management) and ISO 45001 (Occupational to the Principal Risk Register in 2019 to reflect the Health and Safety Management) and will enhance our broadening sustainability agenda in our new resilience with respect to business continuity and crisis strategic plan. No risks have been removed. management. Further initiatives to provide assurance around information security risk will also be implemented We consider the ‘Brexit’ risk, at Group level, to have and we will continue to extend our ISO 27001 (Information decreased during 2019 as we have successfully established Security Management) compliance and certification a notified body in the Netherlands for our Regulatory throughout BSI globally. Services and Product Certification businesses and transitioned certificates to this notified body where BSI has operations in countries which have been requested by our clients. The risk relating to our affected by coronavirus as our employees have been membership of CEN and CENELEC remains unchanged. unable to access our clients’ sites. We believe that this will lead to postponements rather than cancellations in the majority of cases but are monitoring developments closely and taking mitigating actions where necessary. Type of risk Risk Mitigating actions 2019 update 1. Relevance A. Brexit The UK’s exit from the European Union may We have increased our engagement with the affect our membership of CEN and CENELEC, UK Government to reach a common understanding which could reduce our ability to deliver our of the value of international standards. We maintain objectives, particularly in shaping European strong relationships with our stakeholders and standards. Macro-economic risk related to European and international standards bodies, so ongoing uncertainty continues. that they are aware of, and value, our contribution. B. Government policy We are recognized by the UK Government as the We work closely with the UK Government and UK National Standards Body (NSB). If this status engage with other governments to ensure that our changed, it could reduce our ability to develop voice is heard. A regulatory compliance framework British Standards and influence international and audit programme is in place, including our standards. Changes to government policy, in Impartiality Code of Conduct, on which applicable any of the many jurisdictions where we operate, employees receive training. This ensures that we could affect our ability to deliver. observe our NSB obligations. C. Royal Charter Our Royal Charter status is important as it allows We engage with stakeholders to ensure that we fulfil status us to do business independently and without our obligations under the Royal Charter. We run a external pressure. It is central to our purpose governance regime that applies the principles of the that we preserve this status. UK Corporate Governance Code, where applicable, and actively review our compliance through Board and Executive Committees. Key No change Increased Decreased 28 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Type of risk Risk Mitigating actions 2019 update 2. Compliance D. Accreditation A large percentage of the work we perform We engage with our accreditation bodies and government compliance is governed by national and international agencies to ensure that any issue is resolved before accreditation bodies and government agencies. it affects our accreditation or notified body status. Loss of any accreditation could have a serious A regulatory compliance framework and audit impact on our business. programme is in place. E. Financial and fiscal There is an ongoing risk in any organization of our We have strong reporting lines and policies and compliance size and complexity that irregularities occur, due procedures in place. We have internal audit teams to human error or fraud, that could impact our that perform risk-based audits, supported by an financial results. annual external audit of our financial results by PricewaterhouseCoopers. F. Legal action Any breach of, or change in, legislation in a jurisdiction Our Legal team operates across the business and develops in which we do business could result in legal action relationships with external law firms to ensure that we against us. We could be held indirectly or directly are aware of forthcoming changes to legislation. Key liable for third-party claims arising at client sites employees receive relevant training and compliance or businesses. policies and procedures are in place. 3. Business environment G. Change The achievement of our strategic objectives requires Strategic plans and the annual budgeting and reporting management the management of our business in a complex and process take the external environment into consideration constantly changing economic environment as well and are approved by the Group Executive and Board. as through internal transformation projects and the Project governance and change management processes integration of acquisitions. are in place to ensure the successful implementation of these plans. H. Innovation Lack of pace or successful implementation Our Innovation programme has links to all streams, of innovation or competitor action could threaten sectors and regions. We monitor and analyse activity our competitive position in our chosen markets. in our competitive landscape at local and global level. I. Talent An inability to develop, recruit or retain the right Talent initiatives are reviewed regularly. Succession skills and diverse workforce in the Group could planning is in place at all levels of the organization mean that business performance may suffer, to underpin the change in management structure, or opportunities are not exploited. and regular gap analysis takes place. J. UK pension scheme Increases in the ongoing deficit associated with The scheme is closed to new entrants and future accruals our UK defined benefit pension scheme would and we hold regular meetings with the Trustee to review adversely affect the strength of our balance sheet. the investment policy, funding requirements and any opportunity to reduce this risk. 4. Sustainability K. Reputation Our reputation and brand are extremely important We promote our purpose and mission with our and brand to us, and failure to protect these could undermine employees, business partners and other stakeholders. our ability to maintain and grow our business. The BSI Code of Business Ethics sets the ethical values and high standards of integrity that apply to every aspect of the way that we work. L. Information security Failure to protect against inadvertent loss of We have extended our certification to ISO 27001 information assets or the threat of cyber-attack and will continue to roll out compliance to this standard could adversely affect our trading, reputation globally. We invest in our cyber security detection and or brand. prevention infrastructure. All employees and contingent workers receive training on information security. M. Health, safety and Failure to protect our employees, contingent We have an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental the environment workers and other stakeholders from illness, injury Management System and are certified to ISO 14001 and or environmental impact arising from our activities ISO 45001 at our Group headquarters. We will continue could adversely affect our trading, reputation to roll out compliance to these standards globally. or brand. bsigroup.com 29 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Case study Innovation in food Inspiring trust in food production The production and export of sustainable palm oil is fraught with challenge, and producers face ever-increasing demands on yield, transparency and compliance. BSI has partnered with aerial-imaging software developer vCapture to create an innovative cloud-based solution using drone technology that makes auditing and crop management practices more accurate, effective and efficient than ever before. Palm growers can now consistently monitor their fields, key to meeting the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) criteria, helping them reduce greenhouse gas emissions, halt deforestation and manage crop health. 30 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 'Aerial assessments help build trust and transparency in the Food sector. They also mitigate risk, optimizing the yield and quality of palm oil crops. Such inventive ideas are key to meeting the rising consumer and industry demand for responsible palm oil.' David Horlock, Managing Director, Global Food and Retail bsigroup.com 31 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Standards review Maintaining the RELEVANCE of British Standards Introduction 2019 was a year that stretched every member of the Standards team, as we faced increased demands across standards development and Committee management, international, European and national policy, digital transformation and engagement with our business and industry sectors, consumer, public interest and government stakeholders. Developing our standards At the heart of what we do is the delivery of the work of the National Standards Body (NSB), developing and publishing standards. 2019 saw the adoption and publication of 2,839 international and European standards as British Standards and 104 other National and Publicly Available Specification (PAS) Standards. The breadth of our coverage continued to grow. A few examples from 2019 include: • BS 45002-2 (General Guidelines for the Application of ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management)). • BS 67000 (City Resilience) with support from the World Bank, UNISDR, UN Habitat, OECD and representatives from UK cities. • BS 5839-6 (Fire Detection and Fire Alarm Systems in Domestic Buildings). • BS 95009 (Fairness in Public Sector Procurement), supporting the work of the Cabinet Office. • BS EN 14971 (Terminology, Principles and Process to Help with Application of Risk Management of Medical Devices). • PAS 499 (Code of Practice for Digital Identification Scott Steedman, Director of Standards and Customer Authentication). • PAS 1040 (Guide to Digital Technology Adoption for Manufacturing Industry). 32 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 • PAS 2030, PAS 2031 and PAS 2035 (Framework for the a model for smart standards, standards that are machine Installation of Energy Efficiency Measures in Existing applicable, readable and transferable. This blueprint for Dwellings) in support of the Government’s ‘Each Home our future was presented at several global standards Counts’ initiative. industry events, where it was received very positively. • IEC 31010 (Risk Assessment Techniques). • ISO 14090 (Adaptation to Climate Change). ‘We launched a more agile standards • ISO 27701 (Privacy Information Management). development process, based on During the year, we reorganized a number of our collaborative authoring in a digital activities, creating separate teams for our engagement work with priority sectors and for the management of environment, that produces iterative our Committees. A third team is now dedicated to deliverables within weeks.' supporting clients to implement standards through the delivery of technical assistance and consulting projects on strategy and roadmapping. Engaging with our stakeholders We have been investing in new ways to reach and Building Information Modelling (BIM) for the understand the needs of more and more stakeholders, Built Environment is a good example of our so that we can meet their expectations for standards commitment to support the uptake of standards. development, strategy and policy. We concluded three Following the publication of the new ISO 19650 years of work with the United Nations Economic Council (Building Information Modelling) series at the start for Europe (UNECE), leading the development of a UN of the year, we collaborated with the Centre for Digital declaration on gender-responsive standards and Built Britain (CDBB) at Cambridge University and the standards development. The declaration, signed by BSI UK BIM Alliance to launch and host a new UK BIM in April, has now been signed by over 50 countries. Framework website, which provides an overarching approach and guidance for industry implementation. Our BSI Standards Conference, held in November, In addition, we are developing a community of interest which featured our annual Standards Awards, external for CDBB for Digital Twinning, a major area of digital speakers and panel discussions, attracted its largest transformation in the Built Environment. ever attendance of over 300. We included new categories of awards to recognize individuals and organizations Developing our digital capability working on education about standardization and for 2019 saw increased investment in our capabilities standards users. We also used the Conference to in digital services and technology development. launch our own ‘Inclusive as Standard’ initiative, which We carried out ethnographic research into how aims to increase the diversity of the standards developing customers discover, interpret and adapt standards to community, create an inclusive standards development drive business benefit, and we have used the findings environment, and lead ultimately to the development to support future strategy. In standards development, of standards that are, by their nature, inclusive from speed of delivery is a constant message. As a result, we the outset. launched a more agile standards development process, based on collaborative authoring in a digital environment, Influencing internationally that produces iterative deliverables within weeks instead Standards play a vital role in reducing barriers to of the much longer period that formal standards trade around the world and, throughout 2019, we development can take. This agile process is helping continued to work on several fronts to maintain the us to respond to market needs in fast-moving areas status of international standards supporting global and will bring the benefits of a consensus-based trade and influence. Our work to deliver the programme approach, adapted to the accelerated timescales of of UK Government funded projects and activities via industries and sectors that experience rapid change. the Commonwealth Standards Network (CSN) has Our first project is to develop a common vocabulary steadily grown. The programme seeks to increase the for Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAV), part adoption and implementation of international standards of a wider programme of work supported by the across the Commonwealth, to increase levels of Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles. intra-Commonwealth trade, enhance economic prosperity and support positive developmental outcomes. CSN Our research shows that the nature of standards needs membership grew during 2019 to 49 national standards to change to improve their usefulness. We participated bodies representing 92% of Commonwealth countries which, in two CEN and CENELEC pilot projects, aimed at defining how future standards could be drafted to make them easier to use by people and machines. We led on a collaboration with colleagues in ISO, IEC, CEN and CENELEC to elaborate bsigroup.com 33 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Standards review continued Influencing internationally continued We discussed the increased relevance and potential for between them, account for over 99% of international standards to help ordinary businesses offer intra‑Commonwealth trade. The CSN delivered deeply their goods and services around the world and tackled embedded technical assistance programmes in five a number of specific trade challenges. countries: St. Lucia, Vanuatu, Papua New Guinea, Uganda We also signed new memoranda of understanding and Zambia, provided an additional 24 training sessions with several other international partners, including across the Commonwealth and launched a portal to serve the Directorate for Standards, Metrology and Quality, an online community of Commonwealth members and Vietnam (STAMEQ), the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) stakeholders. We hosted the second annual meeting Standardization Organization (GSO), the Standards of the CSN during the week of the ISO 2019 General Organization of Nigeria (SON) and the Ecuadorian Assembly in Cape Town and were pleased with the interest Service for Standardization (INEN). These agreements that this project is generating, both from Commonwealth will facilitate the exchange of best practice in support partners and from other countries around the world. of international standardization activity and will act The newly established Knowledge Services team as a platform to support the increased use of British was awarded contracts to help governments in Standards in international markets, in support of UK the Middle East region to review and revise national trade objectives. building codes in line with international best practice. Supported by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Supporting the UK Government and public interest (FCO) Prosperity Fund, we launched two major business Our relationship with BEIS, as the lead UK Government standards programmes in China and India. The programme department responsible for standardization, has been in China is focused on increasing the adoption and use central to our work during the year. Our primary link is of international standards, improving the quality of Chinese through the Office for Product Safety and Standards proposals submitted to the international standards bodies (OPSS). We benefited from frequent contact with ministers and improving the understanding of the economic and officials at all levels of Government, underpinned and social impact of international standards in China. by our continued programme of staff secondment to The parallel programme in India is focused on the ease BEIS and the Department of International Trade (DIT). of doing business and on developing India’s future cities. Alongside policy matters, we undertook specific projects to address stakeholder needs, including PAS 7050 (Specification for Safe Products), sponsored by ‘Our relationship with BEIS, as OPSS, to be published in 2020. the lead UK Government department To support the work of the Industry Reference Group Competence Steering Group (IRG CSG), established responsible for standardization, following the Grenfell tragedy to improve the has been central to our work during competence of people working on higher risk residential buildings, I chaired a stakeholder process that developed the year.' recommendations for a new overarching framework of national standards on competence. Widely welcomed BSI’s bilateral co-operation work with our counterpart by industry and the UK Government, the proposed new in China, Standardization Administration of China (SAC), standards will set out the competence required for the led to the renewal of our co-operation agreement, further vital roles overseeing the design, construction and strengthening a relationship that has been built over operation of in-scope buildings. the past fifteen years. The UK–China Standardization Included in the public consultation during the summer, Co-operation Commission has gone from strength to the proposed framework standards will be developed strength in the last five years and we hosted the 2019 during 2020 under the direction of a dedicated meeting in Manchester, where we discussed the progress steering group. of our joint working groups on smart cities, graphene, remanufacturing and civil nuclear power, as well as the Government and Innovate UK have continued to role of international standards to support China’s ‘Belt recognize the benefits of focusing on standards to and Road’ initiative and China’s new ‘Standardization accelerate innovation and create international leadership 2035’ strategy. I was pleased to be able to facilitate a for the UK. They have supported the launch of major meeting between Dr Tian Shihong, Director of SAC and new programmes of work encompassing research, Vice Minister of the State Administration for Market standards strategies and standards development in Regulation (SAMR), and the minister responsible for areas such as Connected and Autonomous Vehicles standards, Kelly Tolhurst, MP of the Department for (CAV), the Faraday battery challenge, the future of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). mobility, energy smart appliances, digital manufacturing, sustainable finance and the energy efficiency of non-domestic buildings. Following a Government White 34 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Paper on the subject, and in response to a specific request from BEIS Ministers, we worked with partners in the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) and the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS) to develop a paper on ‘Standards for the Fourth Industrial Revolution’. This sort of collaboration will allow us to develop further the concept of the UK Quality Infrastructure (UKQI) and to make the case for the role of standards to promote and accelerate the development of technologies to support the growth and development of the UK economy. Evolving with the changing global role of the UK Standards have the potential to support future trade deals between the UK and other countries as they represent an international consensus that both parties can easily adopt. We continue to see strong stakeholder We renewed our co-operation agreement with our counterpart, interest in all issues around standards in the post-Brexit Standardization Administration of China. era and have responded with briefings and position papers. During the year I was pleased to be appointed to the Department of International Trade (DIT) Strategic Trade Advisory Group (STAG), along with representatives from business, labour, academic and industry associations. I was re-elected as Vice-President (Policy) of ISO and Although international standards are, first and foremost, have been leading discussions on ISO’s strategy to a market-led activity, in all countries they have an 2030. David Bell, Director of Standards Policy at BSI, important role in supporting regulatory policy. Around has occupied the BSI seat on the ISO Council during 57% of British Standards are also European Regional my Vice-Presidency term, and we are very grateful to Standards. BSI’s membership of the private sector Rodney Turtle, from Schneider Electric UK Ltd, who has organizations CEN and CENELEC provides UK stakeholders been the UK representative on the IEC Council Board with the opportunity to influence and agree these during the year. standards. As the UK looks to shape a new trading relationship with the European Union and EFTA countries, we have been very active with the UK Government, our ‘We are grateful to our Committee industry and other stakeholders and with our colleagues members, from all sectors and across the 33 other countries in the European regional system to determine the optimal arrangements for communities, who work with us to our future participation. agree the practices that will shape Throughout the years following the Brexit referendum, we have emphasized the role of standards in supporting the future of business and industry.’ the economy, the UK Government and consumer and public policy interests, informing the public and industry Conclusion and briefing the UK Government on the challenges and For BSI, in its role as the NSB, 2019 saw a dramatic opportunities in the field of international standards. and sustained increase in interest in the role of Our intention has been to reflect, as accurately as standards from all our stakeholders within the UK and possible, the views of our stakeholders, who have internationally. It was an exciting year and the support supported overwhelmingly the continuation of the of the Board and the Group Executive has been critical present standards system in the UK as the best way for to enable us to respond effectively to these demands UK industry to increase trade, protect consumers and whilst ensuring that we continued to support the needs support the UK Government’s domestic policy agenda. of our stakeholders. We are especially grateful to our As over 95% of new standards published each year by 12,700 Committee members, from all sectors and BSI are of international origin, it is vital that we play our communities, who work with us to agree the practices part across the entire international standardization that will shape the future of business and industry. system. Our influence at the top table of international standards making has never been higher. UK experts participate in more international committees than any other country. My colleagues and I participate in the Scott Steedman governance of the five major private sector international Director of Standards and European standards organizations (ISO, IEC, CEN, CENELEC and ETSI) of strategic importance to the UK. 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 35 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial review LONG-TERM financial strength Overview BSI delivered strong financial results again in 2019, with record levels of revenue. Profit fell slightly behind 2018 levels, due to the increased investments in resource and systems infrastructure but was in line with internal expectations. Cash and deposits at year end were marginally behind the balance at the end of 2018, as a result of the investments, two acquisitions and another significant contribution to the UK defined benefit pension scheme. Net asset value increased during the year, predominantly from the profits retained during the year and the reduction in the deficit of the UK defined benefit pension scheme. 2019 was a fairly quiet year for the global trading environment, despite continued uncertainty over Brexit and some concerns over possible trade wars between some of the larger players. In 2018, we profited from eight and a half months’ enhanced revenue from the additional work generated by the transition to a new version of our most important standards, ISO 9001 (Quality Management) and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management). As the transition period ended in 2018, 2019 revenue in our Assurance Services stream did not benefit from this and comparatives were adversely affected. On average, Sterling was weaker in 2019 than 2018, compared to our other trading currencies, and revenue and profit were enhanced accordingly. BSI is fortunate in having a very broad spread of business across business streams, geographies, sectors and domains. As such, our overall results are less susceptible to shifts in macro-economic trends. In 2019, we were able to report higher levels of revenue than ever before in our long history. In addition, the Group’s net asset value increased, and the deficit of our UK defined Craig Smith, Group Finance Director benefit pension scheme fell during the year. We ended 2019 with significant funds in the bank and no external debt. BSI remains in robust financial health. 36 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Exchange rates performance of the streams are given in the We report our results in Sterling and, as an international Business review on pages 23 to 26. business, are affected by movements in exchange rates Underlying operating profit of other currencies, particularly our major trading currencies of the Australian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Euro, Japanese Yen and US Dollar. We mitigate the effect £58.3m -6% of this by matching revenues and costs in these currencies wherever possible and by repatriating excess 19 £58.3m currency back to the UK as soon as we can, so that it 18 £61.8m may be invested. 17 £59.5m We translate our balance sheets into Sterling at 16 £50.1m year-end exchange rates. For our income statement we 15 £35.4m use a weighted average rate. The exchange rates we used for our major trading currencies in 2018 can be Underlying operating profit seen in the table on page 40. In recent years we have invested heavily in the The Group has significant operations outside the UK infrastructure and resource of BSI to build a stable and so has exposure to currency fluctuations. Note 3 platform for profitable growth in line with our strategic to the consolidated financial statements shows the plan. These investments, both in capital and revenue translational exposure that the Group would suffer terms, increased still further in 2019 as we continued should any of the major currencies in which it trades to invest to support the new management structure move by 10% against Sterling. If all currencies moved of BSI as described last year, and increased levels of by 10% against Sterling in the same direction, the demand from clients, especially in our Regulatory impact to underlying operating profit (UOP) would be Services stream, where revenue grew by 29%. Despite around £2.5m (2018: £3.2m). this significant investment, which will drive profit in the future but was a net cost in 2019, UOP only fell by 6% Revenue from 2018 to £58.3m in 2019. £548.1m +7% As with underlying revenue, there are several components of this decrease. Organic UOP at constant exchange rates fell by 9% (2018: 5% increase) and there was a £1.7m or 19 £548.1m 3% uplift from the first-time implementation of IFRS 16, 18 £511.9m Leases (2018: nil). There were no material impacts from 17 £473.0m our acquisitions (2018: 1%) nor the changes in the value 16 £401.8m of Sterling between 2018 and 2019 (2018: 2% loss). 15 £331.1m Gross profit margin Revenue BSI Group revenue increased by 7% in 2019 to £548.1m (2018: £511.9m). Organic revenue growth at constant 46.3% -0.6ppt exchange rates was 4%, lower growth than in recent years as a result of the end of the transition period to 19 46.3% the new versions of ISO 9001 (Quality Management) 18 46.9% and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management). This was 17 46.6% enhanced by 1% inorganic growth, from the two small 16 47.8% acquisitions completed during the year, and 2% due to 15 46.9% changes in the average values of our trading currencies against Sterling between 2018 and 2019. The overall At an overall Group level, our gross profit margin fell growth meant that our underlying revenue continued slightly from 46.9% in 2018 to 46.3% in 2019. In a group its trend of increasing every year since 1999 and of companies such as BSI, with such a wide geographical reached its highest level in the 118-year history of spread and diverse blend of business streams, mix can the Institution. have an impact on overall margins. Most of this reduction can be explained by our Regulatory Services Each of our four global business streams reported overall stream which, despite growing by 29% in terms of revenue growth in 2019. Our Knowledge stream grew revenue, recruited heavily in delivery resource during by 2% (2% at constant exchange rates), our Assurance 2019 to service expected further growth in 2020. This Services stream by 2% (1% at constant exchange rates), new resource is unproductive until it has reached the our Regulatory Services stream by 29% (26% at constant end of a long and rigorous training period, and exchange rates) and our Consulting Services stream by temporarily drives down margins. 3% (0% at constant exchange rates). Consulting Services’ organic revenue at constant exchange rates actually declined by 5% during the year. Further details of the bsigroup.com 37 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial review continued Underlying operating profit continued a single location in Warsaw, Poland. The cost of this IFRS 16, Leases has been applied for the first time in restructuring has resulted in an exceptional item of 2019. All material leases, whether previously classified £1.3m (2018: £nil). as operating or financial leases, are now shown on the balance sheet. The lease expense, previously reported Operating profit in operating expenses, was split in 2019 between an £8.6m charge for depreciation of the assets (2018: £nil) and an interest expense of £2.2m (2018: £nil). As a £54.7m -3% result, 2019 UOP has benefited from a credit of £1.7m (2018: £nil). 19 £54.7m 18 £56.5m Selling and distribution costs grew faster than revenue, 17 £55.3m increasing by 10% on their 2018 value. This increase 16 £47.3m reflects the continued high level of investment in this 15 £34.1m area, to develop our new global business stream and focus sector structure and to invest in sales resource As a result of the above, the total exceptional costs in 2018 across the world. Administrative expenses increased were £3.6m (2018: £5.3m). This meant that our operating by 9% and depreciation and amortization to £21.0m profit for the year was £54.7m, a decrease of 3% over (2018: £12.5m), with the increase due to the implementation the 2018 figure of £56.5m. of IFRS 16. Net foreign exchange gains, resulting predominantly from the repatriation of funds to the Finance income and costs UK in line with our treasury policy, were £0.2m in 2019 The Group continued its policy of repatriating (2018: £0.3m loss). On average, Sterling was weaker excess cash to the UK as soon as possible and investing than in 2018 compared to our other trading currencies its cash reserves proactively during 2019 but finance but these gains or losses also depend on the timing of income continued to be low due to the current prevailing repatriations during the year. interest rates at which we were able to invest. As a result, finance income was £0.4m (2018: £0.5m). We have no These levels of selling, distribution and administration debt and so our finance costs related predominantly to costs resulted in an UOP of £58.3m (2018: £61.8m). This the net interest cost on the liability of our UK defined gives rise to an UOP margin of 10.6%, lower than the benefit pension scheme and lease liabilities brought 12.1% reported last year, due to the higher levels of onto the balance sheet under IFRS 16 and were £3.9m investments made during 2019, whose benefits will in 2019 (2018: £1.9m). Profit before tax decreased by be enjoyed in future years. 7% from £55.1m in 2018 to £51.2m in 2019. Underlying operating profit margin Taxation 10.6% -1.5ppt The Group effective tax rate (ETR) on profits before tax in 2019 was 28.5% (2018: 29.2%). Eliminating the prior year adjustments arising on underprovided UK and foreign tax the current year ETR was 28.1% compared 19 10.6% to 29.0% last year. 18 12.1% 17 12.6% However, we consider the ETR on UOP, which excludes 16 12.5% the tax impact of the financing costs and exceptional 15 10.7% items, to be a better indicator of the tax management of the operating businesses. In 2019 the ETR on UOP Exceptional items and operating profit was 26.7% (2018: 27.9%). The mix of the differing tax The consideration paid for many of our recent rates between the countries in which we make our acquisitions has included some element of deferred profit can create fluctuations in the overall rate. amount payable to employees three years after the Profit for the year acquisition date should certain employment criteria be met at this time. This amount is accrued over the three years following the acquisition and these costs of £36.6m -6% £1.2m (2018: £1.7m) have been separately reported as an exceptional item in the 2019 accounts. There were 19 £36.6m also other acquisition costs of £1.1m (2018: £0.2m). 18 £39.0m In 2019, we completed the reorganization of our 17 £36.8m Assurance Services stream’s European operations, 16 £31.4m moving our planning, scheduling and compliance and 15 £23.7m risk functions from out of our European units into 38 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Balance sheet and cash flow Cash and deposits £85.1m The net asset value of the Group increased by £29.1m or 16% in 2019, from £178.3m to £207.4m. The main contributors to this were the profit for the year of -2% £36.6m (2018: £39.0m) and the reserves element of the decrease in the deficit of the UK defined benefit 19 £85.1m pension scheme, offset by the effect of foreign exchange 18 £86.8m differences and the implementation of IFRS 16 “Leases”. 17 £67.8m BSI remained highly cash generative during 2019, with 16 £48.1m cash generated from operations, before contributions 15 £51.0m to the UK defined benefit pension scheme of £61.7m Debtor days were unchanged in 2019 at 62 (2018: 62 days). (2018: £63.6m). Major cash outflows during the year This Group average depends on the geographical, included £7.6m on acquisitions (2018: £0.6m), capital business stream and industry sector mix of our revenue expenditure of £18.0m (2018: £10.9m) and a contribution and the customary terms of trade encountered in our to the UK defined benefit pension scheme of £13.5m different markets. There is also, occasionally, a push (2018: £13.5m). from some of our clients to receive longer payment Net asset value terms. These are sometimes granted for commercial reasons. However, there were no significant bad debts £207.4m +16% during 2019, with receivables written off amounting to 0.3% of revenue at £1.7m (2018: £1.0m) and no material change in the relative ageing of our 19 £207.4m outstanding trade receivables. 18 £178.3m Pensions 17 £120.3m The deficit of the Group’s UK defined benefit pension 16 £82.9m scheme decreased by £14.3m, or 20%, from £71.7m 15 £78.4m to £57.4m. This represents a reduction of £46.7m, We continued to invest in our information and or 45%, over the past three years. communications technology infrastructure, with a A contribution was made to the scheme during the particularly large investment in 2019 relating to the year, in accordance with the schedule of contributions Workday Human Resources software that was agreed with the Pension Trustee, of £13.5m (2018: £13.5m). implemented globally during the year, as well as in more There was a net interest cost of £1.7m (2018: £1.9m) and client-facing programmes such as British Standards operating expenses of £0.7m (2018: £0.5m) recognized Online (BSOL), the BSI eShop website, our Compliance in the consolidated income statement. No further Navigator product, Entropy Software, and Supply Chain exceptional cost relating to the Guaranteed Minimum Solutions offerings. Included in this capital expenditure Pension (GMP) equalization exercise was incurred in figure was an investment of £0.8m in the development 2019 (2018: £2.5m). of new training courses (2018: £0.7m). At the end of 2019 we had zero debt and held cash UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit and deposits of £85.1m, 2% down from the figure of £86.8m at the end of 2018 due to the increased level of investments during the year. This means that, in 2020, £57.4m -20% we are again well placed to fund any prospective acquisitions or other investments internally. Although 19 £57.4m the Group is debt free, it recognizes the occasional 18 £71.7m need for external funding and held bank overdraft 17 £90.0m facilities of £2.7m (2018: £2.7m), on an unsecured basis, 16 £104.1m at the end of 2019, although none were utilized. The 15 £70.9m Group maintains regular contact with its main banks and is confident of being able to secure debt facilities should these be required. Counterparty credit risk with banks exists but we consider this to be low. bsigroup.com 39 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial review continued Pensions continued recognized on the balance sheet in relation to these The discount rate used when calculating the liability of the schemes at 31 December 2019 was £2.2m (2018: £1.9m) pension scheme is determined by reference to market and a contribution of £0.2m (2018: £0.2m) was paid yields on high quality corporate bonds. The discount rate into these schemes during 2019. used in 2019 was 2.0%, a decrease of 0.85 percentage points on the rate used last year (2018: 2.85%). This Treasury decrease was predominantly responsible for a £50.5m A Banking Committee ensures that all treasury activities increase in the overall deficit during the year due to are conducted in accordance with the Group treasury changes in financial assumptions. However, this was policies maintained and updated by the Board. Treasury mitigated by a gain of £14.3m resulting from changes operations are subject to independent reviews and to demographic assumptions, a gain in the value of the audits, both internal and external. assets in the scheme of £31.0m, experience gains of The principal aim of these policies is to manage and £8.4m mainly due to recalibration to the 2019 funding monitor the Group’s funding requirements, optimize net valuation membership data and the £13.5m contribution interest cost after tax and manage financial risk arising referred to above. We seek to be close to the midpoint in from the international nature of the business of the the range of possible market assumptions in the valuation Group, particularly in terms of interest rates and foreign of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme and exchange. Policy prohibits holding or issuing financial confirm this with our external advisors each year. instruments for trading purposes so credit risk in this The Group remains committed to reducing the deficit area is minimal. further and works closely with the Pension Trustee to do so. A triennial valuation of the scheme took place Accounting policies with an effective date of 31 March 2019 and a schedule Details of all the principal accounting policies used by of contributions has been agreed with the Trustee that the Group appear in Note 2 to the consolidated financial is expected to eliminate the deficit by 30 June 2023. statements. The Group has implemented IFRS 16, “Leases” This schedule requires a contribution of £12.9m in and IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” January 2020, which has been made, and then monthly with effect from 1 January 2019. Full details appear in contributions of £1.3m thereafter. A payment of £13.5m Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. was made into the scheme in March 2019, satisfying the Group’s obligations under the previous schedule of contributions relating to the triennial valuation with an effective date of 31 March 2016. In addition to the UK defined benefit pension scheme Craig Smith the Group operates small defined benefit pension Group Finance Director schemes in Taiwan, Germany, Indonesia and the 27 March 2020 Philippines which provide benefits based on final pensionable salary and service. The net liability Exchange rates Year end Year end Average Average 2019 2018 2019 2018 Australian Dollar 1.88 1.79 1.84 1.79 Chinese Renminbi 9.17 8.67 8.83 8.83 Euro 1.17 1.10 1.14 1.13 Japanese Yen 143 140 139 147 US Dollar 1.31 1.27 1.28 1.33 40 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Sustainability review SUSTAINABLE development for a resilient world Our commitment Sustainability is part of our purpose at BSI. We are proud to be a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, and I am delighted to share our first UN Global Compact progress report. Our strategy BSI was established in 1901 with responsibility to society as one of its main objectives and this has never been more relevant than it is today. The development of our 2020 to 2024 strategic plan, following directly after signing up to the UN Global Compact, provided an opportunity for us to revisit our approach to social responsibility and take a more holistic ‘sustainability’ path. We wanted to ensure that our plan would be anchored in BSI’s founding purpose, as set out in our Royal Charter and our values, and would encompass our current and future activities, not just those intended to be philanthropic, using the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a credible and communicable basis for our strategy. As a result, we are, henceforth, renaming this review the ‘Sustainability review’. ‘We mapped our activities to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to determine where we are best placed to focus our efforts.' Our Social Responsibility team worked with our in-house Consulting Services Sustainability team and Stephen Page, Chair of the Sustainability Committee undertook extensive external research to define our new strategy. We reviewed best practice, engaged in-house subject matter experts, leaders and Board members, looked at what employees, clients and other stakeholders expected from us, and mapped our activities to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to determine where we are best placed to focus our efforts to further these global objectives. bsigroup.com 41 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Sustainability review continued Our strategy continued Our services and solutions Recognizing that all the goals are interconnected, The world’s leading management systems and that our Royal Charter requires us to facilitate standards, ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 partnerships, we decided to focus primarily on SDG 17 (Environmental Management), ISO 45001 (Occupational (Partnerships for the goals). Due to the nature of our Health and Safety Management), ISO 27001 (Information activities, we also identified six more goals that BSI is Security Management) and ISO 37001 (Anti-Bribery and well placed to advance, namely: Corruption) all originated as British Standards. Given the scale of our operations relative to the reach of • SDG 3 (Good health and wellbeing). our standards, stakeholders and clients, our greatest • SDG 7 (Affordable and clean energy). contribution to sustainable development is through the work we do with others. • SDG 8 (Decent work and economic growth). We continue to play a leadership role in the • SDG 9 (Industry, innovation and infrastructure). development of standards related to sustainability. For • SDG 11 (Sustainable cities and communities). example, in 2019 we published the following standards: • SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production). • ISO 14090 (Adaptation to Climate Change), the world’s first standard in this important area. Our sustainability strategy will be implemented across the Group. We will frame our approach to sustainability • PAS 2030, PAS 2031 and PAS 2035 (Framework for using the United Nations Sustainable Development the Installation of Energy Efficiency Measures in Goals and will continue to map our activities against Existing Dwellings) in support of the Government’s them and our contribution to them. ‘Each Home Counts’ initiative. Mapping our activities to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 42 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Howard Kerr, Chief Executive, visited our charity partner, Rays BSI donated computers to the Cyber Green Group in the US. These are repurposed to teach of Hope, to learn about the various programmes it runs in coding and to improve the understanding of the importance of cyber security. South Africa. • BS 67000 (City Resilience) with support from the • ISO 26000 (Social Responsibility). World Bank, UNISDR, UN Habitat, OECD and • ISO 24000 (Sustainable Procurement). representatives from UK cities, to help protect critical resources, create and sustain opportunities for • ISO 20121 (Sustainable Events). enterprise and empower individuals, communities and • ISO 37122 (Sustainable Cities and Communities). places to adapt and prosper. This rich portfolio of standards and our related services • ISO 27701 (Privacy Information Management), a new and solutions to clients particularly underpin SDG 17 standard to help organizations manage operational (Partnerships for the goals) as well as, ultimately, controls in the new era of privacy, regulatory and the many individual SDGs. compliance requirements such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We updated ISO 22301 (Business Continuity ‘Our sustainability strategy will be Management) to reflect the latest thinking in this area. implemented across the whole of BSI.' BSI is also leading new standard development in the areas of sustainable finance and decarbonization in collaboration with the UK Government and other stakeholders. We are fortunate to be in a unique BSI helps support capacity building position to work with our clients to help them BSI seeks to promote the use and awareness of international standards further their own contribution to the United Nations and improve technical and institutional capacity to use and develop Sustainable Development Goals, offering assurance, these outside the UK. For example, BSI leads the Commonwealth Standards regulatory and consulting services relating to important Network, which received additional UK Aid funding to continue to facilitate standards such as: Commonwealth trade and poverty reduction through the increased use of • BS 8001 (Circular Economy). international standards. BSI also renewed its agreement with China’s Standardization Administration of China (SAC) on the recognition • ISO 50001 (Energy Management). of voluntary standards for business and industry. This memorandum of • ISO 14064 (Greenhouse Gas Verification). understanding further strengthens the important role that standards play in underpinning trade between the UK and China. bsigroup.com 43 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Sustainability review continued Our operations complete these training modules and a test to ensure that To support our strategy, the UN Global Compact principles they understand our policies for sustainable procurement, on human rights, labour practices, anti-corruption and health, safety, the environment and quality (HSEQ), the environment are incorporated into our policies and competition law and our impartiality code. We regularly procedures. It is our policy to implement appropriate undertake internal audits to ensure that our policies are relevant standards internally to enable and strengthen implemented and take corrective action where necessary. our own resilience as we act to enable a more resilient We undertook a detailed review of our practices regarding world. In addition to the guidance of ISO 26000 (Social human rights, labour practices and the environment at Responsibility), we adopt the principles of ISO 9001 (Quality the end of 2018 and actioned the findings during 2019. Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management), Our colleagues are invited to voice their opinions ISO 45001 (Health and Safety Management), ISO 22301 through regular surveys, and we continued to implement (Business Continuity Management), ISO 27001 (Information initiatives and track progress against the four areas that Security Management) and BS 65000 (Organizational were raised as opportunities for improvement in 2017, Resilience) and seek independent assurance where relevant namely Wellbeing, My Manager, Fair Deal and Giving and appropriate. We regularly review the level of assurance Something Back. We conducted a Pulse Survey in 2019 required to manage risk. that showed improvement in three of these four areas. We remain certified to ISO 9001 (Quality Management), We also undertook a specific Diversity and Inclusion ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and ISO 27001 Survey to understand what we were doing well and (Information Security Management) for our Corporate where we could improve. We have instigated a forum for Centre and Knowledge business in Chiswick, UK. In 2019, employee engagement so colleagues can voice concerns we transitioned our OHSAS 18001 certification to directly to the Board and receive a conclusive response. ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management), We reviewed and updated our whistle-blowing which requires increased employee consultation and procedures in 2019 to facilitate and reinvigorate this participation on health and safety matters. We also process. All details are on our website. extended our ISO 27001 (Information Security The establishment of a new global procurement Management) certification to include our regional department has enabled us to take a more strategic headquarters in Herndon (Americas), Milton Keynes approach to these decisions. We continue to (EMEA) and Hong Kong (APAC). We are on track to extend communicate our Sustainability Code, which details our the scope of our health and safety certification to cover zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery with all of the entirety of our UK businesses by the end of 2020. our significant suppliers. We have started to ask high-risk It is important to us that we provide our colleagues suppliers to declare in writing that they adhere to this code with the appropriate knowledge to enable them to be and now include this in our supplier packs. In 2020, we successful. As part of our compliance training schedule, will start to use our Supplier Compliance Management we issued training on our Code of Business Ethics, (SCM) tool to conduct supplier due diligence. Further anti-bribery and corruption, workplace behaviour information about our approach to tackling modern (anti-bullying and harassment) and information security slavery can be found in our Slavery and Human in 2019. As new colleagues join BSI, they are required to Trafficking Statement on the BSI website. Colleagues in Singapore volunteered for the Tanah Merah Beach Clean-Up. Colleagues wore green to raise awareness on World Environment Day. 44 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 We are very conscious of our environmental footprint and the opportunities for better resource and energy BSI helps manage carbon across the value chain management and continued to raise awareness throughout Developed by BSI in partnership with the Construction Leadership Council’s the year. For example, on World Environment Day many Green Construction Board, PAS 2080 (Carbon Management in Infrastructure) colleagues wore green and raised awareness on social provides a consistent framework for evaluating and managing carbon across media as part of our 'BSI Goes Green' campaign. the whole infrastructure value chain. One of the world's leading project We also celebrated our services and solutions that development and construction groups underwent an independent help to facilitate environmental protection, such as assessment with BSI, including rigorous on-site auditing covering all the ISO 14001 (Environmental Management). To support requirements of PAS 2080, to help provide a framework to support its the implementation of our HSEQ and Sustainability Policy, carbon reduction. we introduced a Green Office Checklist Campaign where we reviewed the environmental impact of our sites and identified opportunities for improvement. There were We are always looking at better, more sustainable notable initiatives, aimed at improving the environmental ways to deliver our services and solutions to our clients. performance of our sites. For example, we acted to reduce We regularly use virtual training in the US, and this is single-use plastic, offering a discount to colleagues being increasingly adopted in other countries. In 2020 who bring their own cups to our cafeterias. In addition, we will continue to transition from printed to digital all colleagues globally received a reusable water bottle as training course materials globally. Technology is changing part of our Wellbeing programme. These proved extremely the way we conduct audits, and we have started to use popular and provided an opportunity to demonstrate smart wearable glasses and utilize drone technology. environmental and ethical sourcing principles. Each year we audit and consult for approximately 325,000 days. Immersive or remote auditing will ‘We are always looking at better, play a key role in reducing our carbon footprint. more sustainable ways to deliver our services and solutions to our clients.' Greenhouse gases We account for our greenhouse gas emissions in line with ISO 14064 received a ‘good’ rating, the highest of the three ratings for ESOS (Greenhouse Gas Verification), the protocol corporate standard and audits. Some minor recommendations were made and are being UK Government guidance, to ensure that we account for significant implemented where appropriate. We have identified business travel greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within our operational control. We as an area where we can more actively manage our GHG emissions measure our emissions every six months and include our significant globally and updated our Group Travel Policy to include more scope 3 emissions from our six largest operating countries. We have environmental principles. This will be issued in 2020. set 2017 as our baseline year using an economic intensity ratio, based on Group revenue, to enable comparison of performance over time. Greenhouse gas emissions 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) 2019 2018 baseline year It is pleasing to report that our overall GHG emissions remained in line with 2018 despite the increased activity of our business, which Scope 1 emissions 4,000 4,200 4,000 resulted in a lower overall intensity ratio. Scope 1 emissions fell during Scope 2 emissions 2,000 2,200 2,500 2019, mainly due to a reduction in motor vehicle mileage and are Scope 3 emissions 13,200 12,800 10,200 in line with our baseline year result. Our scope 2 emissions have decreased each year since 2017, due predominantly to an increasing Total 19,200 19,200 16,700 proportion of renewable energy used by our sites in the UK and the realization of benefits from our global initiatives such as the Intensity ratio (tCO2e/£m revenue) implementation of solar panels at our office in Delhi, India. Scope 3 Scope 1 7.30 8.20 8.46 emissions increased from 2018, but at a lower rate than our revenue Scope 2 3.65 4.30 5.29 increase. Our intensity ratios fell for each of the three scopes of emissions. In 2020, we will continue to look at ways to reduce our Scope 3 24.09 25.00 21.56 GHG emissions and intensity ratios. Our global carbon footprint is Total 35.04 37.50 35.31 measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). Emissions are shown in compliance with the Department for Environment, Food and Definitions Rural Affairs (Defra) GHG Reporting Guidance and have been Scope 1 emissions arise directly from sources that are owned or controlled calculated using the latest conversion factors published by Defra by BSI, including fossil fuels burned on site and vehicles. and the International Energy Agency for overseas electricity data. Scope 2 emissions arise indirectly and result from the off-site generation of electricity, heating and cooling purchased by BSI. Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) audits were undertaken Scope 3 emissions include air travel for our six largest operating countries, by The Carbon Trust at Chiswick and Hemel Hempstead sites and for Australia, China, India, Japan, the UK and the US. the UK fleet. Both the Chiswick and Hemel Hempstead, UK, sites bsigroup.com 45 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Sustainability review continued Our people There are areas where we have some work to do and Our ambition remains to enable each person to fulfil we have put in place a Global Inclusion Working Group, their potential at BSI in an environment of openness and employees drawn from all parts of BSI. The group has trust. During 2019, we made substantial progress with been tasked with developing action plans to move our Diversity and Inclusion agenda. With the help of forwards on areas for improvement. At the same time, our external partner, Global Diversity Practice, we each of the Group Executive team attended a workshop undertook interviews and focus groups and completed on Diversity and Inclusion and have instigated similar our first global Diversity and Inclusion Survey to workshops for their own leadership teams. Each of these understand the issues that are important to our people. workshops have resulted in local actions. The survey, which had 30 questions, was completed by Our Board of Directors is now 78% male, following 62% of our colleagues, and has given us a richness of the appointment of a male Non-Executive Director in both quantitative and qualitative data to work with May 2019. The proportion of male and female senior going forward. managers, and in our total workforce, has not Our people are, generally, very positive about changed significantly since 2018. working at BSI, with an overall positivity rating of over 75%. Our commitment to Diversity and Inclusion is ‘Our ambition remains to enable viewed positively by 82% of colleagues, and 83% of respondents agreed that we are striving to develop a each person to fulfil their potential more inclusive culture. It was particularly pleasing to at BSI in an environment of find that 92% of respondents feel that their colleagues respect them, which was the most positive response openness and trust.’ across all the survey statements. This is clearly a strong foundation upon which to build. Colleagues in the UK spent their volunteer day gardening to support a Colleagues in the US supported children with learning difficulties local park. to learn to ride bicycles. 46 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 22+78+Q Directors Female 22% BSI helps address excessive working hours 2018: 25% BSI supported the supplier of a leading global brand to identify the cause of excessive working hours in one of its sites. The supplier had identified Male 78% 2018: 75% consistently high worker turnover as one potential cause. Over the next twelve months, BSI provided on-site, online and telephone support through its Supplier Compliance Manager (SCM) workflow and reporting platform. 29+71+Q The programme reduced annual worker turnover from 18% to 3%, reduced production defects and rework and enabled the supplier to re-establish its control over working hours, improving the wellbeing of its employees. Senior managers Female 29% 2018: 29% We have also awarded 30 scholarships to students in Male 71% Vietnam. In the UK we hosted 30 apprenticeships, six 2018: 71% internships with the social mobility charity Career Ready and over 40 work experience placements and delivered our first cause-marketing campaign whereby we donated 46+53+1Q £10 to the homeless charity Crisis for every training course sold in the UK. The funds provided over 440 vulnerable people with access to hot food and shelter. Total workforce Several of our offices collected and donated books, Female 46% IT equipment and other equipment to benefit students 2018: 46% in education and their wider communities. M  ale 53% 2018: 54% ‘We have supported many of our  nknown 1% U colleagues’ fundraising activities 2018: 0% across the Group through our match-giving scheme.’ Our communities Conclusion We actively support our colleagues to contribute We are proud to partner with our many stakeholders to their local communities through charitable giving to take meaningful action to further the United Nations and volunteering. We have supported many of our Sustainable Development Goals and inspire trust for a colleagues’ fundraising initiatives across the Group more resilient world. through our match-giving scheme. Our colleagues have chosen to support various local charitable causes though fundraising and volunteering. The causes supported include cancer research, clean water, education, supporting deaf and disabled people, disaster relief Stephen Page efforts, heart disease, homelessness, mental health, Chair, Sustainability Committee men’s health, orphaned children, and wildlife conservation. 27 March 2020 Our global charity partnership with Room to Read encourages girls’ education in India and, during 2019, our colleagues raised money to fund over 180 girls to stay in secondary education in India, helping to change their lives and their local communities. We have been shortlisted for a British Chamber of Commerce award for education equality in recognition of our support for girls’ education in China. We continue to work with local charities to facilitate access for vulnerable children to education in Malaysia and South Africa and awarded a student bursary at the University of Pretoria, South Africa. bsigroup.com 47 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance 49 Introduction by the Chairman 50 Board of Directors 52 Group Executive 54 Corporate governance report 59 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements 60 Report of the Audit Committee 64 Report of the Nominations Committee 66 Directors’ remuneration report 76 Directors’ report 48 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Introduction by the Chairman Maintaining HIGH STANDARDS of governance to ensure that their views are understood, and their interests considered in our decision-making process. In 2019, we established a formal process to map our key stakeholders and how we engage with them, with the intention of monitoring more systematically our impact on them and their influence on BSI. With no stock exchange listing, BSI is not required to apply the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the ‘Code’). However, we have, for many years, complied with the Code, where possible, as if we were a listed company. In doing so, we have established internal governance processes that reflect best practice. Ultimate accountability for the governance of BSI lies with our Board of Directors, the majority of whom are Non-Executive Directors who can draw on their considerable experience in diverse areas of business. The Board is supported by Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committees, of which the Chair and the majority of members are Non-Executive Directors. In addition, the Standards Policy and Strategy Committee, which is an advisory committee informed by the views of those interested in standards, does valuable work in gathering John Hirst, Chairman and distilling information on standardization matters to advise the Board. Underpinning this governance framework, and our internal controls and financial management, is the The British Standards Institution BSI Code of Business Ethics. This sets the ethical values and high standards of integrity that are embedded in the was founded in 1901 and, reflecting its culture of our organization and apply to every aspect public service aims, was incorporated of the way that we do business. The BSI Code of by Royal Charter in 1929. Business Ethics may be found on our website at www.bsigroup.com/codeofethics. Our purpose, which we summarize as ‘inspiring trust for a resilient world’, is set out in full in our Royal Charter and gives us our public interest objectives. As a non-profit distributing company, we value our growth and profitability because they increase our capacity to make an impact and fulfil our purpose. John Hirst Consistent with our purpose, our duty to our stakeholders Chairman and our unique status as the UK National Standards Body, we are committed to the highest standards of corporate 27 March 2020 governance. This is fundamental in building and retaining the trust of all our stakeholders. We have always been mindful of our wider stakeholder group and our need bsigroup.com 49 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board of Directors Our Board continues to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience. John Hirst CBE A N S Howard Kerr N S Craig Smith FCCA Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Skills and experience John Hirst was appointed Skills and experience Howard Kerr was appointed Skills and experience Craig Smith joined the to the Board in October 2018 as Non‑Executive to the Board in November 2008 and assumed Board as Group Finance Director in August 2011. Director and became Chairman in January 2019. the position of Chief Executive in January 2009. A Chartered Certified Accountant, he began his John has a wealth of experience leading and After a period at Associated British Ports, his career in 1985 with Coats Viyella PLC, undertaking transforming complex organizations. His early early career was spent in business development finance roles in Australia, Spain, the UK, Morocco, career was with ICI, beginning in finance before roles in the fields of shipping, logistics and B2B Hungary and Finland. Following his return to the progressing into various leadership roles and marketing with Inchcape PLC in the UK, Japan, UK in 1997 he worked as European Finance serving on the group executive team as Chief China and the Middle East. Subsequently he Director for two large American corporations and, Executive of the speciality chemicals division. joined SHV Holdings NV, where he held general immediately prior to joining BSI, he was Group Then he became Group Chief Executive of management positions in the energy division, Finance Director of two UK-listed companies, Premier Farnell, a FTSE 250 electronics including Chief Executive of Calor Group Ltd, Huntleigh Technology PLC from 2003 to 2007 distribution company, and in 2007 he joined the UK, and Senior Vice-President on the and Management Consulting Group PLC UK’s Met Office as Chief Executive until 2014. International Management Board of from 2007 onwards. SHV Gas in the Netherlands. Other appointments John is Senior Other appointments None. Independent Director of Anglian Water Other appointments None. Services and a Non-Executive Director of Marsh Limited. He is Chairman of the National Oceanography Centre. Scott Steedman CBE SP Lucinda Riches CBE A N R Alison Wood A N R Director of Standards Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Scott Steedman joined Skills and experience Lucinda Riches was Skills and experience Alison Wood joined the the Group in January 2012 and was appointed appointed advisor to the Board in May 2011, Board in September 2014 as Non-Executive to the Board in October 2012. An engineer Non-Executive Director in May 2012 and Senior Director. She spent nearly 20 years at BAE by background, he started his career at the Independent Director in October 2015. She Systems PLC in a number of strategy and University of Cambridge before moving to was an investment banker for over 20 years at leadership roles, including that of Group industry where he spent over 20 years as a SG Warburg and its successor firms, ultimately Strategic Director, and was the Global Director consultant working in the Built Environment as Global Head of Equity Capital Markets and of Strategy and Corporate Development at sector. He was a Non-Executive Board Member a Board Member at UBS Investment Bank. National Grid PLC from 2008 to 2013. She of the Port of London Authority from 2009 to She has held Non-Executive Director positions has held Non-Executive Director positions 2015 and served as Vice-President (Policy) for at UK Financial Investments Ltd and Diverse with BTG PLC, Thus Group PLC, e2v PLC the European Committee for Standardization Income Trust PLC. and Cobham PLC. (CEN) from 2013 to 2017. Other appointments Lucinda is Non-Executive Other appointments Alison is Non-Executive Other appointments Scott is Vice-President Director and Chair of the Remuneration Director and Chair of the Remuneration (Policy) of the International Organization Committee at Ashtead Group PLC, Senior Committee at Costain PLC and TT Electronics for Standardization (ISO). Independent Director at ICG Enterprise Trust PLC. She is also Non-Executive Director at PLC and Non-Executive Director at CRH PLC Cairn Energy PLC. and Greencoat UK Wind PLC. 50 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Stephen Page N R SP S Douglas Hurt FCA A N R Ian Lobley A N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Stephen Page joined the Skills and experience Douglas Hurt joined the Skills and experience Ian Lobley joined the Board in September 2015 as Non-Executive Board in November 2015 as Non-Executive Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2019. Director. Stephen has a wealth of boardroom Director. Douglas started his career at Ian is a Managing Partner at 3i Group PLC, experience in the opportunities and risks of PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he qualified the FTSE 100 international investor, where he the digital age, as well as corporate risks such as a Chartered Accountant. From there he joined is also a member of the Investment Committee. as cyber security and counter-terrorism. At the GlaxoSmithKline Group, where he held many With over 30 years of experience in private Accenture he held European and global leadership senior roles including Managing Director, Glaxo equity, he has been an active investor in and roles including worldwide Managing Director, Wellcome UK. In 2006 he joined IMI PLC and board member of portfolio companies in many Strategic IT Effectiveness. For the past fourteen was Group Finance Director until February 2015. countries and sectors. He graduated in years he has held a portfolio of board and Chemical Engineering from the University of Other appointments Douglas is Senior senior advisory positions. Birmingham and, prior to 3i, worked as an Independent Director and Chair of the engineer for BOC Speciality Gases. Other appointments Stephen is Non-Executive Audit Committee of Vesuvius PLC and Director of TSB Banking Group PLC and Countryside Properties PLC. Other appointments Ian is Non-Executive Nominet UK. Director of 3i Infrastructure PLC, AES Engineering and Cirtec Medical within 3i’s global portfolio. 22+78+Q 11+33+56Q Board gender diversity Board tenure Female 22% <1 year 11% Male 78% 1–5 years 33% 5+ years 56% Grainne Brankin Company Secretary Skills and experience Grainne Brankin joined 33+67+Q the Group in June 2017 as General Counsel and Company Secretary. Grainne qualified at Board composition Committee membership Clifford Chance and has wide experience of A Audit Committee international governance, risk and transactions, Executive 33% in particular in technology and media. She has Non-Executive N Nominations Committee held General Counsel and executive committee 67% R Remuneration Committee positions at Yahoo!, CBS Outdoor, Exterion Media and Centaur Media PLC. S Sustainability Committee (formerly known as the Social Responsibility Committee) Other appointments None. SP Standards Policy and Strategy Committee Committee Chair bsigroup.com 51 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Group Executive Our Group Executive Our Group Executive team has many years of experience successfully managing all aspects of complex global businesses. Our Group Executive reflects the new structure of BSI. Chaired by the Chief Executive, it comprises the leaders of the four global business streams, the Group Commercial Director, the Director of Standards and the heads of the global Finance and IT, Human Resources and Legal functions. The Group Executive supports the Chief Executive in running the business and delivering the strategy of the Group. Howard Kerr Craig Smith Chief Executive Finance Director 30+70+Q Group Executive gender diversity Female 30% Male 70% 20+40+Q Shirley Bailey-Wood MBE Pietro Foschi Executive tenure Director, Information Solutions Director, Assurance Services <1 year 20% 1–5 years 40% 5+ years 40% 52 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Scott Steedman CBE Grainne Brankin Kelvyn Harris Director of Standards General Counsel Interim Human Resources Director Manuela Gazzard Thorsten Querfurt Harold Pradal Director, Regulatory Services Director, Consulting Services Commercial Director bsigroup.com 53 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance report Excellence in The Board The Board is the governing body of BSI and leads the Chairman Role and responsibilities governance • Leads and manages the Board. organization through a Sets the agenda, style and tone framework of prudent and of discussions and promotes open debate, effective decision effective controls. It sets making and a unitary culture the commercial strategy • Ensures that the Group does of BSI in accordance with business in a highly ethical way Governance framework Royal Charter and is worldwide and that its Code of The Board of The British Standards Institution is committed to the highest collectively responsible Business Ethics is maintained standards of corporate governance, which it considers fundamental to the and observed for the long-term success success of the business. The British Standards Institution is governed by of the Company in line its Royal Charter and Bye-laws. The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) with its purpose. Regulations 2018 require BSI to specify the governance regime it follows and in 2019 BSI continued to apply the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the ‘Code’), wherever relevant to its constitution and operation as a Royal Charter Company without shareholders. In particular, the provisions of the Code relating to shareholders are not applicable to the Company (E.1 of the Code). Directors are not subject to re-election at the AGM each year (B.7.1 of the Code) but must be re-elected at the AGM following their appointment. One-third, rounded down, of other Directors stand for re-election at each AGM, as Board Committees Standards Policy and required by the Bye-laws of the Company. The Board has Strategy Committee established Committees Role and responsibilities An overview of how the Board has fulfilled its duty, set out in Section 172 to help ensure that BSI • Provides an independent focal of the Companies Act 2006, to promote the long-term success of the meets best practice in point for the views of all current and potential future stakeholders Group, considering the interests of the Group’s stakeholders, including the corporate governance. The in the work of BSI Standards to impact of its activities on the community and environment, is set out on Board delegates certain assist in developing and pages 76 and 77 of the Directors’ report. establishing the strategic of its responsibilities direction and policy in national, to these Committees. European and international The Board Formal Audit, Nominations standards forums The Board is the governing body of the Company and is collectively and Remuneration • Provides advice on current responsible for the success of the business. It provides leadership to the Committees have been strategy, objectives and organization within a framework of prudent and effective controls that priorities for the development put in place in line with of standards enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board operates within the the Code. • Acts as an advocate for the use terms of a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision; other of voluntary standards and for decisions are delegated to management. The Board has ultimate responsibility BSI’s role as the UK’s National for ensuring compliance with the Company’s Royal Charter and Bye-laws, Standards Body and for the Company’s strategy, management, organizational structure, • Monitors and makes financial reporting, internal controls, risk management, approval of significant recommendations on the suitability and effectiveness contracts, acquisitions and disposals, determination of corporate policies, of BSI’s technical committee raising of finance, remuneration of senior management, appointments to structure and membership the Board and Board Committees and corporate governance.  tandards review on S In 2019 the Board comprised John Hirst, who became Chairman on pages 32 to 35 1 January 2019, the Chief Executive, Howard Kerr, and two further Executive Directors, Craig Smith and Scott Steedman, responsible for finance and standards, respectively. Douglas Hurt, Stephen Page, Lucinda Riches and Alison Wood were Non-Executive Directors throughout the year. On 1 May 2019 Ian Lobley was appointed as a Non-Executive Director. The Directors of Executive Committees the Company and their roles are given in their biographical details on These Committees are responsible for pages 50 and 51. the implementation of agreed strategy and the day-to-day operation of BSI. There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the organization, The Committees are chaired by the which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board. The Chairman Chief Executive and report to him. is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring that the Directors receive the information they require for their roles. He also facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors as a key part of the Board including their role in constructively challenging and helping to develop proposals on strategy. The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business and the leadership of an effective Executive team to deliver the business objectives of the organization. The Board has established formal procedures for the disclosure and management of any actual or potential conflicts of interest. 54 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Group Chief Executive Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities • Provides a sounding board for • Contribute to the development • Responsible for the key areas • Leads the Executive team and the Chairman and appraises the of the organization’s strategy of finance and standards is accountable for the Group’s performance of the Chairman in performance, consistent with the evaluation process • Scrutinize and constructively • Responsible, with the Chief Executive, the strategy, controls, culture challenge the performance of for the operational implementation and risk appetite agreed by • Acts as intermediary for other management in the execution of the Group’s strategy the Board Directors if needed of strategy • Bring their knowledge of the • Ensures that the flow of • Deputizes for the Chairman • Advise and contribute to operations of the organization information to the Board is if necessary Board debate based on their and its business environment to accurate, timely and clear broad business experience the deliberations of the Board and professional skills • Develops and maintains • Help to set the longer-term effective management systems Company Secretary strategy and shorter-term goals and internal controls Role and responsibilities of the organization as part of the • Acts as chief governance officer unitary Board • Supports the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties • Available to all Directors for advice and support Sustainability Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee (formerly known as the Social Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Responsibility Committee) • Monitors the integrity of the • Determines the structure, size • Determines the policy for the Role and responsibilities Group’s financial statements and and composition of the Board remuneration of the Chairman, reviews significant accounting the Chief Executive, the Executive • Reviews the Group’s policies and reporting judgements • Considers succession planning Directors, the Company Secretary and practices in the areas for Directors and other senior and Executive management of sustainability against • Monitors the effectiveness executives, considering the agreed targets of the organization’s internal challenges and opportunities • Determines the total individual control framework and Internal facing the Company, and the remuneration package of the • Helps determine the focus Audit department skills, knowledge, experience Chairman, each Executive Director, of the Group’s commitment and diversity needed on the the Company Secretary and other to sustainability • Oversees the relationship with, Board in the future designated senior executives, and work of, the external auditors, including bonuses and long-term • Makes recommendations ensuring no conflict of interest • Makes recommendations in to the Board regarding incentive payments relation to the re-election of sustainability policies • Reviews the Group’s Directors retiring by rotation • Approves the design of, and whistle-blowing process and determines targets for, any • Maintains the Group’s charitable procedures for detecting and  ommittee report on C donations policy and oversees performance related pay schemes preventing fraud and bribery pages 64 and 65 operated by the Company and charitable donations made by the Group • Monitors and reports to the approves the total annual payments Board on the performance of made under such schemes S  ustainability review on the Company’s responsibilities  ommittee report on C pages 41 to 47 and obligations to HM Government in respect of its activities as the pages 66 to 75 UK’s National Standards Body Committee report on pages 60 to 63 Group Executive Banking and General Code of Conduct Information Security Role and responsibilities Purpose Committee Oversight Committee Steering Committee • Implements agreed Board Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities strategy through the operational • Oversees the Group’s banking • Acts as a high-level governance body • Monitors the risks to the Group of management of BSI relationships and general to determine issues arising from the malicious or inadvertent access or • Operates in line with established treasury management Impartiality Code of Conduct misuse of corporate data or systems risk management frameworks, • Comprises the Chief Executive • Manages the separation or • Reviews the measures in place to compliance policies, internal and the Finance Director and co-operation of activities between prevent such incidents and monitors control systems and reporting meetings are attended by key the different parts of BSI, in plans to strengthen defences further requirements members of the Group’s Treasury accordance with the Impartiality and Finance functions Code of Conduct, to prevent • Oversees projects to obtain • Embeds BSI’s values and culture external information security throughout the Group potential conflicts of interest certification where appropriate bsigroup.com 55 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued Stakeholder engagement In order for the Company to meet its responsibilities to stakeholders, Board meeting attendance the Board has to ensure effective engagement with them and The attendance of Directors at Board meetings is indicated encourage their participation. In 2019 the Board adopted a formal in the table below. process to monitor stakeholder engagement at Board and senior Attendance Jan Mar May Jun Jun Jul Sep Dec management levels of the Company. The Board regularly considers the identification and prioritization of stakeholders and whether its Chairman relationships with key stakeholders are being managed appropriately. John Hirst1 The Board ensures that it has effective engagement mechanisms in Executive Directors place to gain a clear understanding of the views of key stakeholders Howard Kerr so that their interests and the matters set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 can be considered in Board discussions Craig Smith and decision making. Scott Steedman1 Non-Executive Board balance and independence Directors The Board continues to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience. Douglas Hurt Ian Lobley2 The Board has determined that the Chairman was independent on his appointment and that all the Non-Executive Directors are considered Stephen Page independent for the purposes of the Code. The British Standards Lucinda Riches Institution’s Bye-laws require that the total number of Executive Alison Wood Directors may not exceed the total number of Non-Executive Directors. Accordingly, at least half the Board comprises Attended Did not attend Non‑Executive Directors in accordance with the Code. 1 Appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2019. 2 Appointed with effect from 1 May 2019. Lucinda Riches is the Senior Independent Director and meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman When not able to attend meetings, members reviewed the papers in advance and passed their comments to the Chair. After the meeting they being present. received a debrief from the Chair. Rotation of Directors In accordance with the Company’s Bye-laws, Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following their first appointment by the Board. Additionally, questions set were based on those from earlier years with the one-third, rounded down, of the other Directors are required to responses reviewed and analysed internally. The conclusion from retire by rotation and stand for re-election at each Annual General the process was that, while the Board was effective and working Meeting. The Bye-laws also require the Chairman to be elected well, there was always potential to improve. annually by the Board. It was agreed to implement the changes suggested from the evaluation, which included a greater understanding of client perspective, brand and Board meetings marketing strategy, talent and succession, risk management as a driver There were eight meetings of the Board during the year ended of behaviours, Board training and development and Board space, pace 31 December 2019. The Board is regularly briefed on financial and purpose. The process also confirmed that the Board Committees performance as well as risks, uncertainties and future prospects. were effective and working well but suggestions for their continuing In addition to regular updates and formal items, matters considered improvement would be actioned. and agreed upon during 2019 are shown in the table opposite. Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available Evaluation, training and support to all Directors. When appointed, new Directors are provided with a An evaluation process is carried out annually to support continuing full and tailored induction in order to introduce them to the business improvement in Board, Board Committee and individual Director and management of the Group. A programme of introductory effectiveness. The intention is to have this process led by an training and site visits was provided to Ian Lobley when he joined external facilitator at three-year intervals. Independent Board the Board in May 2019. The Directors are supplied with the best Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited, facilitated the available information in a form and of a quality to support them evaluation in 2017, and the Board agreed that BSI should facilitate in the decision-making process. The Board is supported by the the review itself again in 2019, a process which has been undertaken Company Secretary, who is available to give ongoing advice to and completed. In order to provide consistency, assess change all Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance. and build upon the benefits of the previous years’ processes the There is a procedure for Directors to have access, if required, to independent professional advice, at the expense of the Company. 56 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Board Committees Audit Committee The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to standing The Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things, Committees described in more detail below. These Committees recommending the appointment of auditors, reviewing the annual have written terms of reference that set out their authorities and financial results, considering matters raised by the auditors and duties which are reviewed annually. The Non-Executive Directors overseeing the internal control system operated by the Group. play an important governance role on these Committees. The • A report by the Audit Committee, including details of its Board considers that the membership of the Audit Committee, membership, is set out on pages 60 to 63. Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee and their terms of reference are in line with the Code’s recommendations Nominations Committee and best practice. The Nominations Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending the appointment of all Directors to the Board. During the year all the Committees considered the findings of the evaluation process and, apart from the Standards Policy and Strategy • A report by the Nominations Committee, including details of Committee, reviewed the effect of the revised corporate governance its membership, is set out on pages 64 and 65. requirements on their responsibilities. Board focus during 2019 January May September • Proposed investments • Proposed investments • Acquisition of AppSec Consulting • Risk registers and the related drafting • Business transformation update • Talent management strategy and for the Annual Report • Corporate purpose update succession planning process • 2018 preliminary results • Impartiality Code of Conduct • Risk Register compliance report • Stakeholder engagement process compliance • Approval of the strategic plan • Preparations for the Annual General 2019–2024 March • Chairman’s and Non-Executive Meeting • Business update on Assurance Directors’ fees including accreditation compliance June (two meetings) • Proposed investments • Proposed investments • Employee engagement • 2018 results and approval of the • Review of strategy with the Group’s • Stakeholder engagement process Annual Report and Accounts Executive management December • Business update on customer • Strategic plan 2019–2024 • Annual evaluation of the Board and its satisfaction, Net Promoter Score • Risk Register compliance report Committees and feedback • Executive-led strategic review (India) • Business update on Knowledge • Update on the progress of the stream reorganization • Risk Register compliance report organizational development plan • Business update on potential • Regulatory Services Transformation • Strategic plan 2019–2024 consolidation in the Assurance market Programme • Human Resources update • Whistle-blowing reports from the • Succession plan for key leaders • Stakeholder engagement process Audit Committee • Corporate governance revisions • Stakeholder engagement process update, including workforce and stakeholder engagement initiatives July (ad hoc) • HR systems transformation • Adoption of updated terms of reference for the Board and its Committees • Consideration of BSI’s cyber security and information resilience • Approval of the 2020 budget • Workforce engagement bsigroup.com 57 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued Board Committees continued system of internal control. This review involves the identification Remuneration Committee of actual or potential risks to the Group which may have an impact The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing the on its objectives, together with controls and reporting procedures terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors designed to address and mitigate those risks. These controls are and the senior management team, including the provision of reviewed, applied and updated, whenever appropriate, throughout incentives and performance related benefits. the year. • The Directors’ remuneration report, which includes details The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are detailed of the Remuneration Committee’s membership, is set out on on pages 27 to 29. pages 66 to 75. The process of requiring senior levels of management to provide Sustainability Committee an annual Letter of Assurance provides formal confirmation that (formerly known as the Social Responsibility Committee) governance and compliance matters have been properly addressed. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for guiding As part of the internal control environment there is a comprehensive the commitment of the Group to sustainability. financial management, financial control and governance framework. • The Sustainability review is set out on pages 41 to 47. Quarterly financial and operational reviews are undertaken throughout the Group by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and Standards Policy and Strategy Committee the Board reviews a full financial report and commentary every month. The principal objective of the Standards Policy and Strategy The Group’s Internal Audit function is responsible for auditing and Committee is to bring together the views of stakeholders monitoring the application of financial procedures and practices interested in standards and standardization activities in order throughout the Group. The Head of Internal Audit and Risk reports to advise the Board on the strategic policy of the organization functionally to the Group Finance Director but has full and open in the national, European and international standards arenas. access to the Audit Committee. The Committee is chaired by Dan Byles, who was appointed to replace Carol Sergeant CBE, retiring on 1 July 2019. The Committee’s The Group’s internal control system is designed to manage, rather members include Scott Steedman, Director of Standards, and than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Stephen Page, Non-Executive Director, with the Chairman and and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Group Chief Executive in attendance. material misstatement or loss. There is an ongoing process, established in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal • Details of standards activities are given by Scott Steedman, Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014, for Director of Standards, on pages 32 to 35. identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the organization, which has been in place during the year under Internal control review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and The Group has a robust and effective system of internal control financial statements. supported by review and assurance processes. Underpinning the formal internal control system is the BSI Code The Board recognizes that it is responsible for the system of internal of Business Ethics, which sets out the ethical values and high control in the Group and takes direct responsibility for reviewing and standards of integrity that the Group aims to put at the forefront maintaining the effectiveness of those controls which are considered, of all its activities. at each Board meeting, as an integral part of the meeting’s discussions. No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified. By Order of the Board The Group’s internal control system is set out in a comprehensive Group Compliance Framework, to which all BSI employees have access on the organization’s intranet. The Group Compliance Framework is designed to provide a level of assurance that adequate controls are John Hirst applied and is considered by the Board and updated when appropriate. Chairman The Group has a risk and compliance function which monitors 27 March 2020 compliance with the Group Compliance Framework on behalf of the Board. The risk and compliance function provides a risk report to each scheduled meeting of the Board. This assists the Board in its review of significant business risks throughout the year as well as its consideration of the scope and effectiveness of the organization’s 58 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors of the parent company of the Group are responsible for each financial year. The Directors have prepared the Group for the maintenance and ultimate integrity of the parent company’s financial statements in accordance with International Financial website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and and dissemination of financial statements may of course differ parent company financial statements in accordance with United from legislation in other jurisdictions. Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The Financial Directors’ confirmations Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”, The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, and applicable law). Under UK company law, the Directors must not taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group give a true and fair view of the profit of the Group and the state of and parent company’s position and performance, business model affairs of the Group and the Company for that period. In preparing and strategy. the financial statements, the Directors are required to: In the case of each Director in office on the date the Directors’ • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; report is approved: • state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the European • so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Union, have been followed for the Group financial statements information of which the Group and parent company’s and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, auditors are unaware; and have been followed for the Company financial statements, • they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit in the financial statements; information and to establish that the Group and parent company’s • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable auditors are aware of that information. and prudent; and By Order of the Board • prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company will continue in business. The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Grainne Brankin Group and parent company and therefore for taking reasonable Company Secretary steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 27 March 2020 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and parent company’s transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Group and parent company and enable the Directors to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. bsigroup.com 59 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Report of the Audit Committee Introduction by Douglas Hurt, Chair of the Audit Committee During the year ended 31 December 2019 the Committee comprised: Douglas Hurt (Chair) Lucinda Riches John Hirst Ian Lobley (from 1 May 2019) Alison Wood (from 6 December 2019) On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has primary responsibility The Committee is also responsible for the relationship with the for addressing financial risk in the Group and works with the Group external auditors and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process, Finance Director and the Finance team and is aided in its work by which assessment considers the quality of the audit and the expertise BSI’s Internal Audit department and the external auditors, to ensure and judgements of the auditors. The Committee is responsible for areas of financial risk are being identified and mitigated. In the context ensuring that possible conflicts of interest with the external auditors of a developing environment of governance and regulation the are identified and avoided, including by monitoring the operation Committee helps BSI make sure that financial reporting is compliant of the Group’s policy on the engagement of the external auditors to as well as fair, balanced and understandable. supply non-audit services. The Committee approved the fees of the external auditors and recommended their re-appointment at the During the year, the Committee maintained its focus on ensuring Annual General Meeting. the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting by maintaining strong oversight over the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s While the Committee operates to a pattern of work around the Group’s internal financial controls and the internal control and risk annual reporting cycle, it also regularly considers matters in areas management system. that are key to managing risks, such as reviewing the ‘whistle-blowing’ process, anti-bribery measures and fraud protection activity as The Committee monitors the effectiveness of Internal Audit well as other financial compliance matters. The Committee in the Group’s overall risk management system. BSI‘s Internal reviewed the implementation of IFRS 16 and its impact on the Audit department does essential work in enhancing and protecting Group’s financial statements. Key activities of the Committee in organizational value by providing risk-based and objective assurance, 2019 are noted on page 62. advice and insight. The Committee reviews the work of the department with its head to ensure non-conformities and other issues are The Committee noted the FRC audit quality review results. In order detected by applying appropriate investigatory rigour and properly to address the findings the auditors undertook a programme to addressed with lessons learnt for the future. The Committee monitors enhance audit quality. the Internal Audit work plan in accordance with the risk-based Over the forthcoming year, the Committee will maintain its rigorous approach developed the previous year which is intended to focus oversight over the Group’s financial matters and in particular the the resources of the department on where they can be used most internal control framework and the assurance provided by the effectively. In 2019, an External Quality Assessment (EQA) was external auditors that go to ensure the accuracy and reliability of carried out by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors and the BSI’s financial information. It will also continue its work in ensuring Committee noted the strong performance of BSI’s Internal Audit that reporting on the Group’s performance, business model and function and its general improvement since the last EQA in 2015. strategy is provided in a clear and informative way. An Internal Audit self-assessment process was undertaken in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. While identifying some areas where the contribution of the function may be enhanced, its report noted the strong performance of BSI’s Internal Audit function and its general improvement from 2015, as measured against the Institute Douglas Hurt of Internal Auditors’ professional standards elements. Chair of the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of the external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and, prior to their audit, 27 March 2020 discussed and agreed with them the nature and scope of the audit. The 2019 audit continues to apply the risk-based approach to the audit plan designed to address the developing profile of the Group. 60 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 The Audit Committee Key responsibilities of the Committee The Committee is established by the Board under terms of These include: reference that are reviewed annually and were most recently • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company updated in December 2019. A copy of the Committee’s terms and the Group including consideration of the appropriateness of reference is available on the BSI Group website. of accounting policies and material assumptions and estimates adopted by management; Membership In determining the composition of the Committee, the Nominations • reviewing the content of the Annual Report to advise the Board Committee and the Board have selected Non-Executive Directors who on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable can bring an independent mindset to their role and who can help and provides the information necessary to assess the Company’s ensure that the required range of skills, experience, knowledge, and the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; professional qualifications and competence relevant to the sector • meeting with the auditors, in advance of the annual audit, to in which BSI operates is available to the Committee. consider and discuss the nature and scope of the audit; The appointment of a company chairman to an audit committee • considering and approving the role of the Internal Audit function is not in compliance with the recommendations of the Financial and monitoring its effectiveness; Reporting Council (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the ‘Code’). However, John Hirst joined the Committee upon his • reviewing the ‘whistle-blowing’ procedure; appointment to the Board on 15 October 2018. He is a member • overseeing the relationship with the external auditors as well as of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a fellow of the assessing the effectiveness of the audit process and the quality, Institute of Chartered Accountants and has a wealth of experience expertise and judgement of the external auditors; leading and transforming complex organizations. He currently holds a number of Non-Executive Director roles including in Marsh Limited • approving the fees of the external auditors and making and as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee recommendations for their appointment, re-appointment of Anglian Water Services. He continues as a member of the Committee and removal; following his appointment as Company Chairman on 1 January 2019, • developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the although not in compliance with the recommendations of the Code, external auditors to supply non-audit services; and so that the Committee can continue to benefit from his financial and business expertise. • meeting with the auditors without the Executive Directors being present. Douglas Hurt is a Chartered Accountant and has held many senior financial roles including Group Finance Director at IMI PLC. He is The Committee focuses its agenda on financial reporting risk and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at reviewing the continuing validity of critical accounting judgements Vesuvius PLC and Countryside Properties PLC. The Directors of and estimates. It considers risk in its broader sense to ensure that the Company and their roles are given in their biographical details appropriate financial controls are in place. The Committee reviews the on pages 50 and 51. Douglas Hurt, John Hirst, Ian Lobley and annual Internal Audit plan to ensure appropriate focus and resource. Lucinda Riches are considered to have recent and relevant The Committee provides challenge and support to the Group Finance financial experience. Director and Group Finance team. The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector Internal audit in which BSI operates. The Committee is responsible for the remit of the Internal Audit When appropriate, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, function and for monitoring the effectiveness of its work. In 2019 the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Tax and Treasury and the an EQA was carried out by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors Head of Internal Audit and Risk, along with the external auditors, are during which BSI’s Internal Audit function was independently assessed invited by the Committee to attend its meetings. The Committee is against the CIIA International Professional Practice Framework able to consider items of business without other parties being present. (IPPF). The EQA found that the Internal Audit function provides a professional and collaborative audit service. The EQA recommended some areas of further development and these were carried out. Audit Committee attendance It is intended that an EQA will be carried out regularly, with a The Committee met three times in the year ended 31 December 2019. self-assessment process against the IPPF elements undertaken Attendance Mar Jun Nov in the years between, and this was carried out in 2016, 2017, 2018 Douglas Hurt and 2019. During the year the Committee reviewed the Internal John Hirst Audit Charter to ensure the activity of the Internal Audit function is appropriate to the current needs of the organization. Ian Lobley1 Lucinda Riches Alison Wood2 Attended 1 Appointed with effect from 1 May 2019. 2 Appointed with effect from 6 December 2019. bsigroup.com 61 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee continued • approved the fee payable to the external auditors and agreed that an effective, high quality audit could be conducted for the fee; Activities of the Committee During the year the Committee, among other things: • considered occurrences of fraud and attempted fraud against the Group and reviewed the measures taken to help prevent • received and considered, as part of the 2019 year-end process, an further instances; audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on matters including audit progress and findings, quality of earnings, reporting matters, • considered and approved the external auditors’ letters of judgement areas, taxation, systems and controls, risk management, engagement and letters of representation; corporate governance and auditor independence; • received a comprehensive treasury and tax update and • reviewed the draft financial statements and the 2019 Annual Report monitored the Group’s response to legislative and regulatory and, after due consideration, recommended them to the Board; changes in these areas; • reviewed the implementation of IFRS 16 and its expected impact • considered and confirmed the procedures of the Company, as the on the Group’s financial statements; National Standards Body, for compliance with its financial obligations under the Memorandum of Understanding with the UK Government; • agreed the scope and content of the annual Letter of Assurance by senior managers of the Group and reviewed a report on the • monitored the progress of the finance transformation project; returns received; • reviewed the minutes of the Banking and General Purpose • agreed the 2019 audit plan with the auditors based on the risk-based Committee and discussed matters of interest with the Treasury approach adopted to address the developing profile of the Group; and Finance teams; and • agreed areas of audit focus with the external auditors which, for • received a regular update regarding Key Finance function staffing 2019, were primarily the detection of fraud in revenue recognition around the Group. and management override of controls, as well as the UK defined There is an annual work plan in place that specifies the key agenda benefit pension scheme’s valuation, impairment of goodwill and items for each scheduled meeting of the Committee. Those items intangible assets and other matters of potential risk; typically follow the annual reporting cycle with other regular items • received reports on issues raised through the Company’s included as appropriate. In addition, items are added to the agenda ‘whistle-blowing’ hotline and similar channels and ensured that to follow up on matters arising from previous meetings or on an ad proper processes were in place to investigate and address the hoc basis where matters require the consideration of the Committee. matters reported; During the year, the annual Committee evaluation process took • considered the Internal Audit department’s reports, looked place as set out in the ‘Evaluation, training and support’ section of at its findings from each location/business area and reviewed the Corporate governance report on page 56. The process confirmed and discussed with the Head of Internal Audit and Risk how that the Committee was working well and was effective and led to and when issues were addressed and closed; some valuable discussion. As a result of the 2019 evaluation process, in 2020 the Committee will focus on the Group’s control framework • approved an Internal Audit plan for 2020, based on a risk-based and consider how effectively all the Group’s assurance functions approach of principal risks overlaid with country risk with regard work together to cover the Group’s major risks, ensuring that there to the assurance map; are no major gaps or duplications; consider if there is scope in the • reviewed the results of the Internal Audit 2019 EQA against the Internal Audit plan for an increase in the number of value-added CIIA International Professional Practices Framework and audits of broader management processes; and place more monitored the actions taken by it in response; emphasis on the quality of the Group’s narrative reporting. • met the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of management; 62 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Significant areas of risk Higher Areas of risk considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the Pension year ended 31 December fund valuation Revenue 2019 were: Level of materiality recognition Significant risk Elevated risk Other key matters Impairment Implementation of goodwill Management and intangible of IFRS 16 override of assets controls Lower Taxation Lower Level of risk Higher The Committee addressed these areas by applying, with the external auditors that is not material is subject to thorough review by the auditors, a rigorous review of each. The Committee confirmed that Finance Director, in conjunction with the external auditors, to appropriate accounting treatment had been applied in each case. ensure there is no threat to the independence or objectivity of the external auditors. Any concerns that the Group Finance Director The Committee has power delegated by the Board, under its terms may have, and all other such matters, are discussed with the of reference, to maintain oversight over critical accounting judgements Chairman of the Committee and, if required, referred to the and estimates and discusses with the external auditors, where Committee for its consideration. appropriate, the proper application of accounting rules and compliance with disclosure requirements. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PWC) have been the BSI Group’s external auditors for more than ten years. There are no contractual External audit obligations restricting the Company’s choice of auditors. In 2013, in The Committee addresses the effectiveness of the external audit accordance with best practice, the Company undertook a re-tendering process by: exercise for the selection of the auditors. A thorough review • assessing the culture; skills, character and knowledge; quality process was carried out and PWC were retained as the Company’s control; and judgement, responsiveness and communications external auditors but with a new team. At least once every ten of the external auditors; years the external audit services contract will be put out to tender. PWC rotate the audit partner role at intervals of no more than • discussing with the external auditors the key controls they rely five years and Owen Mackney became PWC’s audit partner on to address identified risks to audit quality; for BSI at the beginning of 2018. • keeping the external auditors’ team under review to ensure The Committee considers that the relationship with the it has the necessary expertise, experience and understanding external auditors continues to work well and remains satisfied of the business, as well as having the time and resources to with their effectiveness. However, in light of the long tenure of carry out its audit effectively; and PWC, when the external audit services contract is re-tendered, • regularly reviewing, and feeding back to the external auditors, no later than 2023, PWC will not be invited to participate in the an assessment of their performance on matters including meeting process. The Committee has recommended to the Board that the audit programme, the thoroughness and perceptiveness of their PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as the Company’s reviews and the quality of their technical expertise. auditors at the 2020 Annual General Meeting. The fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit work By Order of the Board are set out in Note 7 to the financial statements. The ratio of audit work to non-audit work was 74:1. The Committee safeguards the external auditors’ objectivity by reviewing their report where they detail the measures they take Douglas Hurt to maintain their independence and manage any potential conflicts Chair of the Audit Committee of interest. BSI’s external auditor independence policies reflect best practice. Any proposed provision of non-audit work by the external 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 63 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Report of the Nominations Committee Introduction by John Hirst, Chair of the Nominations Committee During the year ended 31 December 2019 the Committee comprised: John Hirst (Chair from 1 January 2019) Douglas Hurt Howard Kerr Ian Lobley (from 1 May 2019) Stephen Page Lucinda Riches Alison Wood One of the main areas of focus of the Nominations Committee capabilities required, following an evaluation of the balance of (the ‘Committee’) during 2019 was Non-Executive Director succession. skills, experience, independence and knowledge required. It has In light of Alicja Lesniak’s term as Non-Executive Director coming then authorized the Chairman and Chief Executive to contract with to an end on 31 March 2018, a recruitment process was undertaken a recruitment consultant to seek appropriate candidates based on for a successor, led by John Hirst as Chairman. The Committee agreed merit, against the objective criteria set out in the description and, a description of the role and of the capabilities required, following in accordance with the Board Equality and Diversity Policy, paying an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence particular attention to the merits of diversity on the Board. Ridgeway and knowledge required. It then authorized the Chairman and Partners was selected to handle the agreed recruitment. This firm Chief Executive to contract with a recruitment consultant to seek has no connection with BSI other than having acted from time to appropriate candidates based on merit, against the objective criteria time, when selected, to assist with Board and senior level recruitment. set out in the description and, in accordance with the Board Equality During 2019, as is the Committee’s established practice, it and Diversity Policy, paying particular attention to the merits of undertook its annual rolling review of the Board and Committee diversity on the Board. Odgers Berndtson was selected to handle succession plan, having regard to the implications of the Group’s the agreed recruitment. This firm has no connection with BSI other strategic trajectory for the longer-term composition of the Board. than having acted from time to time, when selected, to assist with Considering the 2019–2024 strategic plan the Committee considered Board and senior level recruitment. A list of potential candidates whether there was any significant gap in the Board’s collective was drawn up by the recruitment consultants for the role and expertise that should influence succession planning and, while suitable candidates were considered in detail and interviewed it was agreed that there was no such gap at present, it was by John Hirst, Howard Kerr, other members of the Committee determined that the Committee would keep the matter under and the Executive Directors so that the final selection could be review. The Committee also received and discussed an update recommended by the Committee to the Board for appointment. from the Chief Executive on the Group’s talent and succession Following this process, Ian Lobley was appointed to the Board programme for the senior leadership team and intends to review on 1 May 2019 as Non-Executive Director. this regularly to help ensure that the Group has the appropriate Carol Sergeant’s term as Chair of the Standards Policy and talent in place to meet the opportunities and challenges arising Strategy Committee came to an end on 1 July 2019. Accordingly, from the implementation of its strategy. the recruitment process for a Chair to succeed her had been For 2020, in addition to addressing any Board recruitment as undertaken led by John Hirst as Chairman. Odgers Berndtson was necessary, the Committee will continue to consider the implications again selected to handle the agreed recruitment. A list of potential on Board composition of the Group’s strategic plan and will also candidates was drawn up by the recruitment consultants for the review the senior leadership succession plan for critical roles role, and suitable candidates were considered in detail and below the Board. interviewed by John Hirst, Scott Steedman and Stephen Page and other members of the Committee so that the final selection could be recommended by the Committee to the Board for appointment. Following this process, Dan Byles was appointed Chair of the Standards Policy and Strategy Committee on 1 July 2019 for an initial term of three years. John Hirst In light of Lucinda Riches’ term as Senior Independent Director Chair of the Nominations Committee coming to an end on 18 May 2020, the recruitment process for a further Non-Executive Director to succeed her is well advanced. 27 March 2020 The Committee has agreed a description of the role and of the 64 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 The Nominations Committee Board equality and diversity policy In 2019, the Committee maintained its continuing assessment The Board takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and follows an established Group-wide policy of using the talent on the Board. and skills available in all groups and communities in the countries in which the Group operates to build the strong team it requires The Committee is established by the Board under the terms to deliver the strategy for its business. of reference, reviewed annually, and most recently updated in December 2019. A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference The BSI Group uses job-related objective criteria in the selection is available on the BSI Group website. of candidates and when considering development opportunities. The Board applies the same policy to its own composition. Key responsibilities of the Committee When nominating new Directors, the Nominations Committee These include: carefully considers the balance of skills, experience and knowledge required for the Board to discharge its duties and responsibilities • reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board effectively in order to determine the desired attributes for particular and making recommendations to the Board on these matters; appointments. Such considerations pay particular attention to the • drawing up succession plans for the Directors; and merits of diversity. • maintaining an overview of the leadership needs of the Since all Board appointments are made on merit, taking the organization generally. benefits of diversity fully into account, the Board considers that it would be inappropriate to set targets for the percentage of female There is a continuing assessment of the balance of skills, knowledge, Directors. However, it will report annually on the diversity of the experience and diversity on the Board and a formal, rigorous and Board. Details of the gender distribution of the Board, as well as transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors. of senior management and employees in the Group as a whole, may be found in the Sustainability review on page 47. Activities of the Committee During the year the Committee, among other things: Nominations Committee attendance • made a recommendation to the Board regarding the annual re-appointment of the Chairman; The Committee met twice in the year ended 31 December 2019. Attendance Mar May • nominated the Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting; John Hirst (Chair) • undertook the recruitment process for the appointment Douglas Hurt of a Non-Executive Director; Howard Kerr • considered Board succession with regard to Board and Board Ian Lobley1 Committee weight and balance, considering both Executive Stephen Page and Non-Executive Directors; Lucinda Riches • undertook the recruitment process for a further Non-Executive Alison Wood Director and a new Chair of the SPSC; Attended • considered the organization-wide talent development programme 1 Appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2019. and succession planning and reviewed proposed action and resource plans; and By Order of the Board • reviewed the Group leadership’s competencies and leadership capabilities in the context of the new organizational structure. There is an annual work plan in place that specifies the key agenda items for each scheduled meeting of the Committee to ensure that John Hirst all formal matters have been addressed. Ad hoc meetings are held Chair of the Nominations Committee when necessary to consider particular matters, for example a 27 March 2020 recruitment to the Board. bsigroup.com 65 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report Introduction by Alison Wood, Chair of the Remuneration Committee During the year ended 31 December 2019 the Committee comprised: Alison Wood (Chair) Douglas Hurt Stephen Page Lucinda Riches In setting Executive remuneration and advising on the reward Maintaining an appropriate balance between annual and longer-term structure for the wider organization, the Remuneration Committee incentives is a key aspect of BSI’s remuneration strategy. With no (the ‘Committee’) aims to ensure alignment with the purpose of ability to draw on share capital BSI must build its cash reserves in The British Standards Institution. The Committee gives particular order to invest in the business and contribute to the longer-term focus to ensuring that overall remuneration levels are deemed strength of the Group to deliver its societal purpose. When reviewing to be appropriate with the ethos of a Royal Charter Company. the overall reward of the Executives, particularly the variable remuneration element, the Committee takes into consideration BSI’s Executives continue to drive the commercial success the extent to which the achievement of the rewards under schemes of the organization, so that growth in revenue, profitability and has positively contributed to BSI’s resilience in that way. cash reserves can increase BSI’s capacity to deliver on its purpose. The Committee fully recognizes that the quality of the Executive I am pleased to report that Group profit for the Annual Bonus leadership team is a key element in the achievement of the Group’s Plan (GPB) and revenue met the threshold targets set for 2019. strategy. BSI’s remuneration policy is, therefore, based upon the In setting the 2019 profit targets, the Remuneration Committee need to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors with the recognized that the Group would need to make a significant necessary drive, leadership and management skills in a competitive investment in Regulatory Services in 2019 to ensure that the international market for such individuals, while providing them business stream could meet client requirements and address with the incentive to deliver on challenging targets. the challenges of Brexit by setting up a new notified body in the Netherlands. In addition, the GBP structure was modified to ensure This report sets out performance and reward in 2019 and the policy that the scheme had the right balance of Group and business for 2020 for the Executive Directors. stream/sector KPIs to deliver the one BSI strategy. The targets Transparency in remuneration reporting is an important aspect were also adjusted to reflect the impact of acquisitions and to of good governance and this report aims to reflect developing exclude the impact of IFRS 16. best practice to the extent practicable for a company of BSI’s LTIP awards, intended to provide incentive for growth over a longer type and size. time scale, in accordance with the Group’s strategic plan, vested at the 30% level for 2019, in line with the thresholds for Group profit Performance and reward for 2019 for the LTIP (GPL) and revenue targets set in earlier years. In 2019, BSI delivered another strong financial performance achieving underlying organic revenue growth of 4% and maintained Discretionary decisions made in 2019 an underlying operating margin of 10.6%. In addition, the Group The Committee retains discretionary power regarding certain areas successfully implemented a number of strategic actions, including of Executive Directors’ remuneration. Other than with respect to the investment in core systems, which has significantly strengthened determination of GPB, the Committee did not exercise its discretionary both the Group and the NSB to address the opportunities and power with regard to Executive Director remuneration during 2019. challenges in implementing the next five-year strategic plan. Discretion was made for two newly appointed Executives to receive The Executive Directors’ variable remuneration for 2019 reflects prorated LTIP awards for the 2019 Award. their success in achieving the financial and strategic targets set. Further details may be found in the variable pay section on pages 69 and 71. 66 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Remuneration policy for 2020 The Committee has reviewed the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 as it applies to BSI as a non-UK listed entity. We plan to review our approach to the Executive pension policy and alignment to the wider workforce during 2020 as part of our ongoing benchmarking of Executive total reward and remuneration with the wider external marketplace. Therefore, there have been no revisions to the policy for 2020 and details are set out in the ‘Remuneration policy 2020’ table on pages 72 and 73. In keeping with prior years, the 2020 targets set for the Annual Bonus Plan will provide incentive to deliver excellence in execution with the focus on profit achievement over the forthcoming year. Targets for the LTIP award are intended to provide incentives to the Executive Directors to achieve the significant growth in revenue and profit by 2021 that are set out in the strategic plan. The targets for both schemes will continue to be challenging as the Group focuses on managing risk in the current volatile business environment. 2020 focus There are three areas of focus in 2020 for the Committee. First the Committee will continue to progress its review of the wider workforce remuneration strategy to ensure that we monitor progress in gender pay equality and pension provision alignment. We will solicit employee feedback on remuneration from the BSI Pulse Survey and from the BSI Colleague Forum that will be established in 2020. Second the Committee will review the approach to variable pay to ensure that the balance and structure of short and long-term incentives for the Executive and where applicable the wider workforce are effective in underpinning the execution of the Group’s strategy. Finally, the Committee will review our approach to the Executive pension policy and alignment to the wider workforce. Remuneration Committee attendance The Committee met four times in the year ended 31 December 2019. Attendance Jan Mar Sep Dec Alison Wood (Chair) Douglas Hurt Stephen Page Lucinda Riches Attended Alison Wood Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 67 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee • approved the Directors’ remuneration report in the Company’s The Committee is established by the Board under terms of reference 2018 annual report; that are annually reviewed, and which were most recently updated in • reviewed and agreed the Chairman’s fee to be approved at the AGM; December 2019. A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on the BSI Group website. • considered and agreed payments under the 2019 Group Bonus Plan and the LTIP awards granted in 2017; Membership • reviewed and agreed the remuneration packages for newly During the year ended 31 December 2019 the Committee comprised: appointed Executives; and • Alison Wood (Chair) • agreed the treatment of annual bonus and LTIP awards for Executives • Douglas Hurt who would be leaving the Group. • Stephen Page An annual work plan is in place that specifies the key agenda items for each scheduled meeting of the Committee. This largely revolves • Lucinda Riches around the annual financial results and the payments and awards When appropriate, John Hirst, Howard Kerr, Craig Smith, the which are related to them. Other matters are included to ensure that interim Group HR Director and the Group Rewards Director have the Committee acts in compliance with its terms of reference. been invited to the Committee to attend its meetings. Directors do not attend meetings in which their own remuneration is Aligning remuneration to the delivery of BSI’s strategy under consideration. The Executive Directors are responsible for implementing the Group’s strategy so that BSI can achieve its objectives. They must The Committee has access to specialist advice from executive reward strike a careful balance between managing the Group to achieve consultants when required. Advisors are appointed for specific work, excellent annual results while making the investments within the following a review of comparable firms, so that the Committee can be Group and the acquisitions that are required to secure longer-term satisfied that their advice is objective and independent. During 2019 goals and deliver on BSI’s wider purpose and goals. no external advice was sought as the previous year’s benchmark data from Willis Towers Watson was deemed to be fit for purpose The two variable pay elements within BSI’s Executive Directors’ to support the 2019 Executive salary review process. remuneration arrangements reflect this balance between near-term and longer-term ambitions. The Annual Bonus Plan is designed Key responsibilities of the Committee to ensure that the Executive Directors focus on annual financial These include: performance, primarily the achievement of Group profits, which provide the Group with its financial strength, while not neglecting • determining policy for the remuneration of the Group’s Executive revenue growth and personal objectives. management and other key staff, taking into account all factors the Committee deems necessary, including relevant legal and The LTIP is designed to encourage the Executive Directors to take regulatory requirements; a longer view, with challenging targets based on future revenue and Group profit objectives determined by the Board in line with • reviewing the continuing appropriateness and relevance of the the Group’s long-term strategy and taken from the 2019–2024 remuneration policy; strategic plan. Balancing these near-term and longer-term targets, • approving the design of, and determining targets for, any senior and the effect each has on the other, helps ensure an appropriate management performance related pay schemes operated by the balance of risk. Group and approving the total annual payments made under The Committee keeps the variable pay targets under continual such schemes; and review to ensure that they properly reflect the aspirations of the • reviewing Executives’ approach to establishing a baseline for wider strategic plan. workforce remuneration strategy. The Committee will continue to monitor the design and operation The Committee is delegated by the Board to determine and oversee of the Group’s variable pay elements to make sure they are effective the operation of the Group’s remuneration policy relating to in providing incentives to the Executive Directors to execute the senior management, excluding the Non-Executive Directors. Group’s strategy successfully and to achieve the objectives set out in the strategic plan. It will also keep the fixed pay elements under Activities of the Committee review to make sure the Executive Directors remain a stable and During the year the Committee, among other things: motivated team as they work towards the achievement of the strategic plan. • agreed salary increases for the Executive Directors and the Executive team; Each year the Board sets stretching targets for profit and revenue growth. Payments made to the Executive Directors for 2019 reflect • reviewed and confirmed the targets for the 2019 Annual Bonus the achievement of the 2019 Annual Bonus Plan targets, shown on Plan and 2019 LTIP awards page 70, and of the 2017 LTIP targets, also shown on page 70. 68 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2019 remuneration Single figure total (audited information) Variable pay receivable for 2019 Salaries and fees Taxable benefits1 Pension benefits2 Bonus LTIPs Total Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Director £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Executives Howard Kerr3 486 458 27 25 — — 211 200 73 360 797 1,043 Craig Smith 4 359 337 8 26 — — 123 120 42 206 532 689 Scott Steedman5 324 297 1 15 10 12 113 110 33 161 481 595 1,169 1,092 36 66 10 12 447 430 148 727 1,810 2,327 Chairman John Hirst6 165 9 — — — — — — — — 165 9 Sir David Brown7 — 161 — 6 — — — — — — — 167 Non-Executives Douglas Hurt 47 44 — — — — — — — — 47 44 Ian Lobley 8 28 — — — — — — — — — 28 — Stephen Page 47 45 3 2 — — — — — — 50 47 Lucinda Riches 46 43 — — — — — — — — 46 43 Alison Wood 47 46 3 1 — — — — — — 50 47 Alicja Lesniak9 — 11 — — — — — — — — — 11 380 359 6 9 — — — — — — 386 368 Total 1,549 1,451 42 75 10 12 447 430 148 727 2,196 2,695 1 The taxable benefits for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at the Company’s principal office and applicable grossed-up tax thereon. 2 Contributions made by the Company outside of salary sacrifice arrangements. 3 Salary includes £65,943 (2018: £61,482) supplement in lieu of pension contributions. 4 Salary includes £40,083 (2018: £38,537) supplement in lieu of pension contributions. 5 Salary includes £28,230 (2018: £26,399) supplement in lieu of pension contributions. 6 Appointed Non-Executive Director on 15 October 2018 and Chairman on 1 January 2019. 7 Retired on 31 December 2018. 8 Appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2019. 9 Retired on 31 March 2018. Salaries and fees shown above are before any reduction in respect of salary sacrificed pension contributions made by the Company. None of the Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2019 (2018: none). Fixed pay Base salary during 2019 To From 28 February 1 March Per annum base salary 2019 2019 Howard Kerr £400,000 £425,000 Craig Smith £300,000 £310,000 Scott Steedman £275,000 £285,000 Variable pay Annual bonus for 2019 Annual bonuses for the year ended 31 December 2019 were provided under the Annual Bonus Plan to Howard Kerr, Craig Smith and Scott Steedman, by the Committee, in accordance with the policy set out in the Annual Report 2018 Directors’ remuneration report. Actual annual bonus amounts earned are based on salary and dependent upon the achievement of targets for Group profit for the Annual Bonus Plan (GPB), revenue and personal objectives. GPB was defined as ‘underlying operating profit before discretionary bonus charges, LTIP charges and all foreign exchange adjustments’. Personal objectives are set and are measured by the Chairman for the Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for the other Executives; all are reviewed by the Committee. bsigroup.com 69 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee continued Variable pay continued Annual bonus for 2019 continued The table below sets out the percentage of base salary upon which potential 2019 annual bonuses were based: On-target Payable on On-target award achievement of Maximum On-target On-target personal based on 110% of GPB award Base salary basis of annual bonuses GPB revenue objectives base salary target up to possible Howard Kerr 30% 10% 10% 50% 50% 100% Craig Smith 24% 8% 8% 40% 40% 80% Scott Steedman 24% 8% 8% 40% 40% 80% The target levels set for 2019 were GPB of £72.3m and revenue of £549.2m at budgeted exchange rates. A threshold, representing 90% of both targets, has to be met before any bonus is earned. The total bonus percentage for on-target performance would be doubled if GPB reaches 110% of target. Bonus is earned on a straight-line basis from threshold to target and from 100% to 110% of GPB target if applicable. Personal objectives for Howard Kerr included building a leadership team and collaborative culture in the new organizational matrix, setting clear strategies for the four business streams, creating key account and sector development programmes, and managing Brexit transition issues. Craig Smith’s personal objectives included the completion of the finance transformation project, development of finance business partnering in support of global business streams and establishment of a clear data governance strategy and team. Scott Steedman’s personal objectives included development of stronger standards communities and stakeholder groups, establishment of the new services activity in the Knowledge stream and strengthening of the stream leadership team. Actual GPB at budget exchange rates achieved for 2019 was £72.7m (100.5% of GPB target). This is calculated as UOP at actual exchange rates of £58.3m, adjusted by adding back LTIP charges of £0.0m, bonus charges of £13.7m and amortization of acquired intangibles of £2.6m; and after deducting an exchange adjustment of £1.0m and net discretionary adjustments by the Committee of £0.9m relating to the impact of changes to accounting standards, investment spend, in-year acquisitions and one-off operating costs. Actual revenue achieved for 2019 was £548.1m. This is decreased by a £14.5m exchange adjustment and by £4.2m for in-year acquisitions to £529.4m at 2019 budget exchange rates. The annual bonuses earned in respect of 2019 were: Percentage of base salary Actual Payable on Actual Actual on-target achievement award award award based of 100% or based on based on on personal greater of Total Actual 2019 annual bonus payments (audited information) GPB on revenue objectives GPB actual award award Howard Kerr 30% 7.16% 10% 2.5% 49.66% £211,055 Craig Smith 24% 5.73% 8% 2.0% 39.73% £123,157 Scott Steedman 24% 5.73% 8% 2.0% 39.73% £113.225 Long Term Incentive Plan vesting in 2019 (audited information) In 2017, Howard Kerr, Craig Smith and Scott Steedman, as participants in the LTIP, were awarded participation units (PUs), in accordance with the policy set out in the Annual Report 2016 Directors’ remuneration report, with the proportion of those PUs vesting depending on the achievement of Group profit for the LTIP (GPL) and revenue targets for the third financial year after award, i.e. for the year ended 31 December 2019. GPL was defined as ‘underlying operating profit before LTIP charges and all foreign exchange adjustments’. Each vesting PU would provide £1.00. For the LTIP awards made in 2017, the target levels for 2019 were GPL of £68.3m (25% PU allocation) and revenue of £534.2m (75% PU Allocation) at 2017 budget exchange rates. Subsequent to the initial award, the targets were adjusted for the acquisition of the Neville Clark Group in 2017, amending target GPL to £69.4m and target revenue to £540.6m. Vesting would be on a predetermined scale beginning with 10% vesting at the minimum performance threshold of GPL of £65.9m and revenue of £513.5m, 50% vesting at the on-target performance and a maximum of 150% vesting at the maximum performance threshold of GPL of £73.4m and revenue of £561.6m. Vesting would be on a straight-line basis between performance levels. Actual GPL at 2019 budget exchange rates was £61.0m, calculated as UOP at actual exchange rates of £58.3m, adjusted by adding back amortization of acquired intangibles of £2.6m and discretionary adjustments by the Committee of £0.4m relating to one-off operating costs, and deducting an exchange adjustment of £0.3m. Actual revenue for 2019 was £548.1m, with a £14.5m exchange adjustment to £533.6m at 2019 budget exchange rates. On a discretionary basis, the Committee agreed to waive the minimum threshold requirement for GPL and as a result vesting was allowed for the revenue element of the award. Revenue achieved of £533.6m was above threshold and represents 40% pay out of the Revenue measure, which is 75% of the total award, contributing a total pay-out of 30%.. The number of PUs vesting and the payments to be made were: PUs awarded Payment Long Term Incentive Plan vesting 2019 2017 Vesting 2019 Howard Kerr 245,890 30% £73,202 Craig Smith 140,375 30% £41,790 Scott Steedman 110,250 30% £32,822 70 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Long Term Incentive Plan awarded in 2019 (audited information) In 2019 the Executive Directors were awarded PUs under the LTIP. A proportion of those would vest, depending upon the achievement of Group profit for the LTIP (GPL) and revenue targets for the third financial year after award, i.e. for the year ended 31 December 2021. GPL is defined as ‘underlying operating profit before LTIP charges, the amortization of acquired intangibles and all foreign exchange adjustments’. The PUs awarded under the LTIP in 2019 were: Vesting at Basis – minimum Vesting at Vesting at End of period salary PUs awarded performance on-target maximum (i.e. performance 2019 LTIP awards multiple 2019 at threshold performance performance period) Howard Kerr 67% 320,000 10% 50% 150% 31 December 2021 Craig Smith 50% 180,000 10% 50% 150% 31 December 2021 Scott Steedman 50% 165,000 10% 50% 150% 31 December 2021 Total LTIP awards held Vesting at minimum Vesting at Vesting at End of period Scott performance on-target maximum (i.e. performance LTIP awards held Howard Kerr Craig Smith Steedman at threshold performance performance period) PUs awarded 2019 320,000 180,000 165,000 10% 50% 150% 31 December 2021 PUs awarded 2018 252,925 144,125 125,000 10% 50% 150% 31 December 2020 Total PUs held 572,925 324,125 290,000 Pension contributions 2019 remuneration change from 2018 The Company paid the equivalent of 18% of Howard Kerr’s base % change % change in taxable % change salary and 15% of Craig Smith’s base salary as salary supplements in salary benefits in bonus in lieu of pension contributions. The Company paid a total of 15% of Chief Executive 6% 7% 1.5% Scott Steedman’s base salary into the BSI UK Pension Plan and as a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions. Salary supplements UK employees 2.7% 8% 1.5% were calculated as the equivalent cost to BSI, taking into account the National Insurance paid. UK employees (comprising full-time and part-time employees and fixed-term contract staff) have been chosen as the comparator group Loss of office payments (audited information) because the Chief Executive is employed in the UK and is mainly No payments for loss of office were made in 2019 (2018: £nil). affected by the UK’s economic and employment market conditions. Payments to past Directors (audited information) Pay ratio No payments to past Directors were made in 2019 (2018: £nil). 25th 75th percentile Median percentile Year Method pay ratio pay ratio pay ratio Remuneration of the Chief Executive Table of historic data (audited information) 2019 Option B 32:1 23:1 18:1 Chief Executive Annual LTIP single figure bonus vesting Median pay for BSI was £48,594. remuneration payout rates total against against Of the following methods, Option B was selected to review pay £’000 maximum maximum data to determine the total FTE remuneration of all BSI’s UK 2019 792 49.7% 30.0% employees; rank all those employees based on their total FTE remuneration from low to high; and identify the employees whose 2018 1,043 50.0% 100.0% remuneration places them at the 25th, 50th (median) and 75th 2017 1,156 92.2% 100.0% percentile points of this ranking. 2016 1,151 98.7% 100.0% Methodologies 2015 1,119 97.8% 100.0% Option A: Calculating the pay of UK employees in the same way as 2014 765 95.3% — for the CEO and determining the lower quartile, median and upper 2013 596 50.5% — quartile staff values from this sample. 2012 576 51.0% — Option B: Using gender pay gap data to determine the best equivalents 2011 792 59.1% 66.6% for the quartile and median staff pay levels. 2010 706 100.0% — Option C: Using other available pay data to determine the same three statistics. Howard Kerr was Chief Executive for each year shown. bsigroup.com 71 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee Element and how it supports long and short-term strategy Operation and recovery continued Salary and fees The base salaries of Executive Directors are determined Executive Directors’ Non-Executive Directorships (Fixed) by reference to an individual’s responsibility and In order to encourage professional development, performance and are reviewed annually. Executive Directors may, with the agreement By attracting, retaining Consideration is given to remuneration in of the Board, take on an external Non-Executive and motivating individuals comparable organizations when appropriate and Directorship. None of the Executive Directors of the quality required external benchmarking is carried out biennially. had a Non-Executive Directorship during the to further the interests Executive Directors may, by agreement with the period covered by this report. of the Company. Board, serve as Non-Executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees paid for their services. Statement of implementation Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services of Directors’ remuneration policy to the Company which is reviewed annually. During 2019, all Directors’ remuneration was awarded within the policy set out in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Benefits Benefits in kind for Executive Directors principally Annual Report and financial statements 2018. (Fixed) include, where appropriate, the provision of a company car and fuel, annual leave, as well as medical and life By providing a benefits insurance. The Non-Executive Directors do not Remuneration policy 2020 package appropriate to receive benefits in kind except reimbursement of the The Directors’ remuneration policy is set out the role of the individual costs of travel to meetings at the Company’s principal in the table opposite. It applies to remuneration and competitive with office and grossed-up tax thereon. awards made from 1 January 2020 and is set similar organizations. for a period of one year. There is no change from the policy operated in 2019. The Committee aims Pension benefits For Executive Directors the Company makes to maintain a Directors’ remuneration policy that (Fixed) contributions into defined contribution pension is stable and clearly defined but which evolves, arrangements or provides a cash alternative. over the longer term, to remain relevant to the By providing a cost-effective needs of the Group’s business and to reflect the retirement benefit as part wider employment market. The policy establishes of an overall remuneration demanding performance targets that align the package. Annual Bonus Plan with shorter-term objectives and the LTIP with the Group’s longer-term strategy Bonuses Awarded to Executive Directors subject to the and purpose. The Committee reviews the policy (Variable) fulfilment of specific short-term criteria, determined in advance of the remuneration policy year to with reference to BSI’s objectives. Clawback has By providing Directors ensure it is appropriate and effective in meeting been introduced for awards from 2016 onwards. with incentive to align their these requirements. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion performance to the delivery to adjust payments up or down in exceptional of the shorter-term goals Policy discretion circumstances where it feels this course of action of the business. The Committee retains discretionary power with is appropriate. regard to certain areas of Directors’ remuneration. For variable pay, the Committee retains the LTIPs These are awarded to Executive Directors subject discretion to adjust payments up or down in (Variable) to the fulfilment of longer-term criteria, determined exceptional circumstances. If employment ceases with reference to BSI’s objectives. The targets are during a vesting period LTIP awards will normally By providing Directors established annually and amended if necessary. lapse in full; however, the Committee reserves with incentive to align Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions. the discretion to allow some or all PUs to subsist their performance to the The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion in appropriate circumstances. In addition, the delivery of longer-term to adjust payments up or down in exceptional Committee reserves the right to apply discretion strategic aims and goals circumstances where it feels this course of action in exceptional circumstances, as it sees fit, of the business and to retain is appropriate. If employment ceases during the regarding payments on appointment and for senior executive talent. vesting period awards will normally lapse in full. termination payments. Notes: • Performance conditions have been selected by the Committee to provide incentive for performance and are kept under review. • Remuneration is intended to attract, retain and motivate individuals and is provided at a level appropriate to their role. 72 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Maximum value Performance metrics Changes from 2019 policy Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable. Maximum bonuses Award payments are dependent upon the achievement of targets for Howard Kerr, weighted as follows: as a percentage of base salary, targets are based Craig Smith and for Howard Kerr: i) 30% on Group profit for the Annual Bonus Plan (GPB), Scott Steedman are ii) 10% on revenue, and iii) 10% on personal objectives, plus up to 50% 100%, 80% and 80% if GPB reaches 110% of target; and for Craig Smith and Scott Steedman: of base salary, i) 24% on GPB, ii) 8% on revenue, and iii) 8% on personal objectives, plus respectively. up to 40% if GPB reaches 110% of target. A maximum of 150% of PUs are awarded to Executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee. participation units (PUs) Award payments are dependent upon the achievement of targets weighted may vest depending on as follows: as a percentage of base salary, targets are based: i) 25% on target achievement. Group profit for the LTIP and ii) 75% on revenue; a proportion of these vest depending on the achievement of Group profit for the LTIP and revenue growth targets for the third financial year after award. Awards made are on a discretionary basis. bsigroup.com 73 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued Remuneration policy 2020 continued Statement of principles for new Executive Director recruitment The Committee oversees the setting, within the Directors’ remuneration policy, of the total remuneration package of new Executive Directors. This comprises the fixed pay elements of base salary, benefits and pension plan contributions and the variable pay elements of annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan awards, all of which are internally and externally benchmarked. The maximum level of variable pay is set within the Directors’ remuneration policy. BSI does not normally either offer ‘sign-on’ awards or compensate recruits for forfeited amounts; however, the Committee reserves the right to apply discretion in this area as it sees fit. Policy on notice periods No Director has contractual rights for compensation on early termination beyond payment of the contractual notice period. Executive Directors have rolling contracts setting out notice periods as shown in the following table: Appointment Notice period commenced provided for Howard Kerr 1 November 2008 12 months by either party Craig Smith 15 August 2011 6 months by either party Scott Steedman 1 October 2012 6 months by either party The Chairman is re-appointed by the Board each year upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee. Except where indicated, the appointment of Non-Executive Directors is for periods of three years, but is subject to re-appointment at AGMs in accordance with the Bye-laws. The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts. Details of their letters of appointment are as follows: Date of appointment Role John Hirst 15 October 2018 Non-Executive Director 1 January 2019 Chairman Douglas Hurt 1 November 2015 Non-Executive Director 1 November 2018 Re-appointed Ian Lobley 1 May 2019 Non-Executive Director Stephen Page 1 September 2015 Non-Executive Director 1 September 2018 Re-appointed Lucinda Riches 19 May 2011 Board Advisor 17 May 2012 Non-Executive Director 22 May 2014 Re-appointed 18 May 2017 Re-appointed Alison Wood 1 September 2014 Non-Executive Director 1 September 2017 Re-appointed Approach of the Company in setting Non-Executive Director fees BSI is justifiably proud of the calibre of the Non-Executive Directors on its Board. In order to retain and, when the need arises, recruit Non-Executive Directors of high quality, the Company must ensure their remuneration recognizes the knowledge and experience they bring to the Board and their time commitment as well as being comparable with the fees paid in similar organizations. Their fees are determined by the Board (with the Non-Executive Directors not present) on the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive. The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee. Policy on termination payments The Group may, at its absolute discretion, terminate the employment of Executive Directors by paying a sum equal to the salary and benefits to which they would have been entitled during their notice period. Alternatively, an individual may be asked to work some or all of the required contractual notice period. Ancillary payments such as those to cover out-placement consultancy may also be made. Nothing would be payable in the event of termination for gross misconduct. Redundancy payments are made based on the local employment legislation and prevailing terms in force within the Group at that point in time. Compensation for any outstanding bonus payments is determined by reference to the terms of the individual’s current bonus letter. Non-Executive Directors have no right to any termination payments other than in the case of one month’s fee paid in lieu of notice. The Board is responsible for any such Non-Executive Director termination arrangements. The Committee, overseen by its Chairman, is responsible for the setting of any termination payments for the Chairman and Executive Directors and it reserves the right to apply discretion as it sees fit in relation to the above. 74 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Illustration of the application of the Directors’ remuneration policy for 2020 The charts below provide an illustration of what could be received by each Executive Director for 2020, which is the year of application of the stated remuneration policy: Chief Executive Group Finance Director Director of Standards £’000 £’000 £’000 1,500 1,423 1,500 1,500 1,250 30% 1,250 1,250 1,000 1,000 1,000 883 840 16% 766 750 36% 750 28% 750 561 28% 29% 510 500 486 500 14% 500 29% 14% 30% 359 22% 325 22% 250 100% 55% 34% 250 250 100% 64% 43% 100% 64% 42% 0 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Key Fixed pay (salary, benefits and pension benefits) Annual variable pay (bonus) Long-term variable pay (LTIP) Notes: • Minimum means fixed pay only (i.e. base salary, benefits and pension benefits), i.e. below the payment threshold for variable pay awards. • On target means fixed pay, an award equivalent to 50%, 40% and 40% of base salary to Howard Kerr, Craig Smith and Scott Steedman, respectively, under the Annual Bonus Plan and vesting of 50% of the PUs awarded to each Director under the LTIP. • Maximum means fixed pay, an award equivalent to 100%, 80% and 80% of base salary to Howard Kerr, Craig Smith and Scott Steedman, respectively, under the Annual Bonus Plan and vesting of 150% of the PUs awarded to each Director under the LTIP. • For the purpose of this illustration: fixed pay is based on base salary at 31 December 2019 and actual 2019 benefit and pension benefit amounts; annual bonus awards for potential payment with respect to the 2020 financial year are based on base salary at 31 December 2019; and LTIPs are based on the 2018 awards potentially vesting for the performance period ending 31 December 2020. Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Salaries and benefits are regularly reviewed and compared to the general market (including FTSE 350 companies), economic indicators and competitor businesses. The survey data is compiled from both generic third-party surveys and specific, targeted research. In considering the salary levels for the Executive Directors, the Committee also considers the employment market conditions and the pay levels across the UK Group. Performance related annual increases for Executive Directors are consistent with those offered at all levels across the UK Group. The Committee receives regular updates from the interim Group HR Director regarding remuneration elsewhere in the Group and these are considered during the review of the Directors’ remuneration policy. A workforce engagement mechanism is being developed and the Committee will take into account feedback from that. Relative importance of spend on pay 2019 2018 Employee benefit cost +14% £281.5m £247.5m Revenue +7% £548.1m £511.9m UOP -6% £58.3m £61.8m Headcount 0.89% 4,827 4,784 Audited information The Directors’ remuneration report is unaudited with the exception of the sections marked to show that they contain audited information. By Order of the Board Alison Wood Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 75 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ report The Directors submit their report and audited The Company’s Bye-law 8 requires Directors to submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following their financial statements for The British Standards appointment by the Board as a new Director. In addition, under the Institution and its subsidiaries for the year ended Company’s Bye-law 9, one-third (rounded down) of the Directors are 31 December 2019. required to retire by rotation and stand for re-election and therefore Howard Kerr, Stephen Page and Alison Wood will be standing for It is the Directors’ responsibility to prepare the Annual Report and re-election at the 2020 Annual General Meeting. Accounts and they consider that The British Standards Institution Annual Report and financial statements 2019, taken as a whole, is fair, Annual General Meeting balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary The 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held at 4pm on to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. Tuesday 19 May 2020 at 389 Chiswick High Road, London W4 4AL. The business to be considered at the meeting is set out in a separate Directors’ report disclosures Notice of Meeting dispatched to the members. The Chairman’s statement and the Strategic report, including the Chief Executive’s review, Business review and Financial review, form Independent auditors part of this report and include: The Group’s auditors for the year ended 31 December 2019 were PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. A resolution to re-appoint • disclosure of the key performance indicators used to manage PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming the business; Annual General Meeting. • likely future developments; and Directors’ and officers’ liability • gender and human rights disclosures. The Group has maintained throughout the year, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover in respect of the acts or omissions Research and development of its Directors and continues to do so. Details of the policy are The Group has capitalized £0.8m of development costs relating to provided to new Directors on appointment. In common with other new training courses and has not expensed any basic research or companies, the Group has made qualifying third-party indemnity other development costs. provisions for the benefit of its Directors against liabilities incurred in the execution of their duties. Corporate governance The Corporate governance report is set out on pages 54 to 58. Section 172 statement During 2019, BSI complied with the Financial Reporting Council The Board is required to act in accordance with a general set of (FRC) UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, where relevant to duties detailed in Section 172 of the UK Companies Act 2006. its constitution and operation as a Royal Charter Company In the decisions taken during the year ended 31 December 2019, without shareholders. the Directors have acted in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company and The Board its continuing reputation for high standards of business conduct, The members of the Board are as follows and, except where noted for the benefit of its members as a whole. below, all held office throughout the year. Our 2019–2024 strategic plan was designed to have a long-term John Hirst (appointed Chairman 1 January 2019) beneficial impact on the Company and to contribute to its success Howard Kerr in reflecting its public interest aims, detailed in the Sustainability Craig Smith review on pages 41 to 47. Our employees are fundamental to the Scott Steedman delivery of our plan and we aim to be a responsible employer. The Douglas Hurt health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce is one of our primary Ian Lobley (appointed 1 May 2019) considerations in the way we do business. In 2019 we put in place Stephen Page additional formal processes to engage with our employees. Lucinda Riches The intention of the Board is to ensure that management operates Alison Wood the business to the high standards of business conduct and good The Company Secretary is Grainne Brankin. governance expected and, in doing so, contributes to the delivery of our plan. The intention is to nurture our reputation, through the More information about the Directors can be found on pages 50 and 51. construction and delivery of our plan, our long-term view and The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to responsible behaviour. As the Board of Directors, our intention is statute, relevant regulation and the restrictions set out in the Royal to behave responsibly towards our stakeholders and treat them Charter and Bye-laws. The Bye-laws give the Directors the power to fairly and equally, so they benefit from the successful delivery appoint additional or replacement Directors within the limits set out. of our plan. 76 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Stakeholder engagement Directors’ interests In 2019 the Board adopted a formal process to monitor engagement Apart from service contracts or Non-Executive Directors’ letters by the Board and the Group with its stakeholders and regularly review of appointment there was no contract with the Group, during or at them, including identification and prioritization of key stakeholders. the end of the financial year, in which a Director is or was materially More information about stakeholder engagement can be found on interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Group’s pages 56 and 57. business during the period under review. No Director has any beneficial interest in the Company. It is noted that John Hirst is a Employee engagement Non-Executive Director of Marsh Limited, which was engaged as The Group communicates and consults with its employees on a wide the Group’s insurance brokers with effect from 9 December 2019. range of subjects, including those that directly affect them, using The decision to engage Marsh Limited was taken on an arm’s email, presentations, intranet, in-house publications and meetings. length basis and John did not take part in that decision. Management works hard to maintain good relationships with its employees around the world through continual communications and Post-balance sheet events the Group conducts a regular employee engagement survey with In the light of recent developments, we have assessed the potential the results used to identify opportunities to improve engagement. implications of the coronavirus pandemic for the Group and its Financial Statements. As detailed in the Directors’ Report, additional To further the commitment of the Board and Group Executive work has been performed to consider the impact of coronavirus on to engage with employees in 2019, the Group established the the ongoing business and, while there will be an economic impact, BSI Colleague Forum. The Forum is comprised of self-nominated the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be representatives and its purpose is to ensure the voice of every able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due colleague can be heard by the Board and Group Executive of BSI. for at least the next twelve months. Representatives have the opportunity to discuss their own and their colleagues’ views and ideas with members of the Group Executive At this time, we consider the impact of coronavirus to the Group to and Regional Commercial Directors. These views will then be be short-term. Quarter 1 2020 revenue and profit are robust but shared directly with the Board and help shape its views. will be adversely affected for the full year. While some business may be lost, much of it will merely be deferred, as it is driven by Further details of the Group’s engagement with its employees are clients’ regulatory or supply chain requirements. Parts of our set out in the ‘Our people’ section of the Sustainability review on business are able to operate remotely and our Regulatory Services pages 46 and 47. business stream, in particular, retains a strong order book. Some of our clients may also face credit-related issues but, as stated in the Equality and diversity Group’s assessment of credit risk (Note 3b), the Group’s customer The Group takes equality and diversity seriously, understanding that base is large and unrelated and concentration of credit risk with by using the talent and skills available in all groups and communities respect to trade receivables is limited. in the countries in which it operates, the organization is able to build the strong team it requires to deliver strategy. The Group uses As a result of the economic impacts of coronavirus, there have job-related objective criteria in the selection of candidates and been movements in the valuation of the assets held by the UK defined when considering development opportunities. benefit pension scheme, and the discount rates used to value its liabilities. While these impacts have been considerable during The Group is committed to providing a work environment free recent weeks, they remain short-term volatility in long-term assets from harassment and discrimination. We endeavour to treat each and liabilities. We have an agreed schedule of contributions that is individual fairly in relation to job applications, training, promotion reviewed every three years, and actuarial swings in the deficit are and career development. taken into consideration at the time of each triennial valuation. Sustainability The impact of the coronavirus pandemic has taken place since A review of the Group’s sustainability activities during the year December 2019 and it is therefore a non-adjusting event. No changes is set out in the Sustainability review on pages 41 to 47. This review resulting from the impact of coronavirus have been made to the also contains disclosures of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. valuation of any assets or liabilities in our 2019 Financial Statements. We have considered the impact of the virus on the judgements made Donations at 31 December on the carrying value of tangible and intangible The Company made no political donations during the year (2018: £nil). fixed assets. Given our view that the impact of the virus is likely to be short term, our assessment is that this will not materially affect Principal risks and uncertainties the carrying value of these assets. The full impact will be reviewed The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are detailed during 2020 and any impairments, provisions or other adjustments on pages 27 to 29. will be taken, as required, in the 2020 Financial Statements. Financial instruments Details of the use and materiality of financial instruments are provided in Notes 21 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements. bsigroup.com 77 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors’ report continued Going concern Viability statement In recent years, the Group has delivered increasing revenue and The Directors have considered the ongoing viability of the Group. stable profits and has a broad portfolio of clients. It ended 2019 Each year, the Directors agree a strategic plan for the business. with a significant cash reserve and no borrowings. The Board The 2020 to 2024 plan, prepared in late 2019, was based on the maintains an effective risk management system and has taken expected economic environment across all our markets. The plan reasonable steps to manage the risks faced by the business. reflected the Group’s strategic objectives and initiatives, consistent In view of the current restrictions being placed on our business with the risk appetite of the Group, as agreed by the Board. BSI has activities due to the coronavirus pandemic, we have updated a long history of underlying revenue growth and operating profit our cash forecasts. Our forecasts assume longer cash collection stability and this plan showed a continuation of these trends. periods as customers look to conserve cash, an average 24% decline in revenues for the Group as a whole in the second quarter The plan has been tested and its validity confirmed in scenarios over the existing budget and, given current uncertainty over the that include severe but plausible changes to the plan assumptions. duration of the crisis, a conservative recovery in performance until These scenarios related to lower demand for BSI’s products and March 2021. The revenue decline is based on a stream by stream services and the availability of sufficient cash to satisfy the Group’s assessment, with more significant declines expected in Consulting obligations and undertake the necessary investments to achieve Services revenues but with greater resilience shown in Regulatory the key performance indicators. Services revenues given the nature of these services and the current Having recently revisited and updated our forecasts for the next strong forward order book. Our forecasts also reflect the extent of twelve months we have reviewed the remainder of the strategic work that may still be performed without access to customer sites, plan in this context. Each year of the strategic plan beyond 2020 is with reference to our recent experience in China and Italy where cash-generative in isolation and actions may be taken, if required, the spread of the virus is more advanced. They also assume some for it to remain so even if 2020 trading is affected by coronavirus increase in irrecoverable trade receivables during the crisis and such that 2021 trading performance starts from a lower base. predict that we should not need to resort to external funding in order to continue to operate and satisfy our financial obligations. As a result of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Sensitivity analysis has been applied to this forecast and, if revenues and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least that period of were to decline by a further 33% from first quarter levels for the time. The Group has a programme of developing its Organizational six-month period to September 2020, the Group has defined Resilience in accordance with the principles set out in BS 65000. adequate additional cost mitigation and cash expenditure deferral This will help ensure that we are better able to anticipate, prepare actions that could be taken before the Group would need to resort for, respond to and adapt to incremental change and disruption, to external funding. Such potential actions include a recruitment enabling the Group to survive and prosper into the future. freeze, further discretionary cost reductions such as travel and subsistence, professional fees, contractor fees, training and promotion By Order of the Board and publicity, reducing the use of external resource and deferring capital expenditure and elements of employee remuneration. As a result, the Directors consider that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to continue in operational Grainne Brankin existence for at least the twelve months following the approval of Company Secretary this Annual Report and, accordingly, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Company’s and the Group’s financial statements. 27 March 2020 Notwithstanding the above, given the level of uncertainty currently facing the global economy, should conditions further decline from those which we currently foresee to be plausible, we have also engaged in conversations with tax authorities around the world to consider the possibility of delaying payments, and with the trustees of the UK defined benefit pension scheme regarding a temporary suspension of additional funding. While we currently have no borrowings, we have also engaged in conversations with our banks to understand the possibility of access to funding lines, should they prove necessary. 78 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 80 Independent auditors’ report 87 Consolidated income statement 88 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 89 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Consolidated statement of cash flows 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements 134 Independent auditors’ report 139 Parent company balance sheet 140 Parent company statement of changes in equity 141 Notes to the parent company financial statements bsigroup.com 79 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Opinion In our opinion, The British Standards Institution’s consolidated financial statements (the “financial statements”): • give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2019 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; • have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; and • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019; the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Our audit approach Overview • Overall Group materiality: £2.6m (2018: £2.7m), based on 5% of profit before tax. • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the BSI Standards Limited, BSI Assurance UK Limited and BSI Group America, Inc. operations due to their financial significance Materiality to the Group, together with the global head office Group function. • We performed specified audit procedures at six further reporting locations with the Group engagement team directly performing these audit procedures over BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (UK) Audit scope Ltd in the UK, BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (Ireland) Ltd in Ireland, BSI Services and Solutions East Inc. and BSI Services and Solutions (NYC) Inc., AppSec Consulting Inc in the USA. and BSI Group Deutschland GmbH (work performed remotely). Local teams were instructed to perform work over the Dubai branch of BSI Management Systems Ltd and BSI Management Systems Certification (Beijing) Co. Ltd and BSI Certification and Technical Training (Beijing) Limited in China. Key audit • The components over which we performed our audit work, considered together with the corporate matters function accounted for 65.8% of the Group’s external revenues and 79.5% of the Group’s profit before tax. • Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities • Acquisition accounting of AppSec Consulting, Inc. • Consideration of goodwill and acquired intangible assets for impairment • Implementation of IFRS 16 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 80 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities To address this risk, we have designed and performed procedures over the The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net report issued to the Directors by the actuary. We have engaged our retirement benefit obligation liabilities of £59.6m, which actuarial experts to assist in the assessment of the methodology and are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet assumptions underpinning the pension liabilities. The following procedures of the Group. have been performed: The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant • Review of the methodology applied by the actuary assessing its levels of judgement and technical expertise in applying appropriateness and consistency with prior periods. appropriate assumptions. The key assumptions include • Assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions supporting the discount rates, RPI and CPI inflation rates and mortality rates. discount rates, mortality and inflation rates by comparing them to our The Directors employ actuarial experts to assist them in independently developed benchmarks. identifying appropriate assumptions and valuing the • Rollforward of the liabilities also performed to ensure the liabilities in the scheme. reasonableness of the impact of changes in the defined assumptions Given the magnitude of the pension liabilities, changes in during the period. assumptions or valuations could potentially result in • Testing over the census data of members. material changes to the net position recognised. The assumptions, methodologies and valuations subject to our procedures were supported by the work performed. Acquisition accounting of AppSec Consulting, Inc. To address this risk, we have performed procedures over the valuation The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of AppSec report issued to the Directors by their independent valuation experts. Consulting, Inc. (“AppSec”) on 2 April 2019 for a total We have engaged our own valuation experts to assist in assessing and consideration of USD10.6m (£8.1m). challenging the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the intangible assets. The accounting for an acquisition is inherently judgemental due to the reliance on future projections and the assumptions We have assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions around the made in identifying and valuing the intangible assets overall Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) and associated discount acquired, which are disclosed on page 114 and 115 within rates applied to the working capital and intangible assets against our Note 15 to the financial statements. independently developed benchmarks. The Directors employed independent valuation experts to We have assessed the approach to the Contributary Asset Charges (CACs) assist them in identifying the intangible assets acquired on identified in calculating the customer relationships intangible asset. acquisition of AppSec. We have tested the mathematical accuracy of the models used and There is a high level of estimation and judgement employed underlying calculations. in determining the intangible assets and changes in the We have also validated the input data to the underlying agreements assumptions could have a material impact on the valuation and contracts. of the intangible assets. We challenged management on the assumptions made around future projections, and on the completeness of identification of the intangible assets. From the work performed we have concluded that the valuation of the acquired intangible assets has been determined using an appropriate methodology and the assumptions made appear to be reasonable. bsigroup.com 81 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report continued to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets To address this risk, we have designed and performed a number of audit The Group had £71.9m of goodwill as at 31 December 2019 procedures over the impairment assessments performed by management. (31 December 2018: £67.5m) and £16.3m of acquired We tested the reasonableness of management’s key assumptions and the intangibles as at 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: sensitivity through the following procedures: £16.0m), for which an annual impairment review is required. • Performed an assessment of the achievability of the revenue and margin The carrying values of these assets are contingent upon forecasts, including an evaluation of the assumptions in management’s future cash flows which may be impacted by developments forecasts including understanding the following: in the market and the business performing below expectations. –– the opportunities for growth in the relevant markets; We consider this to be a key audit matter given the magnitude of the relevant balances and the significant –– comparison of the previous track record compared to the forecast results; judgement and estimation involved in the impairment –– comparison to results achieved for the relevant revenue streams in assessments of these assets. The key assumptions in comparable markets; and management’s cash flow projections are: short to medium –– understanding and verification of the key changes in strategies/ term revenue growth and profitability, long term growth operating models which are expected to drive growth. rate and the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions could potentially lead to an impairment in the carrying • We have utilised our valuations experts to evaluate the discount rates value of these assets. and long-term growth forecasts. In performing these assessments, the audit team focused on applying an appropriate level of professional scepticism, when challenging the assumptions presented by management through obtaining corroborating information both independently and through our audit work and the impact of any contradictory evidence. We focused on those cash generating units (CGUs) where we believed there was the most significant risk of impairment and in a number of cases we received updated assessments from management as a result of initial challenges raised. Based on the work performed, we found that the underlying financial information and assumptions used were not unreasonable. We have also assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including sensitivity analysis and the reasonably possible downsides. Following our work, management has extended the sensitivity disclosures to provide further information on the sensitivity of key assumptions within its assessment for the four CGUs that are at risk of impairment as a result of reasonably possible changes in assumptions. Implementation of IFRS 16 To address this risk, we have designed and performed audit procedures Management has implemented IFRS 16, “Leases” which over the calculations prepared by management. applies for the first time for the year ended 31 December We have tested the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations. 2019. The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities recognized on transition as at 1 January 2019 was £34.4m and £47.4m We have challenged management on the key assumptions including the respectively having a net balance sheet impact of £13m useful lives of the assets and the incremental borrowing rates applied including all related adjustments; this is disclosed on within the calculations. page 116 Note 16, and page 127 and Note 28 to the financial We have performed testing on the underlying lease data used in the statements. These balances are individually significant in calculation by agreeing to supporting contracts and agreements and also the context of the assets and liabilities of the Group. considered the treatment of lease incentives. There is a high level of judgement and estimation in In addition, we have understood the process employed by management to determining the valuation of the assets and liabilities and ensure the completeness of the lease population identified. new specific disclosure requirements of the new standard. The policies and methodology applied by the client, including the practical expedients taken advantage of have been assessed to ensure they have been appropriately applied. We have also reviewed the disclosures presented within the financial statements to ensure they are in compliance with the standard. Finally, we have also considered the associated tax implications and provided challenge to management to ensure these were appropriately reflected within the accounts. From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions, methodology and completeness to be appropriate and supported by the evidence obtained. 82 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Assessment of the implications of COVID-19 and assessment In assessing the Directors’ conclusion that the Group is a Going Concern; we of the Going Concern assumption in light of the potential performed the following procedures: associated cash flow challenges • agreed the underlying cash flow projections to management approved In light of recent developments management has forecasts, assessed how these forecasts are compiled, and assessed the performed additional work to consider the impact of accuracy of management’s historical forecasts; COVID-19 and in particular with respect to their going concern and viability assessments for the Group. • evaluated management assumptions regarding the revenue and associated EBITDA reductions associated with COVID-19, together with In performing this assessment management has modelled a assumptions regarding cash collections from customers; downside scenario which includes an average monthly revenue reduction of 24% through Q2 (13% reduction • evaluated the assumptions in respect of the costs that could be avoided through the full year) compared to budget. Management in a period of significant revenue reduction; also assumes a significant increase in their cash collection • assessed the impact of the mitigating factors available to management period and an increased default rate of 2%. in including the ability to restrict capital expenditure and the associated The Group has set up a sub-committee of the Board who cash impact; are responsible for reviewing its response to COVID-19 with • checked the mathematical accuracy of the spreadsheet used to model respect to the 2019 annual report and accounts. future financial performance; Management has identified a number of mitigations, which include a recruitment freeze, further discretionary cost • considered the adequacy of the disclosures included by management reductions such as travel and subsistence, professional within the annual report, and considered the consistency with other fees, contractor fees, training and promotion and publicity, statements and disclosures; and reducing the use of external resource and deferring capital • considered the impact of our own, more pessimistic scenarios, regarding expenditure and elements of employee remuneration. In both profitability and cash collections. We have further sensitised considering all aspects of their position, management has management’s models, considering severe however plausible changes also engaged in conversations with tax authorities around to their base assumptions. In our worst-case scenario, we have assumed the world to consider the possibility of delaying payments an average monthly revenue reduction of 43% through Q2 (26% reduction to understand the options available to the Group. In through the full year) compared to budget. We have also further elongated addition to this management has engaged with the trustees the cash collection assumptions. In addition to this we have assumed a of the UK Defined Benefit Pension Scheme to discuss further increase to the rate of default of 15%. Given the level of sensitivity temporarily stopping the additional pension funding applied, we have also taken into account some of the cost mitigations through 2020. The Group currently does not have access to available to the Group, such as deferral of elements of employee debt facilities; however, management has also engaged in remuneration to 2021, reduction in tax payments as a result of lower conversations with its banks to understand the possibility profits and reduction of capex spend. of access to funding should it be required. Based on the further sensitivities performed and the cost mitigations Based on the review performed, as discussed with their available to the Group we have concurred with the directors’ assessment sub-committee, management considers the Group to be that there are no material uncertainties related to events or conditions that able to prepare their accounts on a going concern basis, may cast significant doubt about the ability of the company to continue as a albeit with additional disclosures around the risks faced by going concern. the business due to the uncertainty over the extent and duration of the impact of COVID-19. These disclosures have We consider the disclosures included within the accounts related to this to been included on pages 77 and 78 of the annual report. be adequate. In forming our opinion on the financial statements, we have considered the directors’ conclusion that the Group is a Going Concern. How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates. The British Standards Institution Group is organized on both a business stream and geographic basis. In line with prior years, we have scoped our audit on a geographic basis. The significant components for the purposes of our audit were BSI Assurance UK Ltd, BSI Standards Ltd and BSI Group America, Inc. and a full scope audit was performed for these components. We also brought smaller components into scope for specified procedures to gain comfort over specific accounts; these were BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (UK) Ltd in the UK, BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (Ireland) Ltd in Ireland, BSI Services and Solutions East Inc. BSI Services and Solutions (NYC) Inc., and AppSec Consulting Inc in the USA, the Dubai branch of BSI Management Systems Ltd, BSI Management Systems Certification (Beijing) Co. Ltd and BSI Certification and Technical Training (Beijing) Limited in China and BSI Group Deutschland GmbH (where work was performed remotely by the group team). bsigroup.com 83 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report continued to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality £2.6m (2018: £2.7m). How we determined it 5% of profit before tax. Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for profit-oriented entities, in the benchmark applied absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate. We believe that the profit before tax provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality. Forecast profit before tax was used as a benchmark for materiality calculated at the planning stage and communicated to the Audit Committee in November 2019. The benchmark applied to determine materiality has remained constant with prior year being 5% of profit before tax. We have concluded, together with the Audit Committee, that it is appropriate to apply a materiality benchmark consistent with that which would be applicable for a listed group. For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between £120,000 and £1,980,000. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £260,000 (2018: £270,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Going concern In accordance with ISAs (UK) we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. draw attention to in respect of the Directors’ statement in the However, because not all future events or conditions can be financial statements about whether the Directors considered it predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in ability to continue as a going concern. preparing the financial statements and the Directors’ identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. 84 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities. With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included. Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 (CA06) and ISAs (UK) require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below (required by ISAs (UK) unless otherwise stated). Strategic Report and Directors’ Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. (CA06) In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report. (CA06) The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As a result of the Directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to regarding: • The Directors’ confirmation on page 27 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. • The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. • The Directors’ explanation on page 78 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. We have nothing to report in respect of this responsibility. Other Code Provisions As a result of the Directors’ reporting on how they have applied the Code, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • The statement given by the Directors, on page 59, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the Board of Directors to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group obtained in the course of performing our audit. • The section of the Annual Report on page 61 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. We have nothing to report in respect of this responsibility. bsigroup.com 85 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report continued to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the group financial statements continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report. Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Board of Directors of the Group as a body to enable the Board to discharge its stewardship and fiduciary responsibilities under the terms of the Royal Charter and Bye-laws and where applicable and possible the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of The British Standards Institution for the year ended 31 December 2019 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. Owen Mackney (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Watford 27 March 2020 86 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2019 2019 2018* Note £m £m Revenue 5, 6 548.1 511.9 Cost of sales (294.4) (271.7) Gross profit 253.7 240.2 Selling and distribution expenses (71.5) (64.9)** Administrative expenses (123.9) (113.5)** Operating profit before exceptional costs 5 58.3 61.8 Exceptional operating costs 7 (3.6) (5.3) Operating profit 7 54.7 56.5 Finance income 11 0.4 0.5 Finance costs 11 (3.9) (1.9) Profit before income tax 51.2 55.1 Income tax expense 12 (14.6) (16.1) Profit for the year 36.6 39.0 * The Group has adopted IFRS 16, “Leases” retrospectively from 1 January 2019, but not restated comparatives for the 2018 reporting period, as permitted under the transition provisions in the standard. See Note 28. ** £3.3m has been reclassified from ‘Administrative expenses’ to ‘Selling and distribution expenses’ to correctly reflect the commercial structure implemented in 2018. All amounts in the consolidated income statement relate to continuing operations. The accompanying notes on pages 92 to 133 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. bsigroup.com 87 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2019 2019 2018 * Note £m £m Profit for the year 36.6 39.0 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Re-measurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of taxes 23b 2.7 7.4 2.7 7.4 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Net investment and cash flow hedges — 0.1 Currency translation differences (4.5) 1.9 (4.5) 2.0 Other comprehensive (loss)/profit for the year, net of taxes (1.8) 9.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 34.8 48.4 * The Group has adopted IFRS 16, “Leases” retrospectively from 1 January 2019, but not restated comparatives for the 2018 reporting period, as permitted under the transition provisions in the standard. See Note 28. The accompanying notes on pages 92 to 133 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 88 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2019 Retained Translation earnings reserve Total Note £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 124.4 5.5 129.9 Profit for the year 39.0 — 39.0 Re-measurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of taxes 23b 7.4 — 7.4 Net investment and cash flow hedges — 0.1 0.1 Currency translation differences — 1.9 1.9 At 31 December 2018* 170.8 7.5 178.3 At 1 January 2019* 170.8 7.5 178.3 Impact of change in accounting policy 28 (5.7) — (5.7) Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019* 165.1 7.5 172.6 Profit for the year 36.6 — 36.6 Re-measurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of taxes 23b 2.7 — 2.7 Currency translation differences — (4.5) (4.5) At 31 December 2019 204.4 3.0 207.4 * The Group has adopted IFRS 16, “Leases” retrospectively from 1 January 2019, but not restated comparatives for the 2018 reporting period, as permitted under the transition provisions in the standard. See Note 28. The accompanying notes on pages 92 to 133 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. Retained earnings Retained earnings are used to record the changes in retained profit/(accumulated loss), actuarial gains/(losses) relating to retirement benefit obligations and the corresponding deferred tax. Translation reserve The translation reserve is used to record the foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and net investment and cash flow hedges. bsigroup.com 89 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 2019 2018 * Note £m £m Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 26.6 26.3 Goodwill 14 71.9 67.5 Intangible assets 14 35.5 28.0 Right-of-use assets 16 37.8 — Deferred tax assets 17 16.4 18.7** Trade and other receivables 18 8.3 7.1 Contract costs 19 15.6 14.9 Total non-current assets 212.1 162.5 Current assets Inventories 20 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 18 138.6 126.2 Derivative financial instruments 21 — 0.1 Current tax assets 5.5 5.9 Fixed-term deposits 22 15.0 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents 22 70.1 71.8 Total current assets 229.3 219.1 Total assets 441.4 381.6 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 17 (6.3) (5.3)** Retirement benefit obligations 23 (59.6) (73.6) Provisions for liabilities and charges 24 (2.4) (2.3) Trade and other payables 25 (10.3) (9.4) Lease liabilities 16 (39.1) — Total non-current liabilities (117.7) (90.6) Current liabilities Trade and other payables 25 (100.3) (107.3) Lease liabilities 16 (11.3) — Current tax payables (4.4) (4.8) Provisions for liabilities and charges 24 (0.3) (0.6) Total current liabilities (116.3) (112.7) Total liabilities (234.0) (203.3) Net assets 207.4 178.3 Reserves Retained earnings 204.4 170.8 Translation reserve 3.0 7.5 Total reserves 207.4 178.3 * The Group has adopted IFRS 16, “Leases” retrospectively from 1 January 2019, but not restated comparatives for the 2018 reporting period, as permitted under the transition provisions in the standard. See Note 28. ** The Group has restated the 2018 deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities to offset balances within the same tax jurisdiction. Refer to Note 17. The accompanying notes on pages 92 to 133 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements on pages 87 to 91 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by: Craig Smith FCCA Group Finance Director 27 March 2020 90 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2019 2019 2018 * Note £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before income tax 51.2 55.1 Adjustments for: – Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7 5.7 5.2 – Loss on disposal of tangible assets 7 0.5 0.1 – Amortization of intangible assets 7 6.7 7.3 – Impairment of intangible assets 7 0.2 0.4 – Depreciation of right-of-use assets 7 8.6 — – Loss on disposal of intangible assets 7 — 0.1 – Loss allowance on trade receivables 7 0.3 1.0 – Bad debts written off to profit or loss directly 7 0.7 — – Finance income 11 (0.4) (0.5) – Finance costs 11 3.9 1.9 – Net capitalization of contract costs 19 (1.1) (2.0) – Retirement benefit charges 23b 1.1 3.2 Changes in working capital (excluding the exchange differences on consolidation): – Decrease in inventories — 0.1 – Increase in trade and other receivables (17.1) (10.6) – Decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instrument asset 0.1 (0.1) – Increase in trade and other payables 1.8 1.9 – (Decrease)/increase in provisions and other liabilities (0.3) 0.7 Retirement benefit payments 23b (13.7) (13.7) Cash generated from operations 48.2 50.1 Interest received 0.4 0.5 Interest elements of lease payments 16 (2.2) — Income tax paid (11.8) (20.6) Net cash generated from operating activities 34.6 30.0 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13 (6.6) (5.3) Purchases of intangible assets 14 (11.4) (5.6) Purchase of fixed-term deposits 22a — (5.0) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 15 (7.6) (0.6) Net cash used in investing activities (25.6) (16.5) Cash flow from financing activity Principal elements of lease payments 16 (8.7) — Net cash used in financing activity (8.7) — Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.3 13.5 Opening cash and cash equivalents 71.8 57.8 Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents (2.0) 0.5 Closing cash and cash equivalents 22b 70.1 71.8 * The Group has adopted IFRS 16, “Leases” retrospectively from 1 January 2019, but not restated comparatives for the 2018 reporting period, as permitted under the transition provisions in the standard. See Note 28. The accompanying notes on pages 92 to 133 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. bsigroup.com 91 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 1. Corporate information The British Standards Institution is the ultimate parent company of the BSI Group and is a company incorporated by Royal Charter in the United Kingdom and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is 389 Chiswick High Road, London W4 4AL. The principal activities of The British Standards Institution (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together the ‘Group’) are the development and sale of private, national and international standards; second and third-party certification of management systems; testing and certification services both for products and services; provision of performance management software solutions; a range of training services in support of standards implementation and business best practice; and business consultancy services. The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2020. 2. Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. a. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. The consolidated financial statements are presented in British Pounds Sterling (£) and all values are rounded to the nearest £100,000 except when otherwise indicated. b. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures i. New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group The Group has applied IFRS 16, “Leases” using the retrospective method, with the cumulative effect of initial application recognized on 1 January 2019. The details of accounting policies under this new standard are disclosed in Note 2(z) and the impact of related changes is disclosed in Note 28. IFRIC 23, “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” became effective on 1 January 2019. Upon adoption of the interpretation, the Group considered whether it has any uncertain tax positions, particularly those relating to transfer pricing. The Company’s and the subsidiaries’ tax filings in different jurisdictions include deductions related to transfer pricing and the taxation authorities may challenge those tax treatments. The Group determined, based on its tax compliance and transfer pricing reviews, that it is probable that its tax treatments (including those for the subsidiaries) will be accepted by the taxation authorities. The Group’s existing accounting policy for other uncertain income tax treatments is consistent with the interpretation and did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. A number of amendments to standards are also effective from 1 January 2019 but they do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. c. Basis of consolidation i. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one-half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. The Group also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of de facto control. De facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders gives the Group power to govern the financial and operating policies. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. 92 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued c. Basis of consolidation continued i. Subsidiaries continued If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability are recognized in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in profit or loss. Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognized in assets are also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. ii. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. iii. Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. d. Segment reporting On 1 May 2018, the Group implemented a new management structure, based on business streams. As a result, information on the performance of these business streams is provided internally to the Board as the principal management information, replacing geographical regions as reported previously. The Board constitutes the chief operating decision-maker responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. Segment information is shown in Note 5. e. Foreign currency translation i. Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in British Pounds Sterling, which is the Group’s presentation currency. ii. Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. iii. Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: • assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; • income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); and • all resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. f. Property, plant and equipment All items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. bsigroup.com 93 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued f. Property, plant and equipment continued Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings 5–50 years Short leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant, machinery and office equipment 3–10 years The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. The principal factors that the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount (see Note 2h). Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognized within administrative expenses in the income statement. g. Intangible assets i. Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (CGUs), or group of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is recognized immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. ii. Computer software Acquired computer software and licences are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over three to five years, or the length of the licence as appropriate. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use; • management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits; • adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available; and • the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured. Costs include the employee costs incurred on software development. The application and infrastructure development costs of product delivery websites are also capitalized where the same criteria can be met. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over three or five years. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. iii. Acquired intangible assets On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, fair values are attributed to the acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Acquired intangibles include customer relationships, intellectual property, customer order backlog, computer software and the value of sellers’ non-compete agreements. These are capitalized based on valuations using discounted cash flow analysis and amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives. The estimated useful life of these intangible assets is one to fifteen years. 94 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued g. Intangible assets continued iv. Internally generated product development costs Product development costs, which include costs incurred on developing training courses, are capitalized only when specific criteria for capitalization, as set out in IAS 38, “Intangible Assets”, are met including consideration of probable future economic benefit. Capitalized product development costs are amortized over the asset’s estimated useful life of four or five years on a straight-line basis. h. Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life – for example, goodwill or intangible assets not ready to use – are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. i. Inventories Inventories which comprise hard copy publications held for sale and training materials are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes transport and handling costs. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory. j. Financial assets i. Classifications The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. i. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within twelve months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current. ii. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for assets with maturities greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’, ‘fixed-term deposits’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet (Notes 18 and 22). ii. Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category are presented in the income statement in the period in which they arise. k. Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. For trade and other receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized from initial recognition of the receivables; see Note 3(b) for further details. l. Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. m. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are used to manage the Group’s economic exposure to financial risks. The Group principally makes use of net investment hedges and forward currency contracts (cash flow hedge) to manage currency exposure risk on overseas operations and committed payments and does not hold or issue any other derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are recognized initially at fair value. Subsequently, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognized immediately to the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, in which case any gain or loss is taken to reserves. bsigroup.com 95 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued m. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities continued The Group designates its derivatives as either: i. hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); ii. hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge); or iii. hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge). The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 21. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than twelve months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months. i. Cash flow hedge The fair value of forward currency contracts is based on forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory or fixed assets), the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are ultimately recognized in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in depreciation in the case of fixed assets. ii. Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized in the income statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that is reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. n. Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance. o. Fixed-term deposits Fixed-term deposits are liquid investments with original maturities of over three months. p. Cash and cash equivalents In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts, that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management, are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet but are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows. q. Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 96 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued r. Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income. Management periodically evaluates the position taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. s. Provision for liabilities and charges A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. t. Employee benefits i. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their present value. ii. Bonus plans The Group recognizes a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is anticipated that there is a reasonable probability that a payment will be made. iii. Long Term Incentive Plan The Group has a Long Term Incentive Plan as referred to in the report of the Remuneration Committee. The costs of the plan are accrued and charged to the income statement over the period of the plan so as to accrue, on a pro-rata basis, the anticipated incentive payments that may vest. u. Retirement benefit obligations i. Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme in the UK, administered by independent Trustees. The scheme is closed to new entrants and closed to future accrual of pension. The Group’s net obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the scheme up to 30 April 2010 (the date the scheme closed to the accrual of benefits). That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The valuation of the Group’s net obligation is performed by an independent qualified actuary as determined by the Trustees. Pension scheme assets are measured using market values for quoted assets. The MetLife Annuity Policy asset is valued at an actuarial estimate using the assumptions shown in Note 23b. The pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit actuarial method where estimated future cash flows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. bsigroup.com 97 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued u. Retirement benefit obligations continued i. Defined benefit pension schemes continued The income statement charge is split between an operating charge and a net finance charge. The operating charge relates to administration costs of operating the scheme. The net finance charge relates to the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the scheme offset by the expected return on the assets of the scheme using that same discount rate, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year. Actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. ii. Defined contribution pension schemes The Group pays fixed contributions to an external pension provider and has no legal or constructive obligations to pay any further amounts. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due. v. Revenue Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes value added tax, returns, rebates, discounts and amounts collected on behalf of third parties and after eliminating inter-company revenue within the Group. The Group recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. For detailed description of the revenue by activity and the associated recognition principles, see Note 6. w. Incremental costs of obtaining contracts Incremental costs of obtaining contacts, such as sales commissions, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. If the expected amortization period is one year or less, then the costs are expensed when incurred. x. Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement those items of income and expense which, because of the nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow users of the consolidated financial statements to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance. y. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense when incurred. z. Leases Until the end of the 2018 financial year, leases of properties, motor vehicles and other equipment are classified as either finance leases or operating leases. Leases, in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Leases, in which the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. From 1 January 2019, each lease is recognized as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding liability for the full lease term at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognizes right-of-use assets representing the right to use of the underlying assets and lease liabilities to make lease payments. i. Right-of-use assets The Group recognizes right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease, which is the date the underlying asset is available for use. Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognized, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in the section ‘Impairment of non-financial assets’ in Note 2(h). 98 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued z. Leases continued ii. Lease liabilities At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of the lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease liabilities include the present value of the following lease payments: • fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable; • variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the commencement date; • amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees; • the exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option. Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is re-measured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments (for example, changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset. The Group is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments based on an index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset. Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. iii. Extension and termination options Extension and termination options are included in a number of property and equipment leases across the Group. These are used to maximize operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the respective lessor. iv. Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases, being those leases that have a lease term of twelve months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option. The Group also applies the recognition exemption to leases of which the underlying asset is of low value, comprising assets below the Group’s capitalization threshold. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. aa. Other income Interest income Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 3. Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. As part of an overall risk management programme, the Group focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity. Operating within these guidelines, Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. a. Market risk – foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, the Euro, the Australian Dollar, the Chinese Renminbi and the Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Management has set up a policy to require Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. Group companies are required to hedge material foreign exchange risk exposure with Group Treasury. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from known future commercial transactions and material recognized assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury. The Group buys or sells currencies forward so as to hedge exchange risk on relevant transactional activities. bsigroup.com 99 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 3. Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued a. Market risk – foreign exchange risk continued The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group does not seek to hedge these net assets and recognizes that an element of balance sheet volatility is inherent in managing foreign operations. The following table details the sensitivity of the Group’s operating profit to movements in the major currencies in which it operates. This analysis considers the impact of the British Pound Sterling strengthening by 10% against the most significant foreign currencies used by operating units in the Group. The example movement of 10% has been selected in order to demonstrate that operating profit is not particularly sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations. The average movement in each currency during the previous three annual reporting periods is shown for comparison. Adverse Three-year Average impact on 2019 average absolute operating Year-end exchange exchange profit of exchange rate rate 10% rate Currency rate movement* movement** movement Australian Dollar 1.88 1% 5% 0.1 Chinese Renminbi 9.17 (0)% 1% 0.2 Euro 1.17 (2)% 3% 0.6 Japanese Yen 143 (1)% 2% 0.2 US Dollar 1.31 (1)% 3% 1.0 * A positive exchange movement denotes Sterling strengthening against another currency. ** These movements indicate the absolute average exchange rate movement over the last three years to indicate volatility, whether positive or negative. A similar strengthening of 10% in the British Pound Sterling against all of the currencies in which the Group has exposure would result in an adverse operating profit impact of £2.5m. b. Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables. The Group considers its exposure to credit risk at 31 December to be as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents and fixed-term deposits (Note 22) 85.1 86.8 Trade receivables (Note 18) 90.9 83.8 Other receivables (Note 18) 56.0 49.5 Total credit risk 232.0 220.1 i. Risk management The Group’s credit risk from banking institutions is considered to be low. The majority of funds are held in the UK with four relationship banks (HSBC, RBS, Barclays and Lloyds), with counterparty limits operated in accordance with Board policies. Furthermore, we have a global banking arrangement with HSBC resulting in most overseas funds being held with them. All counterparties are reviewed on an ongoing basis for financial strength. Each local entity is responsible for managing and analysing the credit risk for each of their new clients before standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. New customers are reviewed for creditworthiness with credit terms amended as appropriate. The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for payment within 30–60 days. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited as the Group’s customer base is large and unrelated, and, where appropriate, individual accounts receivable are provided against. Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal loss allowance on trade receivables. 100 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 3. Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued b. Credit risk continued ii. Impairment of financial assets The Group’s trade receivables arising from all revenue are subject to the expected credit loss model. While cash and cash equivalents and other contract assets are also subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the identified impairment loss is immaterial. The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of trade receivables over a period of 36 months to 31 December 2019 or 31 December 2018, respectively, and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within these periods. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on economic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. On that basis, the loss allowance as at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 was determined as follows for trade receivables (Note 18): More than More than More than 30 days 90 days 150 days At 31 December 2019 Current past due past due past due Total Expected loss rate 0.2% 1.0% 7% 30% — Gross carrying amount – trade receivables (£m) 68.8 13.6 4.4 6.6 93.4 Loss allowance (£m) 0.1 0.1 0.3 2.0 2.5 More than More than More than 30 days 90 days 150 days At 31 December 2018 Current past due past due past due Total Expected loss rate 1.1% 1.6% 9% 29% — Gross carrying amount – trade receivables (£m) 63.3 12.3 4.5 7.0 87.1 Loss allowance (£m) 0.7 0.2 0.4 2.0 3.3 The reconciliation of the closing loss allowance on trade receivables to the opening loss allowance is shown in Note 18. Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, among others, the failure of a debtor to engage with the Company, and a failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 365 days past due. Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented as net impairment losses within operating profit. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line item. c. Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by Group Finance. Group Finance and Group Treasury monitor rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining undrawn committed borrowing facilities at all times. Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the balances required for working capital management is transferred to Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest-bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the above-mentioned forecasts. At the reporting date, the Group held no money market funds but held other liquid assets of £85.1m that are expected to readily generate cash inflows for managing liquidity risk. Prudent liquidity risk management implies the maintenance of sufficient cash and cash equivalents, the availability of funding through committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. These credit lines were unused at the year end. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flow. bsigroup.com 101 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 3. Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued c. Liquidity risk continued The table below analyses the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. As the majority of the payables are short term in nature, their fair values approximate to their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant. The Group did not hold any net-settled derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 2019 and 2018. Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 70.4 2.1 0.1 8.1 Lease liabilities 11.2 11.6 21.3 13.9 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 75.4 1.6 0.9 6.9 4. Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements. It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below. a. Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 2h. Impairment testing requires management to judge whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by value-in-use calculations, based on the net present value of future cash flows that they generate. Calculating the net present value of the future cash flows requires estimates to be made in respect of uncertain matters including management’s expectations of: • growth in adjusted EBITDA, calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortization, including an allocation of corporate overheads; • timing and amount of future capital expenditure; • long-term growth rates; and • appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved. Management prepares five-year forecasts for the Group’s operations, which are used to estimate the value in use of the Group’s cash‑generating units (CGUs). A long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined based on average growth rates of the past ten years for the countries in which the CGUs operate, obtained from the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook Database. Further details of key assumptions and a sensitivity analysis are disclosed in Note 14. b. Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognized for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilized. Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits shown in the latest approved financial projections, together with future tax planning strategies. The deferred tax assets recognized and not recognized are detailed in Note 17. 102 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 4. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued c. Retirement benefit obligations The cost of defined benefit pension schemes is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. The liabilities have been calculated by, and the assumptions have been set on the recommendations of, an independent qualified actuary. The liabilities allow for indexation of benefits in line with the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). The principal assumptions and a sensitivity analysis are detailed in Note 23b. d. Incremental costs of obtaining contracts Management judgement is required to determine the period of benefit from contracts, which is either the contract period or a calculated estimate of an average customer life based on historical data. The incremental costs of obtaining contracts are disclosed in Note 19. e. Determining the lease term of contracts with extension and termination options The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods covered by an option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised. The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. The Group applies judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the option to extend or terminate the lease. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the extension or termination. After the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to extend or to terminate (for example, construction of significant leasehold improvements or significant customization to the leased asset). Furthermore, the periods covered by termination options are included as part of the lease term only when they are reasonably certain not to be exercised. f. Leases – estimating the incremental borrowing rate Where the Group cannot readily determine the interest rate implicit in the lease, it uses its incremental borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is the rate of interest that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. The IBR therefore reflects what the Group ‘would have to pay’, which requires estimation when no observable rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the lease. To estimate the IBR, the Group obtains from HSBC or other local banks indicative borrowing rates on hypothetical borrowing transactions. The amount to be borrowed in each case would be based on the total undiscounted future cash flows under a lease, in the same currency as required by the lease agreement, with a repayment profile that mirrors the timing of the expected lease payments. The borrowing would be without any security and backed up only by the strength of the individual entity’s latest available financial statements (or management accounts if the local entity does not have statutory reporting obligation). Once decided, the IBR will remain unchanged unless there are modifications in lease terms or changes in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset. 5. Segment information On 1 May 2018, the Group implemented a new management structure based on business streams. As a result, information on the performance of these business streams is provided internally to the Board as the principal management information, replacing geographical regions as reported previously. The Board constitutes the chief operating decision-maker responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. The business streams reported are: • Knowledge – comprises Standards Development, Services and Information Solution businesses. • Assurance Services – comprises Systems Certification, Product Certification and Training businesses. • Regulatory Services – comprises Systems Certification and Product Certification into the Medical Devices industry. • Consulting Services – comprises two businesses, an Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S) consultancy and a Cyber Security and Information Resilience (CSIR) consultancy. bsigroup.com 103 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 5. Segment information continued Governance and support functions comprise those functions responsible for directional oversight and policy framework creation and compliance for the Group as well as support functions to the business streams, mainly Commercial and Sector Management, Finance, Information Technology, Human Resources, Facilities and Legal. These are not allocated to business streams. The performance of these business stream segments is measured at operating profit before exceptional costs and that treatment is reported here. This measure excludes the financing costs and actuarial adjustments of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, finance income, finance costs, income tax expenses and the effects of exceptional operating costs from the operating segments. The segment information provided to the Board for the reportable segments for the years ended 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is as follows: Governance/ Assurance Regulatory Consulting support Knowledge Services Services Services functions Total 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 66.5 283.0 119.4 79.2 — 548.1 Operating profit before exceptional costs 32.0 79.5 45.3 13.8 (112.3) 58.3 Depreciation and amortization (0.9) (3.1) (0.7) (0.4) (15.9) (21.0) Finance income — — — — 0.4 0.4 Finance costs — — — — (3.9) (3.9) Income tax expense — — — — (15.3) (15.3) Governance/ Assurance Regulatory Consulting support Knowledge Services Services Services functions Total 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 65.2 277.4 92.7 76.6 — 511.9 Operating profit before exceptional costs 30.7 82.4 35.1 14.5 (100.9) 61.8 Depreciation and amortization (1.7) (1.5) (0.4) (0.4) (8.5) (12.5) Finance income — — — — 0.5 0.5 Finance costs — — — — (1.9) (1.9) Income tax expense — — — — (16.1) (16.1) The chief operating decision-maker is provided with the Group balance sheet. No segmental balance sheet is reported, because the business streams, as the primary segments, do not manage the balance sheet. A reconciliation of operating profit before exceptional costs to profit before income tax is provided as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m Operating profit before exceptional costs 58.3 61.8 Acquisition costs (Note 7) (2.3) (1.9) Restructuring and reorganization (Note 7) (1.3) (0.9) UK defined benefit plan – GMP adjustment (Note 7) — (2.5) Finance income 0.4 0.5 Finance costs (3.9) (1.9) Profit before income tax 51.2 55.1 As the Group transacts with a large number of diversified customers, there are no cumulative revenue transactions amounting to 10% or more of total external revenue derived from any single external customer (2018: none). 104 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 6. Revenue a. Nature of goods and services The following is a description of the principal activities, separated by reportable segments, from which the Group generates its revenue. For more information about reportable segments see Note 5. i. Knowledge The Group’s Knowledge business stream comprises Standards Development, Services and Information Solutions businesses. The main sources of external revenue and basis for revenue recognition in this segment are set out below: • Document revenue Document revenue originates from the sale of publications in hard and/or soft copy. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods passes to the customer. • Subscription revenue Subscription revenue mainly derives from providing access to BSI’s intellectual property and support services, during the subscription period, e.g. BSI’s information services, access to published standards information, newsletters, advisory and support services, discounts on products and invitations to events and seminars. Where there is an ongoing performance obligation for BSI to maintain the intellectual property being accessed, e.g. to keep it up to date and maintain its value to the client, revenue is recognized over the duration of the subscription period. Where there are no further performance obligations for BSI after granting a licence, revenue is recognized at the time the licence is granted. • Copyright and royalties Copyright revenue relates to the grant of a licence to use Knowledge intellectual property over the licence period e.g. to use all or part of a specific publication in a client document. Copyright revenues are recognized at the time the right-to-use licence is granted. Royalty revenue derives from the grant of licences allowing access to Knowledge intellectual property based on client usage. Revenue is recognized on the basis of usage or over the licence period depending on the contract. • Consultancy Consultancy activity within Knowledge arises from contracts which vary in length, some of which are over a year in duration. Revenue is recognized on consultancy dependent on the nature of the contract. The contracts are a mixture of time and material-based contracts where revenue is recognized over time and contracts where revenue is recognized when the right to consideration is established based on delivery of the whole project or when project milestones have been achieved. ii. Assurance Services The Group’s Assurance Services business stream comprises Systems Certification, Product Certification and Training businesses. Assessment and certification services These incorporate a number of more discrete services, the main constituents of which are: • Application fee This covers administration and planning costs up to the date of the certification review and for advancing the client’s application to the point of assessment. The fee is non-refundable and payable upon submission of the client’s signed acceptance of the proposal, with a very specific starter pack being sent out to the client after committing to certification being the deliverable for this activity. Revenue is recognized when this activity is delivered. • Annual management fee (AMF) The AMF grants access to a number of BSI’s information websites together with a number of other assessment and certification services and information. BSI has an ongoing obligation to maintain the information and services being provided over the period of the AMF subscription. Revenue is recognized over the period of the subscription. • Assessment and certification These contracts are time and materials based, generally delivered by a number of on-site visits by appropriately qualified staff, each over the course of a few days, and/or remote assessments by similarly qualified staff. Revenue is recognized over the period of delivery. Product testing and certification • Kitemark licence fee The annual Kitemark licence once granted does not require any further obligation on BSI over the licence period. Revenue is recognized at the point the licence is granted. • Provision of testing services This is to assess whether a product conforms to required specifications. Depending on the individual contract, revenue may be recognized on a percentage of work completed or across the duration of the testing period. Training services The revenue-generating activity comprises the delivery of both public and bespoke/in-house training courses and conferences utilizing both classroom and web/digital formats. Revenue is recognized on delivery of the training. bsigroup.com 105 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 6. Revenue continued a. Nature of goods and services continued iii. Regulatory Services The Group’s Regulatory Services business stream comprises Systems Certification and Product Certification into the Medical Devices industry. • Regulatory assessment and certification services and the discrete constituent services within these are as set out above under ‘Assurance Services – assessment and certification services’. In summary, revenue for the application fee is recognized once a client order has been processed and the starter pack issued; the revenue for the annual management fee is recognized over its annual period; and the revenue for assessment and certification services is recognized over the period of delivery of the services. • CE marking – document and technical file reviews This comprises the audit review of document and technical files and delivering a conclusion as to whether the requirements of the relative directives are met. Revenue is recognized over the review period. iv. Consulting Services The Group’s Consulting Services business stream comprises two businesses, an Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S) consultancy and a Cyber Security and Information Resilience (CSIR) consultancy. • Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Security (EH3S) and Cyber Security and Information Resilience (CSIR) Revenue is generally recognized for services such as consulting, penetration testing and reviewing client systems on a time and materials basis. Revenue is recognized on a contract-by-contract basis for services that involve the granting of software licences or the sale of software. Immediate recognition of the revenue is appropriate where BSI has no ongoing performance obligations following transfer of software or the granting of a licence. Revenue is spread over the duration of ongoing performance obligations arising under all other contracts. Training revenue is recognized when the training is delivered. • Supply chain services Supply chain services include grants of licences to access BSI maintained content, consulting and training services and the provision and installation of software. Revenue is recognized on all of the above over time in line with the service being delivered. • Other consulting Revenue is recognized over time where the contract relates to a time and materials type of contract, or when project milestones are achieved, where the contract indicates that best represents the transfer of value and control to the client. b. Disaggregation of revenue In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by business segment (see Note 5), primary geographical market and timing of revenue recognition. Assurance Regulatory Consulting Knowledge Services Services Services Total 2019 £m £m £m £m £m Primary geographical markets EMEA 66.4 124.7 39.7 13.2 244.0 Americas — 46.6 70.8 64.0 181.4 Asia Pacific 0.1 111.7 8.9 2.0 122.7 Revenue from external customers 66.5 283.0 119.4 79.2 548.1 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 29.5 260.6 90.0 7.9 389.5 Over time 37.0 22.4 29.4 71.3 158.6 66.5 283.0 119.4 79.2 548.1 106 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 6. Revenue continued b. Disaggregation of revenue continued Assurance Regulatory Consulting Knowledge Services Services Services Total 2018 £m £m £m £m £m Primary geographical markets EMEA 65.0 121.3 27.2 13.9 227.4 Americas — 50.2 54.6 59.6 164.4 Asia Pacific 0.2 105.9 10.9 3.1 120.1 Revenue from external customers 65.2 277.4 92.7 76.6 511.9 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 29.5 255.6 78.0 9.4 372.5 Over time 35.7 21.8 14.7 67.2 139.4 65.2 277.4 92.7 76.6 511.9 c. Contract balances The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers. 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Receivables, which are included in ‘Trade and other receivables’ (Note 18) 93.4 87.1 Contract assets, included in ‘Contract costs’ (Note 19) and ‘Trade and other receivables’ (Note 18) 47.7 43.5 Contract liabilities (Note 25) (29.9) (31.9) Significant changes in the contract assets and the contract liabilities balances are as follows: 2019 Contract Contract assets liabilities £m £m Revenue recognized that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the period — 31.9 Increases due to cash received, excluding amounts recognized as revenue during the period — (29.9) Costs recognized that were included in the contract asset balance at the beginning of the period (4.0) — Increases due to cash paid, excluding amounts recognized as costs during the period 5.1 — 2018 Contract Contract assets liabilities £m £m Revenue recognized that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the period — 29.5 Increases due to cash received, excluding amounts recognized as revenue during the period — (31.4) Costs recognized that were included in the contract asset balance at the beginning of the period (3.2) — Increases due to cash paid, excluding amounts recognized as costs during the period 5.1 — bsigroup.com 107 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 7. Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following: 2019 2018 Note £m £m Employee benefit expense 8 281.5 247.5 Operating lease payments for plant and machinery 10 — 1.8 Operating lease payments for land and buildings 10 — 8.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 5.7 5.2 Loss on disposal of tangible assets 13 0.5 0.1 Amortization of intangible assets 14 6.7 7.3 Impairment of intangible assets 14 0.2 0.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 14 — 0.1 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 16 8.6 — Loss allowance on trade receivables 18 0.3 1.0 Bad debts written off to profit or loss directly 0.7 — Other exchange losses/(gains) 1.1 (0.1) Expenses relating to short-term leases 0.5 — Auditors’ remuneration: Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.5 Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and their associates for other services: – The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 – Tax advisory services — 0.1 2019 2018 Exceptional operating costs £m £m Acquisition costs (2.3) (1.9) Restructuring and reorganization (1.3) (0.9) UK defined benefit plan – GMP adjustment — (2.5) Total exceptional operating costs (3.6) (5.3) Exceptional operating costs amounted to £3.6m (2018: £5.3m) and comprised: • £2.3m of costs mainly relating to retention payments on the acquisitions made in 2016 of BSI Services and Solutions (NYC) Inc. (formerly Creative Environment Solutions Corporation), BSI Services and Solutions East Inc. (Quantum Management Group, Inc. (QMG) and Atrium Environmental Health and Safety Services, LLC (‘Atrium’), BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (Ireland) Limited, BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (UK) Limited, in 2017 the Neville-Clarke Group and in 2018 AirCert GmbH (‘AirCert’); together with costs of acquiring AppSec Consulting, Inc. (‘AppSec’) and Health and Disability Auditing New Zealand Limited (HDANZ) in 2019 (Note 15); and • £1.3m of costs relating to a major programme of restructuring to establish a client service centre of operations and compliance in EMEA. In 2018, exceptional operating costs comprised: • £1.9m of costs associated with the acquisitions of BSI Services and Solutions (NYC) Inc. (formerly Creative Environment Solutions Corporation), BSI Services and Solutions (West) Inc., BSI Services and Solutions East Inc. (Quantum Management Group, Inc. (QMG) and Atrium Environmental Health and Safety Services, LLC (‘Atrium’), BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (Ireland) Limited, BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (UK) Limited and the Neville-Clarke Group (Note 15); • £0.9m of costs relating to a major programme of restructuring and reorganization in the Group; and • £2.5m relating to an adjustment to pension costs to equalize the benefits between male and female members who have a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). GMP is a portion of pension that was accrued by individuals who were contracted out of the State Second Pension prior to 6 April 1997 and where historically there was inequality of benefits between male and female members. The corporation tax impact of exceptional items is £0.5m credit (2018: £1.0m credit). 108 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 8. Employee benefit expense 2019 2018 Note £m £m Wages and salaries (including termination benefits of £1.7m (2018: £1.8m)) 238.9 207.8 Social security costs 26.6 22.8 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) expense — 1.3 Other pension costs – defined contribution plans 23a 16.0 13.1 UK defined benefit plan – GMP adjustment 7 — 2.5 Employee benefit expense charged in arriving at operating profit 7 281.5 247.5 Net pension finance costs 11, 23b 1.7 1.9 Total employee benefit expense charged in arriving at profit before income tax 283.2 249.4 The monthly average number of full-time equivalent individuals (including Board members) employed by the Group during the year was: 2019 2018 Number Number Production, assessment, training and laboratory 2,920 2,687 Sales and distribution 920 918 Administration 806 711 Total employees 4,646 4,316 External resource 443 468 Total headcount 5,089 4,784 External resource comprises assessors, tutors and consultants operating under a services agreement to provide the capacity, geographic presence or specialist knowledge locally to deliver BSI’s services to its clients. 9. Directors’ emoluments The emoluments of the Executive and Non-Executive Board members during the year are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 66 to 75. 10. Operating leases From 1 January 2019, the Group has recognized right-of-use assets for all leases, except for short-term and low-value leases; see Note 16 for further information. The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2019 2018 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total £m £m £m £m £m £m No later than 1 year — — — 8.9 1.7 10.6 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years — — — 23.3 2.7 26.0 Later than 5 years — — — 7.2 — 7.2 Minimum lease payments — — — 39.4 4.4 43.8 The Group leases various properties, motor vehicles and other equipment around the world with three of these leases considered significant. The Group headquarters office in London is leased under a non-cancellable lease up to November 2025, with a rent review in November 2020 based on the Retail Prices Index (RPI) with an appropriate cap and collar. The second significant lease relates to a UK regional office in Milton Keynes that has a non-cancellable lease for a term of fifteen years from July 2011, with regular rent reviews based on open market rent. The third significant lease relates to the Americas regional office in Herndon (US) which has a non-cancellable period of eleven years from February 2014, with fixed rent increases each year. The other UK and overseas leases are typically for ten years or less. bsigroup.com 109 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 11. Finance income and costs 2019 2018 £m £m Bank interest receivable on cash, short and fixed-term deposits 0.4 0.5 Finance income 0.4 0.5 Net interest on the net defined benefit pension obligation (Note 8 and Note 23b) (1.7) (1.9) Interest on lease liabilities (Note 16) (2.2) — Finance costs (3.9) (1.9) 12. Income tax expense 2019 2018 £m £m Current tax UK tax current year 4.9 4.1 UK tax prior years (0.2) — Foreign tax current year 8.6 12.0 Foreign tax prior years 0.4 0.5 Total current tax 13.7 16.6 Deferred tax (Note 17) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 (0.1) Prior year deferred tax adjustments 0.2 (0.4) Total deferred tax 0.9 (0.5) Total income tax expense 14.6 16.1 The tax on the Group’s profit before tax is higher (2018: higher) than the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average UK statutory tax rate of 19.0% (2018: 19.0%) applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m Profit before income tax 51.2 55.1 Tax calculated at the weighted average UK statutory tax rate of 19.0% (2018: 19.0%) 9.7 10.5 Effects of: – Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 2.6 – Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognized 0.7 0.4 – Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 1.9 2.5 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods: – UK (0.2) (0.4) – Foreign 0.4 0.5 Total income tax expense 14.6 16.1 The Group effective tax rate (ETR) on profits before tax and goodwill impairment for the year is 28.5% (2018: 29.2%). The ETR at 28.5% comprises a current year tax charge of 28.1% and a net prior year tax charge of 0.4% arising from net under-provided UK and foreign tax. The ETR for the Group’s underlying business operations for the current year is 26.7% (2018: 27.9%) after removing the tax impact of non-operational exceptional costs, finance costs and items related to prior years. The ETR at 28.5% is further reconciled from the UK statutory tax rate of 19.0% by additional higher overseas Group taxes of 3.7%, prior years’ tax charge of 0.4% and the net ETR increase of 5.4% for Group tax permanent and temporary differences and tax losses not recognized. 110 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 13. Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Plant, Short Assets machinery leasehold under and office Freehold improvements construction equipment Total £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 1 January 2018 11.3 10.6 1.1 27.1 50.1 Additions — — 2.8 2.5 5.3 Disposals — (0.2) — (1.2) (1.4) Reclassifications 0.5 0.2 (3.0) 2.3 — Exchange differences — — — 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2018 11.8 10.6 0.9 31.3 54.6 Additions — 0.1 2.8 3.7 6.6 Disposals — — (0.3) (2.3) (2.6) Reclassifications 0.1 0.1 (2.2) 2.0 — Exchange differences — — — (0.6) (0.6) At 31 December 2019 11.9 10.8 1.2 34.1 58.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 (2.9) (3.0) — (18.1) (24.0) Charge for the year (Note 7) (0.4) (1.0) — (3.8) (5.2) Disposals — 0.2 — 1.1 1.3 Exchange differences — — — (0.4) (0.4) At 31 December 2018 (3.3) (3.8) — (21.2) (28.3) Charge for the year (Note 7) (0.4) (1.0) — (4.3) (5.7) Disposals — — — 2.1 2.1 Exchange differences — — — 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2019 (3.7) (4.8) — (22.9) (31.4) Net book value at 31 December 2019 8.2 6.0 1.2 11.2 26.6 Net book value at 31 December 2018 8.5 6.8 0.9 10.1 26.3 Depreciation charges are included within administrative expenses in the income statement. Depreciation is not charged on assets under construction. Capital commitments in respect of property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure of £1.0m (2018: £0.2m) has been contracted for but not provided for in the consolidated financial statements. bsigroup.com 111 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 14. Intangible assets Computer software Customer relationships Internally and other generated acquired product Externally Internally intangible development Goodwill acquired generated assets costs Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 1 January 2018 71.7 17.2 16.2 29.7 3.5 138.3 Additions — 4.6 0.3 — 0.7 5.6 Additions: acquisition of a subsidiary 0.9 — — — — 0.9 Disposals — (0.5) (0.1) — (0.1) (0.7) Reclassification — 0.2 (0.2) — — — Exchange differences 1.3 — 0.1 0.7 — 2.1 At 31 December 2018 73.9 21.5 16.3 30.4 4.1 146.2 Additions — 9.8 0.8 — 0.8 11.4 Additions: acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 15) 6.1 — — 3.6 — 9.7 Disposals — (0.6) — — — (0.6) Exchange differences (1.7) 0.1 (0.2) (1.0) — (2.8) At 31 December 2019 78.3 30.8 16.9 33.0 4.9 163.9 Accumulated amortization and impairment At 1 January 2018 (6.4) (11.9) (11.0) (11.7) (2.2) (43.2) Charge for the year (Note 7) — (1.9) (2.5) (2.4) (0.5) (7.3) Disposals — 0.5 — — 0.1 0.6 Impairment loss (Note 7) — (0.4) — — — (0.4) Exchange differences — — (0.1) (0.3) — (0.4) At 31 December 2018 (6.4) (13.7) (13.6) (14.4) (2.6) (50.7) Charge for the year (Note 7) — (2.0) (1.5) (2.6) (0.6) (6.7) Disposals — 0.6 — — — 0.6 Impairment loss (Note 7) — (0.2) — — — (0.2) Exchange differences — 0.1 0.1 0.3 — 0.5 At 31 December 2019 (6.4) (15.2) (15.0) (16.7) (3.2) (56.5) Net book value at 31 December 2019 71.9 15.6 1.9 16.3 1.7 107.4 Net book value at 31 December 2018 67.5 7.8 2.7 16.0 1.5 95.5 Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets consist of intangible assets externally acquired. Capitalized training course development costs are captured under internally generated product development costs. Amortization charges are included within cost of sales or administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement, as appropriate. Capital commitments in respect of computer software £0.1m (2018: £2.0m) capital expenditure has been contracted for but not provided for in the consolidated financial statements. Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is currently allocated to the Group’s CGUs identified according to geographical area operating segment. This allocation is consistent with historical allocations of goodwill. During 2020, management plans to reassess these allocations to align more closely with business stream reporting, which is now the primary reporting method used by the Group. An operating segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below: EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Total £m £m £m £m 2019 24.4 32.2 15.3 71.9 2018 24.9 27.8 14.8 67.5 112 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 14. Intangible assets continued Impairment tests for goodwill continued At an individual level, the most significant individual CGU only accounts for 13% of the total goodwill balance and there are 20 CGUs in total. As such, management considers it appropriate to disclose the details of these CGUs in aggregate. The recoverable amount of each CGU within the aggregation of units in the table above is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections covering five years (2018: three years), based on a subset of the financial budgets and strategic plans approved by the Board, unless more specific and recent projections exist. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a long term growth rate based on average growth rates of the past ten years for the countries in which the CGUs operate. These growth rates are obtained from the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook Database. Discount rates applied to the cash flow forecasts are pre-tax, derived using the capital asset pricing model. The following table sets out the key assumptions for the aggregated units: EMEA Americas Asia Pacific % % % 2019 Revenue (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan) 5.9–11.7 7.8–11.8 4.5–8.7 Adjusted EBITDA margin (average % across the five-year plan)* 8.4–36.2 13.1–29.0 14.7–19.6 Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 3.8–50.9 11.7–24.9 3.5–18.2 Long-term growth rate (%) 0.2–6.2 2.1–2.3 2.6–7.6 Pre-tax discount rate (%) 7.9–15.4 9.9–10.0 9.1–12.9 2018 Revenue (% annual growth rate across the three-year plan) 1.0–41.9 10.3–16.7 4.3–15.2 Adjusted EBITDA margin (average % across the three-year plan)* 12.0–25.6 11.9–31.6 17.4–26.5 Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 4.3–12.0 9.9–43.0 8.3–37.9 Long-term growth rate (%) (0.3)–5.3 1.8 2.6–7.9 Pre-tax discount rate (%) 8.3–19.9 11.3–11.8 11.0–19.9 * Adjusted EBITDA, used as the basis for determining cash flows, is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortization, including an allocation of corporate overheads. The impairment tests arrived at a range of headroom for the CGUs tested. As a result of these tests, no charge for impairment has been included in the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimate: impact of possible changes in key assumptions The principal assumptions on which the impairment tests are performed are detailed above. The Group tests on an annual basis whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. EMEA There are three individual CGUs within this group of units where it is considered that a reasonably possible change in assumptions could result in the carrying value exceeding their recoverable amounts. The value of the goodwill associated with these CGUs is £9.0m. The key assumptions assigned to this specific group of CGUs in 2019 are as follows: % Revenue (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan) 9.0–10.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin (average % across the five-year plan)* 8.4–17.3 Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 31.7–39.0 Long-term growth rate (%) 1.7–6.2 Pre-tax discount rate (%) 7.9–15.4 The recoverable amount of each entity within this group of CGUs would equal its carrying amount if the key assumptions were to change as follows: % ppt change Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 10.4–20.1 (11.6)–(28.6) Long-term growth rate (%) (7.7)–(96.5) (13.9)–(98.4) Pre-tax discount rate (%) 17.1–29.3 9.2–18.9 * Adjusted EBITDA, used as the basis for determining cash flows, is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortization, including an allocation of corporate overheads. bsigroup.com 113 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 14. Intangible assets continued Impairment tests for goodwill continued Americas There is one CGU within this group of units where it is considered that a reasonably possible change in assumptions could result in the carrying value exceeding its recoverable amount. The value of the goodwill associated with this CGU is £8.5m. The key assumptions assigned to this specific CGU are as follows: % Revenue (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan) 11.5 Adjusted EBITDA margin (average % across the five-year plan)* 13.1 Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 21.1 Long-term growth rate (%) 2.3 Pre-tax discount rate (%) 9.9 The recoverable amount of this CGU would equal its carrying amount if the key assumptions were to change as follows: % ppt change Resultant adjusted EBITDA (% annual growth rate across the five-year plan)* 6.9 (14.2) Long-term growth rate (%) (18.0) (20.3) Pre-tax discount rate (%) 19.5 9.6 * Adjusted EBITDA, used as the basis for determining cash flows, is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortization, including an allocation of corporate overheads. Result of the impairment tests Management has considered and assessed reasonably possible changes for other key assumptions and has not identified any instances where these could cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount. As a result of this analysis, no impairment is reported in the 2019 financial accounts (2018: £nil). 15. Business combinations i. Acquisition of AppSec Consulting, Inc. (‘AppSec’) On 2 April 2019, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of AppSec, a Cybersecurity and Information Resilience (CSIR) company based in San Jose, California, in the US, for a consideration of USD 10.6m (£8.1m). AppSec has a strong reputation in the US cyber security sector and works with a wide range of clients. Although AppSec’s initial focus was on web application security, penetration testing and developer training, it has since successfully diversified into providing strategic cyber security, data privacy and a range of governance, risk and compliance advisory services. This acquisition supports the global growth of the Group’s Consulting Services business stream and enables the Group to expand its CSIR offering into a market where BSI already has an excellent reputation for information security and a wide client base. ii. Acquisition of Health and Disability Auditing New Zealand Ltd. (HDANZ) On 31 July 2019, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of HDANZ, a successful auditing organization based in Christchurch, New Zealand, for a consideration of NZD 2.4m (£1.3m). Goodwill recognized arising from the acquisition was £0.9m, based on a valuation method adopted in a similar historical acquisition. HDANZ was established as a designated auditing agency under the New Zealand Health and Disabilities Services Act and is an industry leader in the country’s healthcare services market. HDANZ’s team of experts supports clients across New Zealand. Its services predominantly cover aged residential care, residential disability services, mental health/addictions, home care, physiotherapy/allied health, hospitals, retirement villages and a range of other services. 114 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 15. Business combinations continued The following table summarizes the consideration for each acquisition and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition dates: AppSec HDANZ Total £m £m £m Purchase consideration Cash 6.8 1.1 7.9 Deferred consideration outstanding 1.3 0.2 1.5 Total purchase consideration 8.1 1.3 9.4 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.1 0.3 Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets (Note 14) 3.1 0.5 3.6 Right-of-use asset (Note 16) 0.3 — 0.3 Lease liability (Note 16) (0.3) — (0.3) Trade and other receivables 0.7 0.4 1.1 Trade and other payables (0.4) (0.4) (0.8) Deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangibles (Note 17) (0.7) (0.2) (0.9) Total identifiable net assets 2.9 0.4 3.3 Goodwill (included in intangibles) (Note 14) 5.2 0.9 6.1 Total 8.1 1.3 9.4 Goodwill of £6.1m arising from the acquisitions is attributable to future synergies expected from combining the operations of the Group and of the new acquisitions, together with the fair value of the assembled workforce. The goodwill recognized is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The following table summarizes the revenue and operating profit before exceptional costs that would have been included in the consolidated income statement had AppSec and HDANZ been consolidated from 1 January 2019. AppSec HDANZ Total £m £m £m Revenue 4.7 1.5 6.2 Operating profit before exceptional costs (0.2) 0.1 (0.1) 16. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities The Group has lease contracts for properties, motor vehicles and other equipment used in its operations. Leases of properties generally have lease terms between two and fifteen years, while motor vehicles and other equipment generally have lease terms between two and five years. The Group’s obligations under its leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. Generally, the Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased assets. There are several lease contracts that include extension and termination options and variable lease payments. The Group also has certain property leases with lease terms of twelve months or less and leases of other equipment with low-value underlying assets. The Group applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions for these leases. bsigroup.com 115 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 16. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities continued Set out below are the carrying amounts of right-of-use assets recognized and the movements during the year: Motor Other Properties vehicles equipment Total £m £m £m £m Cost At 1 January 2019 53.0 6.2 0.2 59.4 Additions 9.7 3.1 — 12.8 Additions: acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 15) 0.3 — — 0.3 Disposals (0.5) (1.6) — (2.1) Exchange (1.4) — — (1.4) At 31 December 2019 61.1 7.7 0.2 69.0 Accumulated amortization and impairment At 1 January 2019 (22.2) (2.7) (0.1) (25.0) Charge for the year (Note 7) (6.8) (1.8) — (8.6) Disposals 0.2 1.6 — 1.8 Exchange 0.6 — — 0.6 At 31 December 2019 (28.2) (2.9) (0.1) (31.2) Net book value at 31 December 2019 32.9 4.8 0.1 37.8 Net book value at 1 January 2019 (Note 28) 30.8 3.5 0.1 34.4 Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year: Motor Other Properties vehicles equipment Total £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2019 (Note 28) (43.7) (3.6) (0.1) (47.4) Additions (9.7) (3.1) — (12.8) Additions: acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 15) (0.3) — — (0.3) Disposals 0.3 — — 0.3 Accretion of interest (Note 11) (1.9) (0.3) — (2.2) Payments 8.7 2.1 0.1 10.9 Exchange 1.1 0.1 (0.1) 1.1 At 31 December 2019 (45.5) (4.8) (0.1) (50.4) Current (9.6) (1.7) — (11.3) Non-current (35.9) (3.1) (0.1) (39.1) The following are amounts recognized in the consolidated income statement: 2019 £m Properties 6.8 Motor vehicles 1.8 Other equipment — Depreciation of right-of-use assets 8.6 Interest expense (included in finance costs) 2.2 Expense relating to short-term leases (included in cost of sales and administrative expenses) 0.5 Expense relating to leases of low-value assets (included in administrative expenses) — Total amount recognized in consolidated income statement 11.3 The total cash outflow for right-of-use asset leases in 2019 was £10.9m. 116 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 17. Deferred tax 2019 2018 £m £m Deferred tax assets: Gross deferred tax assets 30.7 24.1 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction (14.3) (5.4) Net deferred tax assets 16.4 18.7 – To be recovered after more than twelve months 9.7 13.3 – To be recovered within twelve months 6.7 5.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Gross deferred tax liabilities (20.6) (10.7) Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 14.3 5.4 Net deferred tax liabilities (6.3) (5.3) – To be incurred after more than twelve months (5.9) (4.0) – To be incurred within twelve months (0.4) (1.3) Net deferred tax assets 10.1 13.4 Movement on the net deferred tax account 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 13.4 16.6 Impact of change in accounting policy (Note 28) 1.5 — Adjusted balance at 1 January 14.9 16.6 Acquisitions of subsidiaries (Note 15) (0.9) — Income statement tax credited (Note 12) (0.9) 0.5 Tax charged to equity relating to retirement benefit obligations (2.5) (3.5) Exchange differences (0.5) (0.2) At 31 December 10.1 13.4 Gross movement on the deferred tax account The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, was as follows: Accelerated Other capital temporary allowances Pension Losses Leases differences Total Deferred tax assets £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 2.3 16.0 1.5 — 7.0 26.8 Credited/(charged) to the income statement 0.5 — (0.8) — 0.5 0.2 Charged directly to reserves — (3.5) — — — (3.5) Exchange differences — — 0.1 — 0.5 0.6 At 31 December 2018 2.8 12.5 0.8 — 8.0 24.1 At 1 January 2019 2.8 12.5 0.8 — 8.0 24.1 Impact of change in accounting policy (Note 28) — — — 10.2 — 10.2 Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 2.8 12.5 0.8 10.2 8.0 34.3 (Charged)/credited to the income statement (0.6) — 0.9 0.4 (1.8) (1.1) Charged directly to reserves — (2.5) — — — (2.5) Exchange differences — — (0.1) 0.2 (0.1) — At 31 December 2019 2.2 10.0 1.6 10.8 6.1 30.7 bsigroup.com 117 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 17. Deferred tax continued Gross movement on the deferred tax account continued Capitalized Other contract temporary costs Leases differences Total Deferred tax liabilities £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 (3.0) — (7.2) (10.2) (Charged)/credited to the income statement (0.5) — 0.8 0.3 Exchange differences (0.1) — (0.7) (0.8) At 31 December 2018 (3.6) — (7.1) (10.7) At 1 January 2019 (3.6) — (7.1) (10.7) Impact of change in accounting policy (Note 28) — (8.7) — (8.7) Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 (3.6) (8.7) (7.1) (19.4) Credited/(charged) to the income statement 0.1 (0.3) 0.4 0.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 15) — — (0.9) (0.9) Exchange differences — (0.3) (0.2) (0.5) At 31 December 2019 (3.5) (9.3) (7.8) (20.6) The deferred tax charged directly to reserves during the year was £2.5m (2018: charge of £3.5m) which related to the retirement benefit obligation. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is recognized to the extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognize deferred tax assets of £2.7m (2018: £2.0m) in respect of cumulative tax losses amounting to £9.1m (2018: £6.2m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. 18. Trade and other receivables 2019 2018 £m £m Trade receivables 93.4 87.1 Less: loss allowance (2.5) (3.3) Trade receivables – net 90.9 83.8 Other receivables 13.7 13.2 Prepayments 10.2 7.7 Accrued income 32.1 28.6 Total trade and other receivables 146.9 133.3 Less non-current portion: – Other receivables (8.3) (7.1) Current portion of trade and other receivables 138.6 126.2 Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30–60 day (2018: 30–60 day) terms. As the majority of the receivables are short term in nature, the fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant. 118 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 18. Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2019 2018 £m £m British Pounds Sterling 35.5 35.1 US Dollars 58.1 44.7 Euros 16.4 18.5 Chinese Renminbi 4.9 4.3 Japanese Yen 5.8 5.2 Australian Dollars 4.7 1.3 Other currencies 21.5 24.2 Total trade and other receivables 146.9 133.3 Movements on the Group loss allowance on trade receivables are as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 3.3 3.2 Increase in loss allowance recognized in profit or loss during the year 0.7 1.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (1.0) (1.0) Unused amounts reversed (0.4) (0.1) Exchange differences (0.1) 0.1 At 31 December 2.5 3.3 The creation and release of the loss allowance on receivables have been included within administrative expenses in the income statement. Receivables are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold collateral as security. 19. Contract costs Incremental costs of obtaining contacts, such as sales commissions, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates (i.e. over the estimated period of benefit). Applying the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, the Group recognizes the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that the Group otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. Movements on the contract costs balance are as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 14.9 12.6 Capitalization during the year 5.7 6.0 Amortization during the year (4.6) (4.0) Exchange differences (0.4) 0.3 At 31 December 15.6 14.9 bsigroup.com 119 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 20. Inventories 2019 2018 £m £m Consumables 0.1 0.1 Total inventories 0.1 0.1 21. Derivative financial instruments 2019 2018 £m £m Current assets Forward foreign exchange contracts — 0.1 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2019 were £1.9m (2018: £23.1m). The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. The fair value measurement adopted is categorized as Level 2 (2018: Level 2) within the fair value measurement hierarchy set out in IFRS 7. All contracts are current as all will mature within one year. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. 22. Fixed-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents a. Fixed-term deposits The Group has invested £15.0m of cash in a fixed-term bank deposit (2018: £15.0m), subject to a notice period of 95 days. This is classified within the consolidated statement of cash flows under investing activities as it does not fall within the definition of cash and cash equivalents. In the consolidated balance sheet this fixed-term deposit is shown within current assets. b. Cash and cash equivalents 2019 2018 £m £m Cash at bank and in hand 70.0 70.1 Short-term deposits 0.1 1.7 Total cash and cash equivalents 70.1 71.8 No bank overdraft facilities were in use at 31 December 2019 (2018: £nil). The balance above corresponds to cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement. The fair value of cash and short-term deposits at 31 December 2019 was £70.1m (2018: £71.8m). The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of cash and short-term deposits mentioned above. The interest rate risk profile and currency profile of cash and cash equivalents and fixed-term deposits were: 2019 2018 Fixed Floating Non-interest Fixed Floating Non-interest rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Currency British Pounds Sterling — 40.1 13.0 53.1 — 48.5 12.9 61.4 Chinese Renminbi — 8.7 — 8.7 — 5.1 — 5.1 US Dollars — — 7.7 7.7 — — 4.2 4.2 Euros 0.3 0.5 2.3 3.1 0.3 0.7 1.5 2.5 Australian Dollars — — 3.0 3.0 1.8 1.7 — 3.5 Japanese Yen 0.6 — 0.4 1.0 0.3 — 0.1 0.4 Other currencies 1.4 — 7.1 8.5 0.9 1.4 7.4 9.7 Total 2.3 49.3 33.5 85.1 3.3 57.4 26.1 86.8 120 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 23. Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates the following retirement benefit schemes: a. Defined contribution schemes The Group offers a group personal pension plan to all new UK employees. The associated costs for the year were £10.1m (2018: £8.9m). In addition, a number of other money purchase schemes are operated in overseas companies, with costs for the year totalling £5.9m (2018: £4.2m). b. Defined benefit schemes i. UK defined benefit plan The Group operates a defined benefit plan in the UK (the ‘Plan’) which provides benefits linked to salary on retirement or earlier date of leaving service. The Plan closed to new entrants and future accrual as at 30 April 2010, although the link to final salary remains whilst members are still employed by the Company. The Plan operates under the regulatory framework of the Pensions Act 2004. The Trustees have the primary responsibility for governance of the Plan. The Trustees comprise representatives of the Company, an independent Trustee and members of the Plan. Benefit payments are from Trustee-administered funds and Plan assets are held in a Trust which is governed by UK regulation. The risks to which the Plan exposes the Group are as follows: • Asset volatility – if Plan assets do not move in line with Plan liabilities then a deficit may arise. The Trustees hold a buy-in policy which broadly immunizes around £85m (2018: £89m) of the liabilities to changes in market conditions. The Trustees monitor the appropriateness of the Plan’s investment strategy, in consultation with the Company, on an ongoing basis. • Inflation risk – a significant proportion of benefits are linked to inflation and so increases in inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although in most cases there are caps in place which protect against extreme inflation). • Longevity – increases in life expectancy will increase the period over which the benefits are expected to be payable, which increases the value placed on the Plan’s liabilities. A valuation of the UK defined benefit plan was carried out under the Statutory Funding Objective as at 31 March 2019. This revealed an ongoing funding level of 83% (31 March 2016: 80%). The Group subsequently agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustees which was put in place from 1 April 2019. It requires contributions from the Group to improve the funding level of the Plan and to cover the expenses of running the Plan. The Group agreed to pay total contributions of £66.5m over the period from 1 April 2019 to 31 August 2024, replacing the previous annual contribution of £13.5m payable in March with monthly contributions payable from February 2020. As a result, expected contributions to the retirement benefit plan for the year ending 31 December 2020 are £27.1m, comprising the monthly payments and a one-off contribution of £12.9m in January 2020. Contributions in respect of future service benefits ceased on 30 April 2010. The Group paid a total of £13.5m in additional contributions to the Plan during 2019 (2018: £13.5m). Balance sheet The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m Present value of defined benefit obligations 436.3 410.8 Fair value of plan assets (378.9) (339.1) Net liability in the balance sheet 57.4 71.7 bsigroup.com 121 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 23. Retirement benefit obligations continued b. Defined benefit schemes continued i. UK defined benefit plan continued The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year was as follows: Present Fair value value of of plan obligation assets Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 440.3 (350.3) 90.0 Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement: – Administration expenses — 0.5 0.5 – Service cost – GMP adjustment (Note 7) 2.5 — 2.5 – Interest expense/(income) (Note 8, Note 11) 10.6 (8.7) 1.9 13.1 (8.2) 4.9 Re-measurements: – Loss on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense — 18.6 18.6 – Gain from change in demographic assumptions (3.8) — (3.8) – Gain from change in financial assumptions (25.0) — (25.0) – Experience losses 0.5 — 0.5 (28.3) 18.6 (9.7) Contributions: – Employers — (13.5) (13.5) Payments from plans: – Disbursements (14.3) 14.3 — (14.3) 0.8 (13.5) At 31 December 2018 410.8 (339.1) 71.7 Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement: – Administration expenses — 0.7 0.7 – Interest expense/(income) (Note 8, Note 11) 11.5 (9.8) 1.7 11.5 (9.1) 2.4 Re-measurements: – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense — (31.0) (31.0) – Gain from change in demographic assumptions (14.3) — (14.3) – Loss from change in financial assumptions 50.5 — 50.5 – Experience gains (8.4) — (8.4) 27.8 (31.0) (3.2) Contributions: – Employers — (13.5) (13.5) Payments from plans: – Disbursements (13.8) 13.8 — (13.8) 0.3 (13.5) At 31 December 2019 436.3 (378.9) 57.4 122 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 23. Retirement benefit obligations continued b. Defined benefit schemes continued i. UK defined benefit plan continued Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2019 2018 % p.a. % p.a. Rate of increase in salaries 4.05 4.30 Rate of revaluation in deferment 2.05 2.30 Pension increase rate: – RPI (min. 3%, max. 5%) 3.50 3.60 – CPI (min. 3%, max. 5%) 3.20 3.30 Discount rate 2.00 2.85 Inflation assumption – RPI 3.05 3.30 Inflation assumption – CPI 2.05 2.30 Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics. Life expectancy at age 65 for a member currently aged 45 is 23.3 (2018: 24.6) years (men) or 25.7 (2018: 26.2) years (women). Life expectancy for a member currently aged 65 is 22.0 (2018: 23.2) years (men) or 24.3 (2018: 24.6) years (women). Plan assets are comprised as follows: Value at 31 December 2019 Value at 31 December 2018 £m £m Schroders Diversified Growth Fund 117.8 31% 90.4 27% Standard Life Global Absolute Return Strategies Fund 70.2 19% 64.5 19% M&G Credit Fund 20.3 5% 20.0 6% Schroders Liability-Driven Investments 52.2 14% 38.3 11% Schroders Corporate Bond Fund — — 10.4 3% Alcentra Credit Fund 19.8 5% 20.8 6% Cash 13.6 4% 5.3 2% MetLife Annuity Policy 85.0 22% 89.4 26% Total fair value of plan assets 378.9 100% 339.1 100% The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is sixteen years (2018: sixteen years). Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the net defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Increase/(decrease) in present value of deficit at 31 December 2019 Increase in Decrease in Change in assumption assumption assumption £m £m Discount rate 0.25% p.a. (14.4) 16.2 Inflation rate* 0.25% p.a. 3.5 (3.1) Salary escalation 0.25% 0.5 Life expectancy Approximately 1 year 12.4 * This sensitivity allows for the impact on all inflation related assumptions (salary increases, deferred revaluation and pension increases, subject to relevant caps and floors). ii. Other defined benefit schemes The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in Taiwan, Germany, Indonesia and the Philippines which provide benefits based on final pensionable salary and service. The net liability recognized in the balance sheet at 31 December 2019 is £2.2m (2018: £1.9m). £0.4m (2018: £0.2m) was charged to the income statement in relation to these schemes and the Group made contributions of £0.2m (2018: £0.2m). bsigroup.com 123 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 23. Retirement benefit obligations continued b. Defined benefit schemes continued iii. Re-measurements of post-employment benefit obligations recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2019 2018 £m £m Gain/(loss) on re-measurements of defined benefit plan net liabilities – UK 3.2 9.7 – Overseas (0.1) (0.5) 3.1 9.2 Tax on re-measurements of defined benefit plan net liabilities – Deferred tax charge (Note 17) (2.5) (3.5) – Current tax credit 2.1 1.7 Re-measurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of taxes 2.7 7.4 24. Provisions for liabilities and charges Property Other provisions provisions Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 1.2 0.9 2.1 Charged to the income statement 0.2 0.5 0.7 Amount utilized in the period — (0.1) (0.1) Exchange differences — 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2018 1.4 1.5 2.9 Charged to the income statement 0.1 0.3 0.4 Amount utilized in the period (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) Unused amount reversed in the period — (0.2) (0.2) Exchange differences — (0.1) (0.1) At 31 December 2019 1.4 1.3 2.7 The property provisions are held against dilapidations. The Group has used either the known position or a best estimate of the Group’s potential exposure to calculate the potential cost to BSI Group over the remaining lease periods. Other provisions relate to amounts required to cover end-of-service indemnity pursuant to the United Arab Emirates Federal Labour Law and other employment-related provisions. Provisions are recognized at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability. Analysis of total provisions: 2019 2018 £m £m Non-current 2.4 2.3 Current 0.3 0.6 Total provisions for liabilities and charges 2.7 2.9 Cash outflows associated with these provisions are uncertain but the majority are expected to materialize within three years. Given the uncertainty over timing of the eventual outflows they have not been discounted. 124 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 25. Trade and other payables 2019 2018 £m £m Trade payables 7.5 9.8 VAT and sales taxes 4.8 4.2 Other taxes and social security 5.7 5.3 Other payables 16.5 17.1 Accruals 46.2 48.4 Deferred income 29.9 31.9 Total trade and other payables 110.6 116.7 Less non-current portion: – Trade and other payables (10.3) (9.4) Current portion of trade and other payables 100.3 107.3 The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2019 2018 £m £m British Pounds Sterling 48.0 57.0 US Dollars 23.5 25.8 Euros 10.4 7.4 Chinese Renminbi 6.2 5.9 Japanese Yen 3.2 3.5 Australian Dollars 2.5 3.0 Other currencies 16.8 14.1 Total trade and other payables 110.6 116.7 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30–60 day (2018: 30–60 day) terms. Other payables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30–90 day (2018: 30–90 day) terms. As the majority of payables are short term in nature, the fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant. 26. Financial assets a. Financial assets by category Other financial assets At 31 December 2019 £m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income (Note 18) 104.6 Fixed-term deposits (Note 22a) 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 22b) 70.1 Total 189.7 Other financial liabilities at amortized cost At 31 December 2019 £m Liabilities as per balance sheet Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities (Note 25) 80.7 Lease liabilities (Note 16) 50.4 Total 131.1 bsigroup.com 125 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 26. Financial assets continued a. Financial assets by category continued Cash flow Other hedges at financial fair value assets At 31 December 2018 £m £m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income (Note 18) — 97.0 Derivative financial instruments (Note 21) 0.1 — Fixed-term deposits (Note 22a) — 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 22b) — 71.8 Total 0.1 183.8 Other financial liabilities at amortized cost At 31 December 2018 £m Liabilities as per balance sheet Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities (Note 25) 84.8 Total 84.8 b. Credit quality of financial assets The Directors consider the credit risk associated with fully performing financial assets to be immaterial to the Group. 27. Contingent liabilities In the normal course of its business the Group faces legal actions and claims. Based on legal advice and taking into account the availability of insurance and provisions, the Board does not expect these legal actions or claims to have a significant impact upon the Group. In relation to the acquisition or establishment of new businesses in overseas jurisdictions, the Group follows the requirements of local laws, regulations and conventions in the relevant jurisdictions. These may require the creation of structures or arrangements with vendors or local partners or other third parties whereby the Group assumes contingent liabilities of such parties which may or may not materialize. Taking into account experience to date, the Board has made provisions where appropriate. In relation to the disposal of businesses, the Group has given warranties and indemnities to the purchasers. In light of local legal and taxation advice, experience to date and the availability of insurance and provisions, the Board does not expect these warranties and indemnities to have a significant impact on the Group. In the normal course of its business, the Group from time to time provides advance payment guarantees, performance bonds and other bonds in connection with its activities. Taking into account experience to date and the availability of provisions, the Board does not expect these bonds and guarantees to have a significant impact on the Group. 28. Changes in accounting policy Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. The Group has applied IFRS 16, “Leases” using the modified retrospective approach, under which the cumulative effect of initial application is recognized in retained earnings at 1 January 2019. Accordingly, the comparative information presented for 2018 is not restated, i.e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 17 and related interpretations. The details of the significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are set out below. a. Definition of a lease Previously, the Group determined at contract inception whether an arrangement was or contained a lease under IFRIC 4, “Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease”. The Group now assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease based on the definition of a lease, as explained in Note 2(z). On transition to IFRS 16, the Group elected to apply the practical expedient to grandfather the assessment of which transactions are leases. The Group applied IFRS 16 only to contracts that were previously identified as leases. Contracts that were not identified as leases under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 were not reassessed for whether there is a lease under IFRS 16. Therefore, the definition of a lease under IFRS 16 was applied only to contracts entered into or changed on or after 1 January 2019. 126 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 28. Changes in accounting policy continued b. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities As a lessee, the Group leases a portfolio of assets including properties, motor vehicles and other equipment. The Group previously classified leases as operating or finance leases based on its assessment of whether the lease transferred significantly all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset to the Group. Under IFRS 16, the Group recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most of these leases. For leases that were previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17, lease liabilities on transition were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or the incremental borrowing rate as at 1 January 2019. Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognized, initial direct costs incurred and lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received (see Note 2(z)). The Group has tested its right-of-use assets for impairment on the date of transition and has concluded that there is no indication that the right-of-use assets are impaired. c. Practical expedients The Group used a number of practical expedients when applying IFRS 16 to leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17. In particular, the Group applied: • application of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics; • exclusion of initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application; • hindsight to determine the lease term; • exclusion of low-value leases – leases for which the underlying assets are below the Group’s capitalization threshold; and • exclusion of short-term leases – leases with lease term ending within twelve months of the date of initial application. d. Impact of implementation The implementation of IFRS 16 has resulted in the following adjustments to the opening balances at 1 January 2019: 1 January 2019 £m Right-of-use assets (Note 16) 34.4 Deferred tax assets (Note 17) 10.2 Trade and other receivables (0.4) Trade and other payables 6.2 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 17) (8.7) Lease liabilities (Note 16) (47.4) Retained earnings at 1 January 2019 (5.7) When measuring lease liabilities for leases that were classified as operating leases, the Group discounted lease payments on transition using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2019. The weighted average rate applied is 4.31%. A reconciliation of the operating lease commitments disclosed in the 2018 consolidated financial statements to the lease liabilities on transition is set out below: £m Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 as disclosed under IAS 17 in the Group’s consolidated financial statements 43.8 Discount on lease commitments, as described above (4.0) Discounted lease commitments at 1 January 2019 39.8 Recognition exemption for short-term leases (0.2) Extension and termination options reasonably certain to be exercised 7.8 Lease liabilities recognized at 1 January 2019 47.4 Of which are: Current lease liabilities 7.6 Non-current lease liabilities 39.8 bsigroup.com 127 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 28. Changes in accounting policy continued The following tables summarize the impacts of adopting IFRS 16 on the Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019. Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2019 Impact of changes in accounting policy Balances 31 December without 2019 adoption of as reported Adjustments IFRS 16 £m £m £m Revenue 548.1 — 548.1 Cost of sales (294.4) (0.1) (294.5) Selling and distribution expenses (71.5) (0.1) (71.6) Administrative expenses (123.9) (1.5) (125.4) Exceptional operating costs (3.6) — (3.6) Finance income 0.4 — 0.4 Finance costs (3.9) 2.2 (1.7) Income tax expense (14.6) (0.1) (14.7) Profit for the year 36.6 0.4 37.0 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2019 Impact of changes in accounting policy Balances 31 December without 2019 adoption of as reported Adjustments IFRS 16 £m £m £m Profit for the year 36.6 0.4 37.0 Other comprehensive loss for the year (1.8) — (1.8) Total comprehensive income for the year 34.8 0.4 35.2 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 Impact of changes in accounting policy Balances 31 December without 2019 adoption of as reported Adjustments IFRS 16 £m £m £m Right-of-use assets 37.8 (37.8) — Deferred tax assets 16.4 (1.5) 14.9 Trade and other receivables 146.9 0.4 147.3 Other assets 240.3 — 240.3 Total assets 441.4 (38.9) 402.5 Trade and other payables (110.6) (5.6) (116.2) Lease liabilities (50.4) 50.4 — Other liabilities (73.0) — (73.0) Total liabilities (234.0) 44.8 (189.2) General reserves (204.4) (6.1) (210.5) Translation reserves (3.0) 0.2 (2.8) Total equity (207.4) (5.9) (213.3) 128 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 28. Changes in accounting policy continued Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2019 Impact of changes in accounting policy Balances 31 December without 2019 adoption of as reported Adjustments IFRS 16 £m £m £m Profit before income tax 51.2 0.5 51.7 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 8.6 (8.6) — Finance costs 3.9 (2.2) 1.7 Increase in trade and other payables 1.8 (0.6) 1.2 Interest elements of lease payments (2.2) 2.2 — Others (28.7) — (28.7) Net cash from operating activities 34.6 (8.7) 25.9 Net cash used in investing activities (25.6) — (25.6) Principal elements of lease payments (8.7) 8.7 — Net cash used in financing activity (8.7) 8.7 — Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.3 — 0.3 29. Related party transactions Transactions with related parties have been determined in accordance with IAS 24 and are disclosed below: a. Pension scheme Trustees Transactions with the pension scheme Trustees are disclosed in Note 23. b. Key management Key management of the Group includes the Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) and other members of the Executive Committee. Emoluments of the Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 66 to 75. Emoluments paid to other members of the Executive Committee for employee services are shown in the table below: 2019 2018 £m £m Salaries and short-term benefits 2.3 2.2 Terminations and post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 Other long-term benefits 0.1 0.7 Total emoluments 2.6 3.2 30. Interests in Group undertakings Country of incorporation or Proportion Name Registered office address registration held* Activity AirCert GmbH Maria-Merian-Strasse 8, 85521, Germany 100% Business Ottobrunn, Germany services AppSec Consulting, Inc. (acquired 2 April 2019) 6110 Hellyer Avenue, Suite 100, San Jose, USA 100% Business CA, 95138, United States services British Standards Institution Group Calle Juan Esplandiu, 15 3a plta, 28007, Spain 100% Business Iberia S.A.U. Madrid, Spain services British Standards Institution Group Middle 4605 Palm Tower B, West Bay, Doha, Qatar 49% Business East WLC*** PO Box 27774, Qatar services BSI America Professional Services Inc. 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE, 19808, USA 100% Business United States services BSI Assurance UK Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services BSI Brasil Sistemas de Gestao Ltda Av. Pres. Juscelino Kubitschek, 1327 – 20º andar Brazil 100% Business 04543-011 – São Paulo, Brasil services bsigroup.com 129 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 30. Interests in Group undertakings continued Country of incorporation or Proportion Name Registered office address registration held* Activity BSI Certification and Technical Training Room 2002, No. 24A Jianguomenwai Street, China 100% Business (Beijing) Limited Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100004, China services BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience Corrig Court, Corrig Road, Sandyford Industrial Ireland 100% Business (Ireland) Limited Estate, Dublin, D18C6K1, Ireland services BSI Cybersecurity and Information Resilience 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business (UK) Limited W4 4AL, England services BSI Group (Thailand) Co., Ltd 127/25 Panjathani Tower, 20th Floor, Thailand 100% Business Nonsee Road, Chongnonsee, Yannawa, services Bangkok, 10120, Thailand BSI Group America Inc. 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, USA 100% Business DE, 19808, United States services BSI Group ANZ Holdings Pty Ltd Level 23, 35 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Australia 100% Holding NSW 2000, Australia company BSI Group ANZ Pty Limited Level 23, 35 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Australia 100% Business NSW 2000, Australia services BSI Group Assurance Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Holding W4 4AL, England company BSI Group Australia Holdings PTY Limited Level 23, 35 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Australia 100% Holding NSW 2000, Australia company BSI Group Canada Inc. Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, Suite 1800, Canada 100% Business Toronto, Canada M5J 2T9 services BSI Group Deutschland GmbH Eastgate, Hanauer Landstrasse 115, 60314, Germany 100% Business Frankfurt a.m., Germany services BSI Group Eurasia Belgelendirrme Hizmetleri Degirmen Sk No: 16 Ar Plaza, A-Blok Kat: Turkey 100% Business Limited Sirketi 6 Ofis: 61–62, Kozyatagi – Kadikoy, Erenkoy, services Istanbul, Turkey BSI Group France Sarl 19 rue Alphonse de Neuville, 75017, Paris, France France 98% Business services BSI Group Holdings The Netherlands BV Thomas R Malthusstraat 3c, 1066 JR Amsterdam, The 100% Holding The Netherlands Netherlands company BSI Group India Private Limited A-2 Mira Corporate Suites, Plot 1 & 2, Ishwar India 100% Business Nagar, Mathura Road, New Delhi, 110020, India services BSI Group Italia S.R.L. Via Gustavo Fara, 35 20124, Milano, Italy Italy 100% Business services BSI Group Japan K.K. Seizan Bldg. 5F, 2-12-28 Kita-Aoyama, Minato-ku, Japan 100% Business Tokyo 107-0061, Japan services BSI Group Korea Limited Insa-dong, Tdehwa Bldgo, 8th Floor, 29 Insa-dong, South Korea 100% Business 5-gil, Jongo-gu, Seoul, South Korea services BSI Group KSA Office No. 4, Rawana Plaza, 7925 Saudi Arabia 100% Business Uthman ibn Affan, Al Taawun, Riyadh services 12478 – 4080, Saudi Arabia BSI Group Mexico S dr RL de CV Av. Paseo de la Reforma 505, Piso 50, 06500 Mexico 100% Business Ciudad de México, CDMX, Mexico services BSI Group Nordics AB (established on c/o Hummelkläppen i Stockholm AB, Sweden 100% Business 20 May 2019 and registered on 10 June 2019; Villagatan 19, 114 32 Stockholm, Sweden services formerly known as Goldcup 18790 AB) BSI Group Polska Spolka z o.o. UL Krolewska, nr. 16, Lok, Kod 00-103, Poczta, Poland 100% Business Warszawa, Poland services 130 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 30. Interests in Group undertakings continued Country of incorporation or Proportion Name Registered office address registration held* Activity BSI Group Singapore Pte Limited 77 Robinson Road, Unit #28-01 & #28-03, Singapore 100% Business Singapore, 068896 services BSI Group South Africa (Pty) Limited*** De Haviland Crescent Nr. 5, Ill Villaggio Nr. 12, South Africa 74% Business Persequor, Pretoria, South Africa services BSI Group The Netherlands BV Thomas R Malthusstraat 3c, 1066 JR Amsterdam, The 100% Business The Netherlands Netherlands services BSI Healthcare Saudi Arabia LLC SFDA Building, 2nd Floor Office, 854 Al Olaya Saudi Arabia 100% Business Street, Riyadh, Al Ghadheer Area, Saudi Arabia services BSI International Projects Sarl 19 rue Alphonse de Neuville, 75017, Paris, France France 100% Business services BSI Limited** 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Holding W4 4AL, England company BSI Management Systems Certification Room 2008, East Ocean Centre, No. 24A China 100% Business (Beijing) Co. Ltd Jianguomenwai Street, Beijing, 100004, China services BSI Management Systems CIS LLC Panfilova str. 19/4, Khimki, 141407, Moscow reg., Russia 100% Business Russian Federation services BSI Management Systems Ltd 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services BSI Group New Zealand Limited 11a Wynyard Street, Devonport, Auckland, 0624, New Zealand 100% Business (formerly known as BSI New Zealand Limited) New Zealand services BSI Pacific Limited 23rd Floor, Cambridge House, Taikoo Place, 979 Hong Kong 100% Business King’s Road, Island East, Hong Kong services BSI Pension Trust Limited** 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Pension W4 4AL, England plan trustee BSI Professional Services Asia Pacific Limited 23rd Floor, Cambridge House, Taikoo Place, 979 Hong Kong 100% Business King’s Road, Island East, Hong Kong services BSI Professional Services EMEA Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services BSI Professional Services Holdings Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Holding W4 4AL, England company BSI Professional Services Japan Co., Limited 2-12-28 Kitaaoyama Minato-ku, Japan 100% Business Tokyo 107-0061, Japan services BSI Services (Asia Pacific) Sdn Bhd Suite 25.01, Level 25, Centrepoint South, Malaysia 100% Business The Boulevard, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran services Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia BSI Services and Solutions (West) Inc. 2150 North First Street, Suite 450, San Jose, USA 100% Business CA, 95131, United States services BSI Services and Solutions East Inc. 1187 Main Avenue, Suite 2B, Clifton, NJ, 07011, USA 100% Business United States services BSI Services and Solutions NYC Inc. 80 State Street, Albany, NY, 12207, United States USA 100% Business services BSI Services Holdings Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services BSI Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Unit 10-03, Level 10, Tower A, The Vertical Malaysia 100% Business Business Suites, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan services Kerinchi, 59200, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia bsigroup.com 131 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 30. Interests in Group undertakings continued Country of incorporation or Proportion Name Registered office address registration held* Activity BSI Standards Holdings Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Holding W4 4AL, England company BSI Standards Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services BSI Vietnam Co., Ltd Suite 1106, 11F/L Citilight Tower, 45 Vo Thi Vietnam 100% Business Sau Street, Dakao Ward, District 1, Ho Chi services Minh City, Vietnam Espion UK Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services Health and Disability Auditing New Zealand Gannaway Mercer Ltd, Chartered Accountants, New Zealand 100% Business Limited (acquired 31 July 2019 and 11a Wynyard Street, Devonport, Auckland, 0624, services amalgamated with BSI Group New Zealand New Zealand Limited 31 December 2019) Hypercat Alliance Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Business W4 4AL, England services Neville-Clarke (M) Sdn Bhd*** Level 15-2, Faber Imperial Court, Julan Sultan Malaysia 30% Business Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah services Persekutuan, Malaysia Neville-Clarke (Singapore) Pte Ltd 331 North Bridge Road, #12-03 Odeon Towers, Singapore 100% Business Singapore 188720 services Neville-Clarke International Pte Ltd 331 North Bridge Road, #12-03 Odeon Towers, Singapore 100% Business Singapore 188720 services Neville-Clarke International Sdn Bhd Level 15-2, Faber Imperial Court, Julan Sultan Malaysia 100% Business Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah services Persekutuan, Malaysia Neville-Clarke International Limited 389 Chiswick High Road, London England 100% Holding W4 4AL, England company BSI Group Philippines, Inc (formerly known as Unit 2408, The Orient Square, Emerald Avenue, The >99% Business Neville Clarke Philippines, Inc) Ortigas Center, Pasig City, The Philippines Philippines services PT BSI Group Indonesia Talavera Office Park, Jl. TB. Simatupang kav.2, Indonesia 100% Business Talaver 2 Suite, 20 Floor, Jakarta 12430, Indonesia services PT Neville-Clarke Indonesia Menara Bidakara 2, Lantai 3, Jl. Jendral Gatot Indonesia 100% Business Subroto Kav. 71–73, Komplek Bidakara, Jakarta services Selatan, Indonesia * Percentage of ordinary share capital. ** C  ompanies directly owned by the British Standards Institution. *** The non-controlling shareholders have no residual interest in the companies’ assets, therefore the Group consolidates 100% of the companies’ assets and results. All the above subsidiaries are controlled by the Group and are accounted for by acquisition accounting. 132 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 31. Post-balance sheet events In the light of recent developments, we have assessed the potential implications of the coronavirus pandemic for the Group and its Financial Statements. As detailed in the Directors’ Report, additional work has been performed to consider the impact of coronavirus on the ongoing business and, while there will be an economic impact, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next twelve months. At this time, we consider the impact of coronavirus to the Group to be short-term. Quarter 1 2020 revenue and profit are robust but will be adversely affected for the full year. While some business may be lost, much of it will merely be deferred, as it is driven by clients’ regulatory or supply chain requirements. Parts of our business are able to operate remotely and our Regulatory Services business stream, in particular, retains a strong order book. Some of our clients may also face credit-related issues but, as stated in the Group’s assessment of credit risk (Note 3b), the Group’s customer base is large and unrelated and concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited. As a result of the economic impacts of coronavirus, there have been movements in the valuation of the assets held by the UK defined benefit pension scheme, and the discount rates used to value its liabilities. While these impacts have been considerable during recent weeks, they remain short-term volatility in long-term assets and liabilities. We have an agreed schedule of contributions that is reviewed every three years, and actuarial swings in the deficit are taken into consideration at the time of each triennial valuation. The impact of the coronavirus pandemic has taken place since December 2019 and it is therefore a non-adjusting event. No changes resulting from the impact of coronavirus have been made to the valuation of any assets or liabilities in our 2019 Financial Statements. We have considered the impact of the virus on the judgements made at 31 December on the carrying value of tangible and intangible fixed assets. Given our view that the impact of the virus is likely to be short term, our assessment is that this will not materially affect the carrying value of these assets. The full impact will be reviewed during 2020 and any impairments, provisions or other adjustments will be taken, as required, in the 2020 Financial Statements. bsigroup.com 133 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the parent company financial statements Opinion In our opinion, The British Standards Institution’s parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”): • give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2019; • have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”, and applicable law); and • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual Report”), which comprise: the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 and the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Our audit approach Overview Materiality • Overall materiality: £469,000 (2018: £503,247), based on 1% of total expenses. • We performed a full scope audit of the parent company. • We have engaged pension specialists to perform work over the defined benefit pension plan. Audit scope • Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities. Key audit matters The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 134 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Report on the audit of the parent company financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities To address this risk, we have designed and performed procedures The parent company has defined benefit pension plans with net over the report issued to the Directors by the actuary. We have retirement benefit obligation liabilities of £57.4m, which are significant engaged our actuarial experts to assist in the assessment of the in the context of the overall balance sheet of the parent company. methodology and assumptions underpinning the pension liabilities. The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels The following procedures have been performed: of judgement and technical expertise in applying appropriate • Review of the methodology applied by the actuary assessing its assumptions. The key assumptions include discount rates, RPI and appropriateness and consistency with prior periods. CPI inflation rates and mortality rates. • Assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions supporting the The Directors employ actuarial experts to assist them in identifying discount rates, mortality and inflation rates by comparing them appropriate assumptions and valuing the liabilities in the scheme. to our independently developed benchmarks. Given the magnitude of the pensions liabilities, changes in • Rollforward of the liabilities was performed to ensure the assumptions or valuations could potentially result in material reasonableness of the impact of changes in the defined changes to the net position recognised. assumptions during the period. • Testing over the census data of members. The assumptions, methodologies and valuations subject to our procedures were supported by the work performed. Assessment of the implications of COVID-19 and assessment of the In assessing the Directors’ conclusion that the Company is a Going Concern assumption in light of the potential associated cash Going Concern; we performed the following procedures: flow challenges • agreed the underlying cash flow projections to management In light of recent developments management has performed approved forecasts, assessed how these forecasts are compiled, additional work to consider the impact of COVID-19 and in and assessed the accuracy of management’s historical forecasts; particular with respect to their going concern and viability assessments for the Company. This has been considered at a Group • evaluated management assumptions regarding the revenue and wide level, due to the Company not making its own revenues. associated EBITDA reductions associated with COVID-19, together with assumptions regarding cash collections from customers; In performing this assessment management has modelled a downside scenario which includes an average monthly revenue reduction of 24% • evaluated the assumptions in respect of the costs that could be through Q2 (13% reduction through the full year) compared to budget. avoided in a period of significant revenue reduction; Management also assumes a significant increase in their cash • assessed the impact of the mitigating factors available to collection period and an increased default rate of 2%. management in including the ability to restrict capital The Group has set up a sub-committee of the Board who are expenditure and the associated cash impact; responsible for reviewing its response to COVID-19 with respect to • checked the mathematical accuracy of the spreadsheet used to the 2019 annual report and accounts. Management has identified a model future financial performance; number of mitigations, which include a recruitment freeze, further • considered the adequacy of the disclosures included by discretionary cost reductions such as travel and subsistence, management within the annual report, and considered the professional fees, contractor fees, training and promotion and consistency with other statements and disclosures; and publicity, reducing the use of external resource and deferring capital expenditure and elements of employee remuneration. In • considered the impact of our own, more pessimistic scenarios, considering all aspects of their position, management has also regarding both profitability and cash collections. We have further engaged in conversations with tax authorities around the world to sensitised management’s models, considering severe however consider the possibility of delaying payments to understand the plausible changes to their base assumptions. In our worst-case options available to the Group. In addition to this management has scenario, we have assumed an average monthly revenue reduction engaged with the trustees of the UK Defined Benefit Pension of 43% through Q2 (26% reduction through the full year) compared Scheme to discuss temporarily stopping the additional pension to budget. We have also further elongated the cash collection funding through 2020. The Group currently does not have access assumptions. In addition to this we have assumed a further to debt facilities; however, management has also engaged in increase to the rate of default of 15%. Given the level of sensitivity conversations with its banks to understand the possibility of applied, we have also taken into account some of the cost mitigations access to funding should it be required. available to the Group, such as deferral of elements of employee remuneration to 2021, reduction in tax payments as a result of Based on the review performed, as discussed with their sublower profits and reduction of capex spend. committee, management considers the Company to be able to prepare their accounts on a going concern basis, albeit with Based on the further sensitivities performed and the cost additional disclosures around the risks faced by the business due mitigations available to the Company we have concurred with the to the uncertainty over the extent and duration of the impact of directors’ assessment that there are no material uncertainties COVID-19. These disclosures have been included on pages 77 and related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 78 of the annual report. about the ability of the company to continue as a going concern. In forming our opinion on the financial statements, we have considered We consider the disclosures included within the accounts related the directors’ conclusion that the Company is a Going Concern. to this to be adequate. bsigroup.com 135 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report continued to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Report on the audit of the parent company financial statements continued Our audit approach continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality £469,000 (2018: £503,247). How we determined it 1% of total expenses. Rationale for The parent company’s operations encompass corporate centre, servicing the UK’s Group’s pension benchmark applied obligations and charges related to the national standards body. We have deemed that the key indicator for the performance of the parent company is related to the expenses recognised centrally and we have therefore used total expenses. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £24,800 (2018: £25,162) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Going concern In accordance with ISAs (UK) we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. draw attention to in respect of the Directors’ statement in the However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, financial statements about whether the Directors considered it this statement is not a guarantee as to the Parent Company’s ability appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in to continue as a going concern. preparing the financial statements and the Directors’ identification of any material uncertainties to the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities. With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included. Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 (CA06) and ISAs (UK) require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below (required by ISAs (UK) unless otherwise stated). 136 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Report on the audit of the parent company financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Reporting on other information continued Strategic Report and Directors’ Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. (CA06) In light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report. (CA06) The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the parent company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the parent company As a result of the Directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to regarding: • The Directors’ confirmation on page 27 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the parent company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. • The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. • The Directors’ explanation on page 78 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Parent Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Parent Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. We have nothing to report in respect of this responsibility. Other Code Provisions As a result of the Directors’ reporting on how they have applied the Code, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • The statement given by the Directors, on page 59, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the Board of Directors to assess the parent company’s position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit. • The section of the Annual Report on page 61 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. We have nothing to report in respect of this responsibility. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report. bsigroup.com 137 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors’ report continued to the Board of Directors of The British Standards Institution Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Board of Directors of the parent company as a body to enable the Board to discharge its stewardship and fiduciary responsibilities under the terms of the Royal Charter and Bye-laws and where applicable and possible the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Other voluntary reporting Directors’ remuneration The parent company voluntarily prepares a Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Directors requested that we audit the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the parent company were a quoted company. In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Other matter We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of The British Standards Institution for the year ended 31 December 2019. Owen Mackney (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Watford 27 March 2020 138 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 2018 2019 restated* Note £m £m Fixed assets Intangible assets 5 14.4 7.0 Tangible assets 6 11.1 12.0 Investment in subsidiaries 7 68.3 39.9 93.8 58.9 Current assets Debtors (including £5.6m (2018: £11.7m) due after one year) 8 172.5 184.0 Fixed-term deposits 9 15.0 15.0 Cash at bank and in hand 39.3 48.2 226.8 247.2 Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 10 (180.0) (160.0) Net current assets 46.8 87.2 Total assets less current liabilities 140.6 146.1 Defined benefit pension liability 13 (57.4) (71.7) Provision for liabilities 11 (0.1) (0.1) Net assets 83.1 74.3 Reserves Non-distributable reserves 4.3 4.3 Retained earnings 78.8 70.0 Total equity 83.1 74.3 * Refer to Note 3 for the amendment to the comparative numbers. The Company’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2019 was £6.0m (2018: £16.0m). The accompanying notes on pages 141 to 153 form an integral part of the parent company financial statements. The financial statements on pages 139 and 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by: Craig Smith FCCA Group Finance Director 27 March 2020 bsigroup.com 139 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Parent company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2019 Nondistributable Retained reserves earnings Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 4.3 46.1 50.4 Profit for the year, net of taxes — 16.0 16.0 Movement in actuarial valuation of defined benefit pension scheme, net of taxes — 7.9 7.9 At 31 December 2018 4.3 70.0 74.3 Profit for the year, net of taxes — 6.0 6.0 Movement in actuarial valuation of defined benefit pension scheme, net of taxes — 2.8 2.8 At 31 December 2019 4.3 78.8 83.1 Retained earnings Retained earnings represent accumulated comprehensive income for the year and prior years. Non-distributable reserve The non-distributable reserve arose on the revaluation of an investment property on transition to FRS 102 and includes the associated deferred tax of £0.9m (2018: £0.9m). 140 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 Notes to the parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 1. Statement of compliance The individual financial statements of The British Standards Institution have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland” (FRS 102), and the Companies Act 2006. 2. Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. a. Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and certain financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 102 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. These areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 4. b. Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. c. Exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102 FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions. The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions: • FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(b), from preparing a statement of cash flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Company’s cash flows are included in the Group consolidated financial statements; and • FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(e), from disclosing key management personnel compensation in total. d. Exemptions under Companies Act 2006 In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of The British Standards Institution has not been separately presented in these financial statements. The retained profit for the year is shown in the statement of changes in equity. e. Foreign currencies i. Functional and presentation currency The Company’s functional and presentation currency is the British Pound Sterling (£) and all values are rounded to the nearest £100,000 except when otherwise indicated. ii. Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at contracted rates or, where no contract exists, at average monthly rates. Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are taken to the profit and loss account. f. Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Company’s activities. Revenue is calculated net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts allowed by the Company. The Company recognizes revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured; it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. The Company bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Significant categories of revenue and the recognition criteria for each are detailed below. i. Rendering of services Membership, subscriptions and annual management fees provide varying levels of service, which can include access to information services, published standards information, newsletters, advisory services, discounts on products and invitations to events and seminars. Revenue is spread over the life of the arrangement, which is normally one year but can vary depending on the level of service and specific agreements with customers. ii. Copyright and royalty income The Company recognizes copyright and royalty income on an accrual basis or when it is advised by the customer, generally on a monthly basis. Where there are licence arrangements, fees are spread over the life of the licence. g. Interest income Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. h. Dividend income Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established. bsigroup.com 141 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued i. Financial instruments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments. i. Financial assets Basic financial instruments, including trade and other receivables, cash at bank and loans to fellow subsidiary companies, are initially recognized at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Such assets are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. At the end of each reporting period, financial assets measured at amortized cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment. If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. The impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss. Other financial assets are initially measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price. Such assets are subsequently carried at fair value and the changes in fair value are recognized in the profit or loss, except that investments in equity instruments that are not publicly traded and whose fair values cannot be measured reliably are measured at cost less impairment. Financial assets are derecognized when (a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or (b) substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party, or (c) control of the asset has been transferred to another party which has the practical ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions. ii. Financial liabilities Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other payables and loans from fellow Group companies, are initially recognized at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognized initially at transaction price and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The Company does not hold or issue any other financial liabilities for trading purposes. j. Finance and operating leases Leases that do not transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in respect of lease incentives on leases in existence on the date of transition to FRS 102 (1 January 2014) and continues to credit such lease incentives to the profit and loss account over the period to the first review date on which the rent is adjusted to market values. The Company does not have any finance leases. k. Fixed-term deposits Fixed-term deposits are liquid investments with original maturities of over three months. l. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. m. Investment in Group undertakings Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value. Impairment testing is conducted whenever indicators of impairment are present. n. Intangible assets Computer software Acquired computer software and licences are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over three to five years, or the length of licence as appropriate. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Company are recognized as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use; • management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; 142 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued n. Intangible assets continued Computer software continued • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits; • adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available; and • the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured. Costs include the software development employee costs. The application and infrastructure development costs of product delivery websites are also capitalized where the same criteria can be met. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over three years. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. o. Tangible fixed assets All items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings and improvements 20 years Short leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant, machinery and office equipment 3–10 years The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. The principal factors that the Company takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognized within administrative expenses in the income statement. Impairment of non-financial assets Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). p. Provisions for liabilities and charges A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as a finance cost. q. Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities, arising as a result of past events, are not recognized when (i) it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources or that the amount cannot be reliably measured at the reporting date, or (ii) when the existence will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events not wholly within the Company’s control. Contingent liabilities are described in the financial statements unless the probability of an outflow of resources is remote. bsigroup.com 143 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 2. Principal accounting policies continued r. Employee benefits i. Defined benefit pension schemes The Company operates a funded defined benefit scheme in the UK, administered by independent Trustees. The scheme is closed to new entrants and closed to future accrual of pension. The Company’s net obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the scheme up to 30 April 2010 (the date the scheme closed to the accrual of benefits). That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The valuation of the Company’s net obligation is performed by an independent qualified actuary as determined by the Trustees. Pension scheme assets are measured using market values for quoted assets. The MetLife Annuity Policy asset is valued at an actuarial estimate using the assumptions shown in Note 13. The pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit actuarial method where estimated future cash flows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent duration and currency to the liability. The income statement charge is split between an operating charge and a net finance charge. The operating charge relates to administration costs of operating the scheme. The net finance charge relates to the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the scheme offset by the expected return on the assets of the scheme, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year. Actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to equity in the period in which they arise. ii. Defined contribution pension schemes The Company pays fixed contributions to an external pension provider and has no legal or constructive obligations to pay any further amounts. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due. s. Current tax Current tax is the amount of income tax payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year or prior years. Tax is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted by the period end. Management periodically evaluates the position taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes a provision where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the authorities. t. Deferred taxation Deferred tax arises from timing differences between the inclusion of income and expenses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax is recognized on all timing differences at the reporting date with some exceptions. Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are only recognized when it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profit. Deferred tax is measured using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the period end and that are expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference. u. Related party transactions The Company discloses transactions with related parties which are not wholly owned within the same group. It does not disclose transactions with members of the same group that are wholly owned. 3. Change in accounting policy In 2019, the Company adopted the triennial review amendments to FRS 102. As a result of these amendments, the freehold property owned by the Company has been reclassified from an investment property to tangible assets. Under the transitional provisions contained in FRS 102, paragraph 1.19(a), the Company has applied the transitional provision which allows an entity to take the fair value at the date of transition, being the start date of the comparative year presented in the financial statements (1 January 2018). The comparatives have been restated under the cost model. The impact on net assets at 31 December 2018 is a reduction of £0.4m from £74.7m as disclosed previously to £74.3m. 144 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 4. Critical accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below. a. Useful economic lives of tangible assets The annual depreciation charge for tangible assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of the assets. The useful economic lives and residual values are reassessed annually. They are amended when necessary to reflect current estimates, based on technological advancement, future investments, economic utilization and the physical condition of the assets. See Note 6 for the carrying amount of tangible assets and Note 2 for the useful lives applied for each asset class. b. Useful economic lives of intangible assets The useful economic lives used to amortize intangible assets relate to the expected future performance of the assets acquired and management’s estimate of the period over which the economic benefit will be derived from the asset. The estimated useful life of these intangible assets is three years. See Note 5 for the carrying amount of the intangible assets. c. Defined benefit scheme The cost of defined benefit pension schemes is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. The liabilities have been calculated by, and the assumptions have been set on the recommendations of, an independent qualified actuary. The liabilities allow for indexation of benefits in line with the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). The principal assumptions and a sensitivity analysis are detailed in Note 13. 5. Intangible assets Computer software £m Cost At 1 January 2018 19.3 Additions 4.0 Disposals (0.6) At 31 December 2018 22.7 Additions 9.8 Disposals (0.5) At 31 December 2019 32.0 Accumulated amortization and impairment At 1 January 2018 (13.1) Charge in the year (2.6) At 31 December 2018 (15.7) Charge in the year (1.9) At 31 December 2019 (17.6) Net book value at 31 December 2019 14.4 Net book value at 31 December 2018 7.0 bsigroup.com 145 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 6. Tangible assets Plant, Short machinery Freehold land leasehold Assets under and office and buildings improvements construction equipment Total £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 1 January 2018 5.6 5.8 0.1 6.2 17.7 Additions — — 0.7 — 0.7 Disposals — — — (0.6) (0.6) Reclassifications — — (0.7) 0.7 — At 31 December 2018 5.6 5.8 0.1 6.3 17.8 Additions — — 0.8 — 0.8 Disposals — — — (0.4) (0.4) Reclassifications — — (0.7) 0.7 — At 31 December 2019 5.6 5.8 0.2 6.6 18.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 — (0.9) — (3.4) (4.3) Charge in the year (0.1) (0.7) — (0.8) (1.6) Disposals — — — 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 (0.1) (1.6) — (4.1) (5.8) Charge in the year (0.1) (0.7) — (0.7) (1.5) Disposals — — — 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2019 (0.2) (2.3) — (4.6) (7.1) Net book value at 31 December 2019 5.4 3.5 0.2 2.0 11.1 Net book value at 31 December 2018 5.5 4.2 0.1 2.2 12.0 7. Investment in subsidiaries 2019 2018 £m £m Cost at 1 January 39.9 39.9 Additions 28.4 — Cost at 31 December 68.3 39.9 The addition in the year of £28.4m is an additional capital contribution to BSI Limited. The Directors consider that the fair value of investments is not less than their carrying value. A list of subsidiaries is provided in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. 146 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 8. Debtors 2019 2018 £m £m Trade debtors 0.8 2.1 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 150.7 159.6 Corporation tax receivable 2.2 1.2 Other debtors 0.4 0.5 VAT receivable 1.4 1.0 Prepayments and accrued income 6.7 6.0 Deferred taxation (Note 12) 10.3 13.5 Derivative financial instruments — 0.1 Total debtors 172.5 184.0 Amounts owed by Group undertakings include trade and finance amounts. The unsecured finance amounts of £33.3m (2018: £54.0m) have no fixed terms of repayment and are repayable on demand, but are interest bearing with the rates ranging between 1.7% and 6.0% (2018: 1.8% and 0.6%). Deferred taxation includes £5.6m (2018: £11.7m) to be recovered after more than one year. 9. Fixed-term deposits The Group has invested £15.0m of cash in a fixed-term bank deposit (2018: £15.0m), subject to a notice period of 95 days (2018: 95 days). In the parent company balance sheet this fixed-term deposit is shown within current assets. 10. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2019 2018 £m £m Trade creditors 1.6 1.4 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 162.3 137.7 Social security and other payroll taxes 0.8 0.6 Other creditors 1.0 0.9 Accruals 8.6 13.7 Deferred income 5.7 5.7 Creditors falling due within one year 180.0 160.0 Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30–60 day terms. Amounts owed to Group undertakings include trade and finance amounts. The unsecured finance amounts of £7.0m (2018: £9.9m) have no fixed terms of repayment and are repayable on demand, but are interest bearing with rates ranging between 1.7% and 5.4% (2018: 1.8% and 5.4%). 11. Provisions for liabilities Property provisions £m At 1 January 2019 0.1 Released to the profit and loss account — At 31 December 2019 0.1 The property provisions are held against dilapidations. The Company has used either the known position or a best estimate of the Company’s potential exposure to calculate the potential cost to BSI Group over the remaining lease periods. bsigroup.com 147 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 12. Deferred taxation 2019 2018 £m £m Deferred tax assets: – To be recovered after more than twelve months 6.4 12.5 – To be recovered within twelve months 4.7 1.8 Total deferred tax assets 11.1 14.3 Deferred tax liabilities: – To be incurred after more than twelve months (0.8) (0.8) Total deferred tax liabilities (0.8) (0.8) Total net deferred tax assets 10.3 13.5 The amounts of net deferred taxation assets recognized are set out below: Accelerated Other capital timing Pension allowances differences provision Total £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2019 1.3 (0.3) 12.5 13.5 Debited to profit and loss account (0.3) (0.4) — (0.7) Debited to current year reserves — — (2.5) (2.5) At 31 December 2019 1.0 (0.7) 10.0 10.3 13. Pension obligations The Company operates the following retirement benefit schemes: a. Defined contribution scheme Following the closure of the defined benefit final salary scheme to new entrants, the Company offers a group personal pension plan to all new UK employees. The costs for the year were £2.2m (2018: £1.6m). This includes salary sacrificed contributions. b. Defined benefit scheme The Company operates a defined benefit plan in the UK (the ‘Plan’) which provides benefits linked to salary on retirement or earlier date of leaving service. The Plan closed to new entrants and future accrual, as at 30 April 2010, although the link to final salary remains whilst members are still employed by the Company. The Plan operates under the regulatory framework of the Pensions Act 2004. The Trustees have the primary responsibility for governance of the Plan. The Trustees comprise representatives of the Company, an independent Trustee and members of the Plan. Benefit payments are from Trustee-administered funds and the Plan assets are held in a Trust which is governed by UK regulation. A valuation of the UK defined benefit plan was carried out under the Statutory Funding Objective as at 31 March 2019. This revealed an ongoing funding level of 83% (31 March 2016: 80%). The Group subsequently agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustees which was put in place from 1 April 2019. It requires contributions from the Group to improve the funding level of the Plan and to cover the expenses of running the Plan. The Group agreed to pay additional contributions of £66.5m over the period from 1 April 2019 to 31 August 2024. Contributions in respect of future service benefits ceased on 30 April 2010. The liabilities have been calculated by, and the assumptions have been set on the recommendations of, an independent qualified actuary as required by FRS 102. The liabilities at the disclosure date allow for indexation in line with the Consumer Prices Index. The Company paid a total of £13.5m in contributions to the fund during the year (2018: £13.5m). The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2019 2018 £m £m Present value of defined benefit obligations 436.3 410.8 Fair value of plan assets (378.9) (339.1) Net liability in the balance sheet 57.4 71.7 148 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 13. Pension obligations continued b. Defined benefit scheme continued The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year was as follows: Present Fair value value of of plan obligation assets Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 440.3 (350.3) 90.0 Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement: – Administration expenses — 0.5 0.5 – Service cost – GMP adjustment 2.5 — 2.5 – Interest expense/(income) 10.6 (8.7) 1.9 13.1 (8.2) 4.9 Re-measurements: – Loss on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense — 18.6 18.6 – Gain from change in demographic assumptions (3.8) — (3.8) – Gain from change in financial assumptions (25.0) — (25.0) – Experience losses 0.5 — 0.5 (28.3) 18.6 (9.7) Contributions: – Employers — (13.5) (13.5) Payments from plans: – Disbursements (14.3) 14.3 — (14.3) 0.8 (13.5) At 31 December 2018 410.8 (339.1) 71.7 Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement: – Administration expenses — 0.7 0.7 – Interest expense/(income) 11.5 (9.8) 1.7 11.5 (9.1) 2.4 Re-measurements: – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense — (31.0) (31.0) – Gain from change in demographic assumptions (14.3) — (14.3) – Loss from change in financial assumptions 50.5 — 50.5 – Experience gains (8.4) — (8.4) 27.8 (31.0) (3.2) Contributions: – Employers — (13.5) (13.5) Payments from plans: – Disbursements (13.8) 13.8 — (13.8) 0.3 (13.5) At 31 December 2019 436.3 (378.9) 57.4 bsigroup.com 149 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 13. Pension obligations continued b. Defined benefit scheme continued The major assumptions used for the updated actuarial valuation were: 2019 2018 % p.a. % p.a. Rate of general increase in salaries 4.05 4.30 Rate of revaluation in deferment 2.05 2.30 Pension increase rate: – RPI (min. 3%, max. 5%) 3.50 3.60 – CPI (min. 3%, max. 5%) 3.20 3.30 Discount rate 2.00 2.85 Inflation assumption – RPI 3.05 3.30 Inflation assumption – CPI 2.05 2.30 Life expectancy at age 65 for a member currently aged 45 is 23.3 (2018: 24.6) years (men) or 25.7 (2018: 26.2) years (women). Life expectancy for a member currently aged 65 is 22.0 (2018: 23.2) years (men) or 24.3 (2018: 24.6) years (women). Plan assets are comprised as follows: Value at 31 December 2019 Value at 31 December 2018 £m £m Schroders Diversified Growth Fund 117.8 31% 90.4 27% Standard Life Global Absolute Return Strategies Fund 70.2 19% 64.5 19% M&G Credit Fund 20.3 5% 20.0 6% Schroders Liability-Driven Investments 52.2 14% 38.3 11% Schroders Corporate Bond Fund — — 10.4 3% Alcentra Credit Fund 19.8 5% 20.8 6% Cash 13.6 4% 5.3 2% MetLife Annuity Policy 85.0 22% 89.4 26% Total fair value of assets 378.9 100% 339.1 100% Expected contributions to retirement benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2020 are £27.1m (2019: £13.5m). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is sixteen years (2018: sixteen years). Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the net defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Increase/(decrease) in present value of deficit at 31 December 2019 Increase in Decrease in assumption assumption Change in assumption £m £m Discount rate 0.25% p.a. (14.4) 16.2 Inflation rate* 0.25% p.a. 3.5 (3.1) Salary escalation 0.25% 0.5 Life expectancy Approximately 1 year 12.4 * This sensitivity allows for the impact on all inflation related assumptions (salary increases, deferred revaluation and pension increases, subject to relevant caps and floors). 150 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 14. Financial assets Loans and receivables At 31 December 2019 £m Assets as per balance sheet Debtors excluding prepayments and accrued income and deferred taxation 155.5 Derivative financial instruments — Fixed-term deposits 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents 39.3 Total 209.8 Other financial liabilities at amortized cost At 31 December 2019 £m Liabilities as per balance sheet Creditors excluding non-financial liabilities 174.3 Total 174.3 Cash flow hedges at Loans and fair value receivables At 31 December 2018 £m £m Assets as per balance sheet Debtors excluding prepayments and accrued income and deferred taxation — 164.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 — Fixed-term deposits — 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents — 48.2 Total 0.1 227.7 Other financial liabilities at amortized cost At 31 December 2018 £m Liabilities as per balance sheet Creditors excluding non-financial liabilities 154.3 Total 154.3 Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into forward foreign currency contracts to mitigate the exchange rate risk for certain foreign currency transactions. At 31 December 2019 the outstanding contracts all mature within twelve months (2018: twelve months) of the year end. The Company is committed to buy CHF 2.4m (2018: CHF 1.9m) for a fixed Sterling amount. The forward currency contracts are measured at fair value, which is determined using valuation techniques that utilize observable inputs. The key assumptions used in valuing the derivatives are the forward exchange rates for GBP:CHF. The Company has no interest rate derivative instruments (2018: none). bsigroup.com 151 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2019 15. Employees 2019 2018 £m £m Wages and salaries 22.1 17.8 Social security costs 2.8 2.2 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (credit)/expense (0.7) 0.5 Other pension costs 2.2 1.6 Defined benefit plan – Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) adjustment — 2.5 Total employee benefit expense 26.4 24.6 The average number of full-time equivalent individuals (including Board members) employed by the Company during the year was: 2019 2018 Number Number Production, inspection and laboratory 25 20 Sales and distribution 45 39 Administration 240 189 Total headcount 310 248 Disclosures in respect of Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 66 to 75. 16. Auditors’ remuneration The amount of remuneration receivable by the Company’s auditors in respect of the audit of the parent company financial statements is £0.2m (2018: £0.2m). 17. Capital commitments 2019 2018 £m £m Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but not provided for in the financial statements 0.1 2.0 18. Financial commitments At 31 December 2019, annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2019 2018 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total £m £m £m £m £m £m No later than 1 year 2.1 0.1 2.2 1.8 0.1 1.9 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 8.8 0.2 9.0 7.2 0.2 7.4 Later than 5 years 1.7 — 1.7 3.3 — 3.3 Minimum lease payments 12.6 0.3 12.9 12.3 0.3 12.6 Other leases relate to the lease of motor vehicles. The profit and loss account lease rental charge will not equate to lease payments for those leases having the benefit of lease incentives. In these cases the incentives are released to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease. As at 31 December 2019, the Company held foreign exchange contracts to the value of £1.9m (2018: £23.1m), all expiring within one year. The mark-to-market value of these contracts was £nil (2018: £0.1m). 152 The British Standards Institution Annual report and financial statements 2019 19. Related party transactions Transactions with related parties have been determined in accordance with FRS 102 and are disclosed below: a. Pension scheme Trustees Transactions with the pension scheme Trustees are disclosed in Note 13. b. Key management The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12(e) from disclosing key management personnel compensation in total. c. Transactions with non-wholly owned subsidiaries There were no material transactions with non-wholly owned subsidiaries during the year. All transactions between the Company and non-wholly owned Group companies arise in the ordinary course of business and are on an arm’s length basis. 20. Contingent liabilities In the normal course of its business the Company faces legal actions and claims. Based on legal advice and taking into account the availability of insurance and provisions, the Board does not expect these legal actions or claims to have a significant impact upon the Company. In the normal course of its business, the Company from time to time provides advance payment guarantees, performance bonds and other bonds in connection with its activities. Taking into account experience to date and the availability of provisions, the Board does not expect these bonds and guarantees to have a significant impact on the Company. The Company has historically occupied leasehold properties which it has subsequently assigned or sub-leased and there is a contingent risk that if in certain circumstances the assignees or sub-lessees default, certain liabilities under the lease may revert to the Company. The number of incidents when such leases are believed to survive is small and in light of experience to date and the availability of provisions, the Board does not expect these leases to have a significant impact on the Company. In this report the ‘Company’ refers to The British Standards Institution, a Royal Charter Company, Companies House number ZC000202, which is the parent company for the financial statements. Paper statement to be approved by the printer BSI’s commitment to environmental stewardship is reflected in this Annual Report, which has been printed on 100% post-consumer recycled, FSC certified, and Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) paper. Printed in the UK using vegetable-based inks, both the mill and the printer are certified to ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and ISO 9001 (Quality Management System). Please remove cover before recycling. bsigroup.com 153 The British Standards Institution 389 Chiswick High Road London W4 4AL United Kingdom
