Environmental, Social and Governance Review Sustainability Report 54 yy About this Report 54 yy Managing Sustainability 57 –– Our Sustainability Framework 57 –– Supporting the SDGs 58 –– Sustainability Governance 58 –– Memberships and Associations 58 yy Our Material ESG Issues 59 Enabling a Low-carbon and Circular Economy 59 –– Climate Change –– Resource Management –– Local Environmental Protection Empowering Our People and Communities 68 –– Health and Safety –– People –– Community Embedding Responsible Business Practices 76 –– Corporate Governance –– Ethical Business and Compliance –– Risk Management Corporate Governance Statement 83 Investor Relations 102 Environmental, Social and Governance Review About this Report Reporting Framework Reporting Scope Assurance 2019 Highlights Our Sustainability Report has been • Our report provides information on Our key sustainability data is prepared in accordance with the Global Sembcorp as well as its subsidiaries independently assured by Generated Generated over Avoided over Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. It is guided by the Singapore and covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. S$899 million 4.5 million MWh 3.9 million tonnes Exchange Sustainability Reporting Guide Changes in reported data could occur of revenue from the Renewables of renewable electricity in 2019, of carbon dioxide equivalent as well as the Ten Principles of the • It excludes operations, joint ventures, arising from areas such as changes in and Environment business equivalent to powering over emissions with energy generated United Nations (UN) Global Compact. partnerships and associates where material sustainability issues, boundaries one million households1 in Singapore by our renewable assets Our climate-related disclosures are Sembcorp does not have management or information, including the design, guided by the recommendations of the and / or operational control, with definitions and use of disclosures in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial the exception of greenhouse gas report. Upon such occurrences, current Disclosures (TCFD) as well as CDP’s (GHG) emissions data. In line with disclosures are presented alongside the (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) the methodology used for the appropriate restated comparative or Climate Change programme. Our previous development of our carbon emission historic data. Reclaimed around Provided over Achieved report was published in March 2019. targets, we report our GHG emissions There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in and GHG emissions intensity using an equity share approach For the Independent Limited Assurance Report, please refer to 74 million m3 39,000 people 74 % the list of material sustainability issues Our Performance: 2019 Performance of wastewater for industrial use. with access to potable water for recycling rate for fly ash produced and boundaries. • Our Marine business, Sembcorp Data and Commentary report in the This was a higher than usual their daily needs through our by our coal-fired power plants Marine, is separately listed and Sustainability section of our website. volume, driven by stronger community investment programme, in India Materiality reports its activities in a separate customer demand the Sembcorp Water Initiative Material sustainability issues have been Sustainability Report identified in line with the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting. In our 2016 • New acquisitions and subsidiaries materiality assessment, stakeholders are given one year upon the were identified in accordance with the completion of construction or Converted over Planted over Contributed over 360,000 800,000 8,500 AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement agreement to integrate their reporting Standard. Our material sustainability systems with that of the Group. tonnes trees issues are reviewed and endorsed by our Thereafter, their sustainability data Sustainability Steering Committee and will be reported externally once a of waste into energy in Singapore to help absorb air pollutants from volunteer hours the environment in local communities the board annually. full calendar year of data is collected For more information on our • Data on health and safety as well as approach to stakeholder engagement community investments from our and materiality, please visit Our Energy assets under construction Approach page in the Sustainability is included section of our website. • Data pertaining to entities divested Participation in sustainability ratings during the year is excluded from our report • CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) • Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index • Energy Intelligence’s Top 100 Green Utilities Report • FTSE4Good Index Series2 • MSCI ESG Ratings3 • Sustainalytics 1 Based on the average energy consumption of a four-room public housing unit in Singapore. Source: Energy Market Authority, Singapore, 2017 FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms that Sembcorp Industries has been independently assessed Sustainability Contact 2 according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance We welcome feedback on our practices. The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products sustainability issues and reporting 3 The use by Sembcorp Industries of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (MSCI) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names at sustainability@sembcorp.com. herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Sembcorp Industries by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI 54 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 55 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Environmental, Social and Governance Review About this Report Managing Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Sembcorp has long held a strong commitment to sustainability. We believe that 2019 2018 2017 responsible corporates can play a role as agents of transformation for a sustainable future. We see sustainability in our company as inextricably linked to our ability to deliver Environmental long-term value and growth to our stakeholders. Climate Change Direct GHG emissions1 (Scope 1) (million tCO2e) 26.0 23.6 22.2 GHG emissions intensity1 (tCO2e/MWh) 0.54 0.55 0.54 Our Sustainability Framework Renewable energy generation capacity (MW) 2,601 2,569r 2,181r Sustainability is one of the key pillars of our business strategy that underpins our value creation process. Resource Management As a Group, we want to enable a low-carbon and circular economy, empower our people and Water withdrawal2 (million m3) 1,971.3 1,856.2 1,856.4 communities, and embed responsible business practices throughout our organisation. Net water consumption3 (million m3) 46.1 54.3 49.3 These ambitions in turn support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Water discharge2 (million m3) 1,925.3 1,801.9 1,807.1 Waste generated4 (thousand tonnes) 1,894.3 1,713.3 1,452.7e Climate Change Health and Safety Hazardous waste 51.3 39.9 10.0 Reducing our GHG emissions intensity and Making health and safety an integral part Non-hazardous waste 1,843.0 1,673.4 1,442.7 moving towards a balanced portfolio of our everyday business and culture of low-carbon energy assets Local Environmental Protection People Significant spills5 0 0 0 Resource Management Creating a values-based Growing and innovating our and performance-led culture. Social business solutions to support Providing an engaging Health and Safety6 a circular economy while employment experience Number of fatalities7 2 1 3 ensuring more efficient where our people ENABLING A EMPOWERING Lost time injury rate8 (number per million man-hours) 1.1 0.5 1.1 operations to avoid or LOW-CARBON OUR PEOPLE can grow and excel Accident severity rate9 (number per million man-hours) 473.1 137.0r 263.4r minimise the unnecessary AND CIRCULAR AND use of resources ECONOMY COMMUNITIES Community People Contributing to the Employee turnover10 (%) 12.1 11.6 10.1 Local Environmental sustainable development Training hours11 (average hours per employee) 29.4 25.2 23.8 Protection of our communities Community Minimising negative EMBEDDING through engagement, Community contributions (S$ million) 1.4 1.1 5.5 environmental impacts RESPONSIBLE partnerships and and ensuring the BUSINESS PRACTICES investing in initiatives 3 Net water consumption is defined as water 9 The accident severity rate is defined as the highest standards of that make a lasting Commentary on the data and consumed by our own sites and administrative number of lost work days per million man-hours environmental management positive impact other performance data, is available in offices worked. We record lost time due to one fatality this report, as well as in the as 6,000 lost work days, in line with guidelines 4 Data for waste generated excludes waste that is by the US National Institute for Occupational Corporate Governance Risk Management Sustainability section of our website. collected and incinerated for our customers Safety and Health Maintaining an effective governance Ensuring effective identification 5 A significant spill refers to an accidental release of a hazardous substance which results in severe 10 Data covers both voluntary and involuntary and decision-making structure of material risks and putting in place an Notes: Please refer to the Reporting and / or persistent environmental damage, and turnover of permanent employees adequate and effective risk management Scope section on page 54 for details on is classified as having major or massive impact Data covers permanent and contract employees Ethical Business and Compliance 11 and internal control system our reporting coverage. in our Group HSSE Hazard Identification and r Indicates restated figure. Adjustments were Fostering an ethical culture and conducting our Risk Management Standard. Significant spills are Emissions data covers entities that produce GHGs made to 2017 and 2018 renewable energy business with integrity, and ensuring we comply with 1 reported upon occurrence of the incident generation capacity figures for conversion of from the combustion of fossil fuels consumed by 6 Health and safety data covers both assets in capacity in Singapore from MWp to MW. all legal and regulatory requirements our Energy business’ assets. It excludes emissions operation and under construction Accident severity rate was revised to include from our anaerobic wastewater treatment plants, fatalities chemical waste and maintenance and servicing 7 Data covers employees and contractors as well as members of the public. Details of fatalities are e Indicates data based on management’s best Driven by Our Purpose Underpinned by Our Values equipment. Emission factors used are from the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas reported on page 70 estimates; we have since refined the accuracy and consistency of the data Our purpose and passion is to Inventories for 2006. Only CO2, CH4 and N2O 8 The lost time injury rate is defined as the number emissions are included in the calculation of direct of fatalities and lost work day cases per million do good and play our part in GHG emissions. Global warming potential factors man-hours worked. It includes high-consequence creating a sustainable future. used are from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. work-related injuries, which refer to injuries that We deliver energy and innovative A 100-year time horizon is applied result in permanent disability and / or injuries that require long term follow up such as solutions that support development Creative Insight Committed Connected 2 Water withdrawal includes all water we extract from the sea, surface, ground or third party physiotherapy treatment and where the and create value – for our We innovate and solve We walk the talk, We value our people, sources such as wastewater from customers or individual is not expected to recover fully to stakeholders and communities. complex problems do the right thing and forge strong partnerships treated water from water utilities. The calculation pre-injury health status within six months deliver on our promises and care for our methodology for water withdrawal and discharge was updated to align to the GRI 303: communities and Water and Effluents 2018 Standard the environment 56 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 57 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Environmental, Social and Governance Review Managing Sustainability Our Material ESG Issues Supporting the SDGs Sustainability Governance Enabling a Low-carbon and Circular Economy The SDGs and their accompanying Sembcorp’s board of directors oversees Board Statement targets were ratified by 193 states at the business affairs of the Group. The Sembcorp’s board of directors is Climate Resource Local Environmental the UN Summit in September 2015. main duties of the board include providing collectively responsible for the Change Management Protection The scale and ambition of the SDGs leadership on Sembcorp’s overall strategy long-term success of the company. Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities mean they cannot be achieved by which takes into consideration our The board considers sustainability Reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) Growing and innovating our business Minimising negative environmental governments alone, and require the material sustainability issues. Sembcorp issues as part of its strategy emissions intensity and moving solutions to support a circular economy impacts and ensuring the highest collective effort of businesses, also has a Sustainability Steering formulation. It has determined towards a balanced portfolio of while ensuring more efficient standards of environmental organisations and all levels of society. Committee that provides strategic Sembcorp’s material ESG factors, low-carbon energy assets operations to avoid or minimise the management Sembcorp believes in playing its part direction for managing sustainabilityand exercises oversight in the unnecessary use of resources to help meet these goals. We have related risks and opportunities. The management and monitoring of identified SDG 6 and 7 as priority committee is chaired by our group chief our material ESG factors. Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs SDGs to focus on. These encapsulate financial officer, and comprises senior areas that our businesses have executives who are accountable for the significant impact on and can make the management of Sembcorp’s material organisation. With this, the performance greatest contributions to sustainable sustainability issues. incentives of our senior executives How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 development by 2030. specifically take into account ESG To ensure sustainability is embedded performance and the achievement of Our renewables capacity in 2019 We reclaimed around 74 million m 3 We registered zero significant spill Goal 6: Clean Water into the business, environmental, social set targets. was 2,600MW of water incidents in 2019 and Sanitation and governance (ESG) components are included in the performance scorecard For more information on our Our GHG emissions intensity was We paid significant fines totalling Our suite of water solutions of our leadership team, who are sustainability-related policies, please visit slightly lower than in 2018. We are S$10.5 million in 2019. Details of for industrial customers helps to responsible for cascading action for the Reports & Policies page in the committed to meeting our targets fines and sanctions can be found on reduce the use of freshwater and these components throughout the Sustainability section of our website. by 2022 page 78 of this report potable water > Pages 59 – 61 > Pages 61 – 66 > Pages 66 – 67 Target: We aim to grow our water BOARD OF DIRECTORS reclamation volume to 63 million m3 Risk Committee by 2022 Climate Change climate change matters to Sembcorp Utilities ranking by Energy Intelligence, Sustainability Steering Committee Why this is material and how we are addressing climateand were placed 60th in the list. Climate change poses an enormous related risks and opportunities. Goal 7: Affordable and Enabling a Low-carbon Empowering Our People Embedding Responsible and Circular Economy and Communities Business Practices threat to the safety and well-being Managing Our Emissions Clean Energy of entire populations as well as the Our climate-related disclosures are Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) are from Environmental Social Governance As an integrated energy player, material issues material issues material issues global economy. In particular, as an guided by the recommendations sources owned or controlled by the we aim to help advance the energy producer, our energy generation of the Task Force on Climate-related company. Our GHG emissions data is • Climate Change • Health and Safety • Corporate global energy transition. We are Governance activities release GHG emissions that Financial Disclosures (TCFD). TCFD is reported using an equity share approach. Climate Change • People committed to increasing our share Working Committee • Ethical Business and contribute to climate change. In addition, a market-driven initiative, which Our Scope 1 GHG emissions and GHG • Community of renewable assets, while Compliance climate change also poses potential articulates a set of voluntary climateemissions intensity was 26 million tonnes • Resource managing existing thermal assets Management • Risk Management regulatory, technological, physical and related financial risk disclosures for of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) and 0.54 to operate at optimal efficiency • Local Environmental reputational risks to our business. use by companies. tonnes of CO2 equivalent per megawatt Protection However, we recognise that in spite of hour (tCO2e/MWh), respectively. The Target: We aim to grow our these challenges, we are also uniquely Our TCFD disclosure is available increase in absolute emissions was due renewable energy capacity to positioned to leverage opportunities in the Our Focus Areas: Environment to the inclusion of data from our 4,000MW by 2022 that have arisen from actions in page in the Sustainability section of gas-fired power plants in Bangladesh Memberships and Associations response to climate change. our website. and Myanmar, our small-scale power For more information on our generation assets in the United Kingdom support of the SDGs, please visit For more information on our Performance (UK), as well as an increase in electricity Our Approach page in the Sustainability Climate Change Strategy, please visit Progress on Our Renewables Growth generation at our Indian thermal power section of our website. the Reports & Policies page in the Our total renewables capacity accounts for plants. The slight decrease in our overall Sustainability section of our website. over 20% of our total energy capacity. GHG emissions intensity was due to Signatory to the Supporter of the Member of the founding higher renewable energy generation United Nations Global Financial Stability Board’s consortium of the GRI Our approach We improved our CDP Climate Change and gas-fired electricity production. Compact Task Force on ASEAN Regional Hub In 2018, we launched our Climate Change score from C to Bin 2019. We were We remain committed to meeting our Climate-related which opened in Strategy, which outlines megatrends in the only Singaporean company to 2022 GHG emissions intensity target of Financial Disclosures Singapore in 2019 the global energy transition, why feature in the global Top 100 Green 0.42 tCO2e/MWh. 58 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 59 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues We have identified three key areas Supporting Singapore’s Solar Ambition Indirect GHG Emissions1 (Scope 2) 1 Indirect GHG emissions include location-based under resource management: (thousand tCO2e) data for all Energy business’ assets. In Singapore our operations purchase energy from our own assets; to avoid double counting, the emissions • Energy management 400 resulting from these have been accounted for under Scope 1 GHG emissions. CO2, CH4 and N2O • Water and wastewater management emissions are included in the calculation of indirect • Waste management GHG emissions, except for India where their grid 300 303.12 emission factor only takes into account CO2. Emission factors are taken from the International In each area, we seek to optimise 252.7 r Energy Agency, Ministry of Energy of Chile,  resource use for our customers and in Central Electricity Authority of India, and the UK our own operations. Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs. 200 Emissions relating to heating have been excluded. We are in the process of setting the base year for Our approach Scope 2 emissions to compare our performance Energy Management 141.6 r over time The challenge for the energy sector is to 100 2 Includes data from the import of steam, our municipal water businesses in Southeast Asia, o  ur meet growing energy needs, with fewer administrative offices in key markets, as well as our emissions. While we are taking steps to Urban business green our portfolio, this process takes r Indicates restated figure. The reason for the time. In the meantime, we are optimising 0 restatement is provided in our 2019 Performance 2017 2018 2019 Data and Commentary report in the Sustainability the efficiency of our power assets. section of our website The Sembcorp Global Asset Management Sembcorp Solar staff inspecting our rooftop solar panels System enables process optimisation, Sembcorp is greening its portfolio and helping to drive the adoption of renewables by partnering industry leaders to lead troubleshooting and predictive analytics, the charge together. This is in line with our strategy to enable a low-carbon future and support Singapore’s target to Resource Management the unnecessary use of resources and consolidates real-time operational produce enough solar energy to power about 350,000 homes annually by 2030. In 2019, we expanded our solar business Why this is material while pursuing innovations that data from our global assets. The system in Singapore, securing an additional 63MWp of solar capacity. This brings our total solar capacity in operation and under Global population growth coupled with support a circular economy. As an shortens the lead time required to development in Singapore to 180MWp. rapid urbanisation and industrialisation integrated energy and urban player, identify and resolve complex issues, have led to an unprecedented demand Sembcorp is uniquely positioned to help leverages digital solutions to improve for critical resources. This has others on the journey towards cost-effectiveness and enables best We report emissions from the combustion to approximately 446 thousand tCO2e GHG emissions from the majority of underscored the need for us to reduce sustainable development. practice sharing across the Group. of biomass separately, in accordance the year before. our plants. Our Scope 2 emissions with the Global Reporting Initiative amounted to over 303 thousand tonnes (GRI) Standards. Our global biogenic Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) are or 0.3 million tCO2e. The increase in our emissions amounted to approximately from purchased electricity, steam, Scope 2 emissions is largely due to the 531 thousand tCO2e in 2019, compared heating and cooling. We report Scope 2 expansion in our reporting scope. Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) and GHG Emissions Intensity are generated as a result of the Direct GHG 1 GHG Emissions 1 Emissions data covers entities that produce company’s activities but are not derived Emissions Intensity GHGs from the combustion of fossil fuels from sources controlled or owned by (million tCO2e) (tCO2e/MWh) consumed in our Energy business’ assets. It excludes emissions from our anaerobic Sembcorp. We began measuring wastewater treatment plants, chemical waste Scope 3 GHG emissions in 2019, 36 0.6 and maintenance and servicing equipment. starting with the emissions from the use 0.54 0.55 0.542 Emission factors used are from the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas of natural gas sold to our customers. Inventories for 2006. Only CO2, CH4 and N2O Our Scope 3 emissions amounted to 26.02 emissions are included in the calculation of 24 22.2 23.6 0.4 3.8 million tCO2e1. direct GHG emissions. Global warming potential factors used are from the IPCC Fifth 1 Emissions are calculated using the Assessment Report. A 100-year time horizon Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is applied. Base year is set to 2017 to (IPCC) Guidelines for National Greenhouse 12 0.2 compare our Scope 1 GHG emissions Gas Inventories for 2006 emission factors. intensity over time. Our base year reflects the Data is calculated on the assumption that all year we developed our Climate Change gas sold is combusted Strategy and correspondingly set our GHG emissions intensity targets 0 0.0 2 Includes data from our Urban business In 2019, Sembcorp planted 19 species of flora around our thermal operations in India with a total of over 130,000 saplings across some 180 acres. To date, 2017 2018 2019 we have contributed a total of 32 flora species and over 800,000 saplings across nearly 750 acres, which is equivalent to approximately 416 football fields. This has helped to create a “green belt” to restore land degradation while absorbing air pollutants from the atmosphere 60 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 61 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Innovative Technology as a Key Differentiator for Sembcorp Supporting the UK’s Transition to Renewables Innovative and practical technologies are key In August 2019, over one million people in the UK were left differentiators for our business. For example, without electricity for up to 45 minutes, after a lightning strike Sembcorp Solar employs the use of an online caused two large generators that power the national grid to trip monitoring system that tracks the performance which led to a plunge in grid frequency. Within minutes of the of its solar assets across Southeast Asia. blackout, Sembcorp Energy UK’s fleet of rapid response gas-fired The system enables the identification and power plants swung into action to make over 600MW of electricity measurement of real-time performance indicators available, which supported the restoration of power to the grid. to ensure that its assets are operating optimally. Sembcorp Solar customers can also access an online We operate the UK’s largest distributed energy portfolio that application, which provides them with a visual comprises 813MW of small-scale, fast-ramping power generation representation of the performance of their rooftop assets and rapid response batteries in operation and under solar panel installations. construction. In 2019, the first 60MW of our battery energy storage system commenced operations in the UK. These are used by the Sembcorp Solar’s online national grid electricity system operator to dynamically manage the monitoring system system in real-time. Our batteries function like the cruise control in a car, automatically increasing or decreasing their output to ensure In India, we introduced our Virtual Brain platform, that the system frequency remains consistently within safe limits, an analytics-based digital asset management thus reducing the risk of a power cut. platform that enables the business to monitor data remotely. It provides information from our With the growth of renewables in the UK’s energy mix, flexible renewable energy sites across seven states, rapid response gas engines and battery energy storage systems will supporting our operations with performance play increasingly important roles to help address the intermittency monitoring, forecasting, real-time condition of renewables by bridging supply gaps and ensuring the reliability monitoring and anomaly detection. of power supply. Sembcorp Energy UK’s flexible gas-fired generation plants (top) and battery energy storage system (above) Virtual Brain platform for wind assets in India In water-stressed regions such as wastewater treatment operations. Oman and the United Arab Emirates, Methodologies include anaerobic sludge Energy Consumption by Fuel Type (%) Energy efficiency parameters are As a water solutions provider, Sembcorp Power plants use large amounts of our large-scale integrated power and digestion which involves a series of embedded in our plant operation uses water for a number of purposes. water for cooling purposes. Almost 99% desalination plants use multi-stage flash biological processes that breaks down 51.6 41.7 management systems and monitored In addition to consuming water in our of the water we withdraw for such distillation and reverse osmosis to sludge and reduces sludge volume, daily. Monthly technical forum own operations, we also supply water purposes is seawater, which minimises the provide high-quality water to meet while also generating biogas which is discussions are conducted by our and associated water services to our need for freshwater and groundwater. municipal and industrial needs. channelled towards the production of operations teams to facilitate customers. We withdraw water from In some of our power plants, we employ steam and electricity. In addition, Total knowledge sharing of best practices on a variety of sources including the sea, closed loop cooling water systems to Waste Management non-hazardous sludge is converted into 324 PJ operational and efficiency issues. water bodies on the surface such as further minimise the need for seawater. Tackling the challenge of waste useful products such as bricks or plant rivers and lakes, ground and third party management requires a circular economy fertiliser where possible. In addition to managing our own sources such as wastewater from our Our specialised water solutions for approach, including reduction in waste assets, Sembcorp seeks to empower customers or treated water from water industries enable us to treat multiple generation and exploring opportunities Performance 1.4 3.3 customers to achieve their own utilities. We are committed to ensuring streams of industrial wastewater directly to reuse resources. Energy Management sustainability targets, through the that any effluent is treated in line with from source, without the need for We consumed 324 petajoules (PJ) of 2.0 application of technology and regulatory discharge standards. pre-treatment on the part of our For example, Sembcorp operates energyenergy in 2019. We set internal targets ■ Coal ■ Natural gas integrated solutions. customers. This helps customers to from-waste plants in Singapore and the for our plants to improve operational ■ Self-generated (renewables) Where required, environmental impact focus on their core business, and allows UK, where waste is used as feedstock performance and efficiency. ■ Others1 ■ Biomass Water and Wastewater Management assessments are conducted in accordance us to leverage different wastewater for power generation. In Singapore, 1 Others includes diesel, petrol, fuel oil, chemical waste, solid waste as well as Water is a precious resource. Our aim is with national and / or international influent profiles to further optimise this waste is collected by our solid waste This year, our global energy and water imported electricity and steam to ensure that all our interactions with, standards and methodologies, to the wastewater treatment process. management business. In addition, facilities undertook a total of 22 energy and the usage of, water resources are understand the effect our activities have In some cases, a proportion of treated the majority of fly ash generated as a optimisation projects that resulted in responsibly managed. We are committed on the local environment, including water is channelled for reclamation by-product in our coal-fired power plants the reduction of nearly 29,000MWh to integrating environmental protection water bodies. Recommendations from and re-supplied to customers for their in India is recycled into cement and bricks. of electricity1. and stewardship into our operations to these assessments are then incorporated industrial processes – thus forming a 1 Based on projected annualised energy savings help mitigate environmental risks and into the design, construction and closed loop which minimises liquid We actively seek to reduce the volume support water conservation. operation of new plants. discharge and helps to conserve water. of sludge generated in our industrial 62 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 63 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Water and Wastewater Management The infographics that follow provide a • Water discharge: includes all water Water Flow of Our Water Assets1 We revised our disclosures for water to summary of our water interactions that is discharged from our operations begin aligning with the new GRI 303: across our Energy businesses and to various destinations including the Water and Effluents 2018 Standard. markets. In adopting the GRI Standards, sea, surface and third parties such we have defined the terms as follows: as customers For the GRI-compliant disclosure, 1,198.5 1,173.9 please refer to Our Performance: 2019 • Water withdrawal: includes all • Water consumption: comprises the million m 3 million m 3 Performance Data and Commentary water we extract from the sea, surface, water we use in our own operations Withdrawal Discharge report in the Sustainability section of ground or third party sources such and administrative buildings. It our website. as wastewater from our customers excludes water that we withdraw or treated water from water utilities and treat for supply to customers Water Flow of Our Energy Generation Assets1 We consumed 2.0% of the water Withdrawal Discharge 828.2 we withdrew 697.5 million m3 million m3 772.9 751.4 Sea Sea million m 3 million m 3 129.6 72.6 32.5 443.9 million m3 million m3 million m3 million m3 Surface Ground Surface Third party2 Sea Sea (customers) 97.7 764.6 524.2 million m3 Third party Treatment million m3 million m3 (water utilities) and Reclamation We consumed 70.4 million m3 Surface 2.8% of the water Surface Third party (wastewater) 2.4 we withdrew 0.6 million m3 million m3 Ground Third party2 Desalination Potable Water Wastewater Reclamation (cooling water Treatment Treatment 2.0 for customers) million m3 226.6 million m3 1 Excludes data from our gas import and retail business, solid waste management business in Singapore as well as our administrative offices 2 Third party refers to the provision of treated and reclaimed water to municipal, industrial and other customers Third party (water utilities) Our water assets withdrew over 1,198 million m3 of water in 2019: We reclaimed around 74 million m3 of water in 2019, driven by stronger 3.9 • 69.1% was seawater and was used • 5.9% was wastewater from customer demand. million m3 to produce desalinated water our customers. Out of the total volume of wastewater we treated, In 2019, we undertook a water 1 Excludes data from our gas import and retail business, solid waste management business in Singapore, as well as our administrative offices • 10.8% was surface water, the we reclaimed approximately optimisation project that led to improved 2 Refers to cooling water we supply to customers majority of which was used to produce 16% which was supplied efficiency and a projected annualised water for municipal customers to customers reduction of 35,000m3 of water used. Our energy generation assets withdrew nearly 773 million m3 of water in 2019: • 8.1% was water from water utilities, • 6.1% was groundwater, We also provided access to drinking • 98.9% was seawater that was used • 0.3% was groundwater that was • 0.5% came from water utilities and of which more than half was treated 100% of which was treated and water to over 39,000 people in India for plant cooling purposes used for cooling purposes. Moving was used for our operations wastewater that we reclaimed supplied to municipal customers and Myanmar through our community forward we are developing new water and supplied to customers investment projects. • 0.3% was surface water that was intake infrastructure to withdraw used for plant cooling purposes surface water instead of groundwater 64 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 65 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Helping to Make Recycling in Singapore ‘ezi’ Waste Generated1,2 (thousand tonnes) Technology-enabled, Real-time Monitoring Since 2018, Sembcorp deployed the Virtual Brain (VB) platform for 2,000 water, which allows real-time, round-the-clock automated monitoring 1,894.3 of our 26 water and wastewater facilities globally. VB is a control 1,713.3 system which collects and monitors thousands of data points, 1,500 1,452.7e including the influent and effluent of the plant. Using custom built algorithms, it detects problems before they occur and recommends solutions to the operator. VB also features an enhanced alert management system, notifying users of issues and creating an 1,000 1,843.0 auditable trail of the responses to any issues detected. This facilitates 1,673.4 a more dynamic and timely response to issues with the process, 1,442.7 ensuring water discharge that consistently meets regulatory Dr Amy Khor, Senior Minister of State, MEWR (centre) with Mr Neil McGregor, Group President and CEO of Sembcorp Industries, and other dignitaries at the official launch of the ‘ezi ’ app in standards. The innovation won the Operating Model Master Award 500 Members of the Sembcorp Virtual Brain platform for water team November 2019 receiving the 2019 Operating Model Master Award for Singapore at the IDC Digital Transformation Awards in October 2019. at the IDC Digital Transformation Awards ceremony In November 2019, Sembcorp launched the ‘ezi ’ recycling mobile application. The initiative aimed to improve recycling in Singapore and was part of a 0 10.0 39.9 51.3 public health, as well as threaten the include environmental and social impact In 2019, we registered zero significant spill nationwide push towards reducing waste. A recent survey conducted by the 2017 2018 2019 long-term viability of our business. assessments, environmental baseline incidents1 across our global operations. Ministry of Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) highlighted the need to ■ Non-hazardous waste studies as well as pollution control studies. We paid significant fines totalling better educate residents on the different types of recyclable items and the need ■ Hazardous waste Our approach Recommendations based on study findings S$10.5 million in 2019, mainly in relation to make recycling more convenient. 1 The data excludes waste that is collected Environmental protection and stewardship then inform our management of HSSE to the discharge of off-specification and incinerated for our customers To help address these gaps, the ‘ezi ’ mobile app adopted a two-pronged are integrated into our operations, risks, and are incorporated into the design, wastewater that took place prior to 2 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste approach to recycling. Using the app, residents could arrange for their materials are defined by the relevant guided by our Group Health, Safety, construction and operation of new plants. early 2017. Details of the fines can be recyclables to be collected at their doorstep, in exchange for a cash incentive. country regulations in each market Security and Environment (HSSE) found on page 78 of this report. The app also included an interactive educational module on recycling. e Indicates data based on management’s management system comprising: Our Group HSSE Incident Reporting 1 A significant spill refers to an accidental release best estimates and Investigation Requirements set out of a hazardous substance which results in severe The pilot programme was rolled out to selected households in the Woodlands • Group HSSE Policy systematic steps and actions in response and / or persistent environmental damage, and is zone in the north of Singapore. As of end 2019, the app was downloaded • Group HSSE rules, standards to HSSE incidents and near misses, with classified as having major or massive impact in our Group HSSE Hazard Identification and Risk nearly 7,500 times and had helped to facilitate the collection of over 10,000 Waste Management and procedures the aim of preventing a recurrence. Our Management Standard. Significant spills are kilogrammes of recyclable waste. In 2019, total waste generated increased • All applicable environmental regulations Integrated Assurance Framework (IAF) sets reported upon occurrence of the incident due to more fly ash produced as a result out the three lines of defence that ensure of higher energy output by our thermal Our Group HSSE standards, such as the compliance to our operating standards. Atmospheric Emissions1, 2 power plants in India. About 74%, or environmental protection and hazardous (thousand tonnes) Disposal Method for Disposal Method for Non-hazardous Waste1,2 (%) Hazardous Waste1 (%) approximately 1.1 million tonnes, of substances handling standards, set out For more information on our IAF, 2019 fly ash was recycled. To further improve the principles and requirements which please visit Our Focus Areas: Governance 59.6 33.9 55.8 43.5 recycling rates, we aim to install a fly support the Precautionary Principle in page in the Sustainability section of Nitrogen oxides (NOx ) 30.6 ash classification and segregation plant managing environmental risks. We seek our website. Sulfur oxides (SOx ) 74.6 at our thermal assets in India by the to take all possible preventive action to Total Total Particulate matter (PM) 2.5 second half of 2020. The plant will help minimise our impact on the environment. Performance 1,843.0 51.3 process the fly ash into fine quality ash, Our aim is to avoid pollution from In 2019, we enhanced our Environmental 1 Emission figures are derived from direct thousand thousand measurement and estimation tonnes tonnes for which there is greater market demand. effluents or disposal of waste and Protection Management Standard on 2 Estimations for flue gas flow are based hazardous substances, prevent spills or hazardous material handling. We tightened on operational conditions Local Environmental Protection other environmental incidents, keep our the requirements around hazard analysis Why this is material atmospheric emissions within legally and identification, spill prevention, Our atmospheric emissions are 6.2 0.5 As a result of the products and acceptable levels, as well as monitor and inspection of process equipment and safe largely from our thermal energy assets. 0.3 0.2 services we provide, our operations minimise boundary noise. transfer of hazardous substances. These Material air pollutants are nitrogen ■ Recycling, reuse, composting ■ Landfill may have varying degrees of impact enhanced requirements are focused on oxides, sulfur oxides, and particulate ■ Ash pond ■ Incineration on the environment, in direct or Environmental considerations are the early identification of environmental matter. Persistent organic pollutants, ■ Landfill ■ On-site storage indirect ways. These may include the integrated into the planning for all existing risks, and prioritises the mitigation and volatile organic compounds and ■ Others: incineration and on-site storage ■ Recycling discharge of effluent, disposal of waste, and new operations, products and services. management of such risks as well as the hazardous air pollutants emissions 1 We do not dispose of waste through deep-well injection. The respective disposal methods are in and the emission of air pollutants. Where required, environmental maintenance of the integrity and operability are not considered significant and some cases dependent on the availability of the disposal sites at our operational facilities Any improper or non-compliant assessments are conducted in accordance of our assets. Training programmes therefore not monitored. 2 Coal ash is directly disposed by Sembcorp in line with local regulations. We have added ash pond as a non-hazardous category to more accurately show our non-hazardous waste disposal methods discharge, disposal or emissions may with national and / or international were conducted to support the result in harm to the environment and standards and methodologies, which implementation of the enhanced Standard. 66 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 67 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Empowering Our People and Communities The Group HSSE management system corporate initiatives and best practices risk of non-compliance, our stringent details expectations and principles by different operations. monitoring and control regime includes Health relating to different aspects and detailed inspections as well as preventive and Safety People Community activities of stakeholders across the Product Safety and Quality maintenance of all critical instruments, Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities entire Group, including contractors, Our customers depend on us to deliver including meters and sensors, for us and vendors and suppliers working within safe, reliable products and services for their our customers. We also conduct regular Making health and safety an Creating a values-based and Contributing to the sustainable or at project sites outside our facilities. municipal or industrial needs. Quality quality checks to comply with regulatory integral part of our everyday business performance-led culture. Providing development of our communities Our management approach and assurance and compliance testing of our requirements and to ensure that the and culture an engaging employment experience through engagement and partnerships, elements are aligned with the relevant products are done at various points in water we produce is safe for our where our people can grow and investing in initiatives that make OHSAS and ISO Standards, and ensures the value chain, from manufacturing to customers and end users, including our and excel a lasting positive impact that we comply with the legal distribution and supply. To minimise the potable water products. Relevant SDG Relevant SDGs Relevant SDGs requirements relating to HSSE in all respective jurisdictions of our Prioritising Safety Excellence in Our Solar Business Growth operations. In addition, the framework is supported by Sembcorp’s 10 Elements for HSSE Excellence. For more information on our health and safety certifications, please How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 visit the Initiatives, Memberships & We continued to implement training We began a comprehensive We made community investments Certifications page in the Sustainability and tools to nurture a proactive health employee benefits review in our key totalling S$1.4 million. Some 91% section of our website. and safety culture, including the markets. Recommended changes of our global operations engaged Behaviour-based Safety programme based on our findings are being in local community and / or The Group HSSE management system and the 360 Safety Check tool. implemented, starting with our home development programmes covers key processes for effective health We suffered two fatalities in 2019. base in Singapore. We also saw an and safety management including: We are deeply saddened by the loss increase in training hours from 2018, and are working closely with our registering an average of 29.4 hours • Hazard Identification and stakeholders across the Group to of training per employee Risk Assessment improve our health and safety • Incident Investigation and Reporting practices, and prevent injuries • Occupational Health Management • Consultation and Communication Sembcorp Solar safety personnel demonstrating the use of safety equipment > Pages 68 – 71 > Pages 71 – 74 > Pages 74 – 75 For more information on our Group Since 2016, our solar business arm in Singapore, Sembcorp Solar, has grown to HSSE management system, please refer become one of Singapore’s largest renewable energy players. While Singapore’s Health and Safety to be an organisation with a proactive which is benchmarked against to Our Performance: 2019 Performance target to produce enough solar energy to power about 350,000 homes annually Why this is material health and safety culture. We are global industry safety statistics such Data and Commentary report in the by 2030 has presented business opportunities, this rapid growth has also A healthy and safe work environment is committed to working towards the goal as the International Oil and Gas Sustainability section of our website. highlighted new risks including exposure to pool price fluctuations, lower solar a fundamental right of every employee. of zero fatalities and injuries in our Producers Global Safety Performance specific yields and safety risks. To ensure the necessary risk controls were put in As Sembcorp develops and operates workplaces, with a workforce that puts Indicators. To meet our goals we Training place, our solar operations needed to take a proactive approach to risk power and water plants as well as other safety first. have in place structures and Equipping our people with the relevant identification. As such, Sembcorp Solar adapted the Group HSSE management facilities, we understand that the nature processes including: HSSE and technical capabilities ensures system and was certified with ISO 45001 for its occupational health and safety of our business operations means that Achieving a safe work environment is a the presence of competent safety management system. Our solar operations also undergo regular internal and any lapse in health or safety protocols responsibility shared by all employees • Board review practitioners and line managers across external site safety audits. can result in direct or indirect impact on across the organisation. To incentivise • Oversight by the board’s our operations. Training plans are To support the upskilling of the solar industry workforce in Singapore, our people, customers and communities. positive behaviour and practices, health Risk Committee tailored according to the particular Sembcorp Solar also conducted safety trainings and briefings to build the safety Therefore, it is our responsibility to ensure and safety key performance indicators • Leadership by our Group President operation or site’s risk profile and local awareness and capabilities of our contractors. In addition, Sembcorp Solar that our employees and contractors at are embedded into relevant employees’ & CEO, supported by our conditions. Examples of operationsdeveloped customised programmes to verify and monitor the implementation all levels are equipped with training and scorecards. Performance incentives for Senior Leadership Council (SLC) specific training include defensive of our contractors’ safety management system to promote health and safety at the right tools to work safely. all employees also take into account the • A Group Health, Safety, Security and driving at our solid waste management the workplace. Group’s overall health and safety Environment (HSSE) management unit as well as project commissioning Our approach performance for the year. system comprising: and construction orientation for project As at the end of 2019, all our solar sites in Singapore have maintained a record Occupational Health and Safety –– Group HSSE Policy development teams. An annual global of zero demerit points under the single-stage Demerit Points System for the Health and safety form an integral part We aim for progressive improvement –– Group HSSE rules, standards HSSE workshop also provides a platform construction industry. of our daily business operations. We aim in our health and safety performance, and procedures for learning as well as the sharing of 68 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 69 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues To optimise and ensure consistent quality deeply saddened by these incidents. Employee Development so that Sembcorp can continue to output of our products, we use digital Lost Time Injury Rate1,2 Accident Severity Rate1,4 Thorough investigations were carried out, The Sembcorp Mindset encapsulates the support capability building in the (number per million man-hours) (number per million man-hours) technology to augment our processes and following which preventive measures five Cs – Creative Insight, Committed, communities in which we operate. reduce the risk of human error in the 1.5 480 473.13 have been implemented to prevent Connected, Courageous and Curious monitoring and control functions of our recurrence. We are working closely with – and defines who we are and how We also see effective performance operations. For example since 2018, our stakeholders to further improve we conduct ourselves. Building on this management as a critical component of our water facilities in Singapore and China 1.1 1.13 safety and prevent injuries. foundation, we add our Leadership Sembcorp’s business transformation. 1.0 320 have implemented Sembcorp’s Virtual Competencies which mark key This is facilitated through our Brain platform for water, which allows 263.4r People behaviours unique to Sembcorp performance management system round-the-clock automated monitoring. Why this is material employees. Together these represent LeAD, which takes a structured 0.5 160 The unprecedented energy transition our promise to internal and external approach by aligning employee Physical Security 0.5 has led to significant risks and business stakeholders, to drive organisational performance with the Sembcorp 137.0r The global operating landscape is model disruption. In this fast-changing excellence and play our part in creating Mindset, Leadership Competencies and becoming increasingly complex and climate, our people play a vital role in a sustainable future. key performance indicators needed to challenging. As our businesses grow 0.0 0 ensuring our business stays relevant by create a values-based, performance-led across different markets, we must stay 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 delivering on our transformation We are committed to equipping our culture, with integrity at our core. current in the way we safeguard the 1 Group Health and Safety Performance is reported and recorded in accordance with the reporting strategy and goals. Developing and people with the capabilities and security of our people and assets. In line requirements defined in the Group HSSE Health and Safety Performance Reporting Standards. retaining a capable, highly motivated know-how to achieve their fullest Employee Compensation and Benefits The principles adopted in our standards are consistent with the general principles of the Global with our responsibility to provide a and performance-led workforce will be potential, while enabling them to To attract, motivate and retain talent, Reporting Initiative Standards, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Reporting secure working environment, we closely Standards, and the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Occupational key to our shared success. Of the issues remain relevant in an evolving operating we have in place a competitive monitor and assess security threats and health and safety data covers employees and contractors in our operational assets and Energy assets relating to our people, our materiality landscape. We have in place several remuneration and reward system under construction. It also includes data from administrative offices and service companies, with the risks to our operations. review process has identified the organising frameworks to facilitate based on key principles of equity and exception of our corporate headquarters. All injuries involved male employees and contractors following areas of focus: talent management and enhance our meritocracy. Our salary levels are 2 Lost time injury rate is defined as the number of fatalities and lost work day cases per million Our Group Security Management man-hours worked. It includes high-consequence work-related injuries, which refer to injuries that employees’ experience. reviewed regularly and benchmarked System adopts a holistic approach to result in permanent disability and / or injuries that require long term follow up such as physiotherapy • Employee development against local standards, as well as data treatment and where the individual is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within safeguarding the long-term security of • Employee compensation and benefits To enhance talent management, from global market surveys and six months our operations – by aligning physical • Employee engagement we launched a new talent review and consultancy firms. Where applicable, 3 Data for Sembcorp Design and Construction (SDC) is excluded as it was divested in December 2019. security measures with international In 2019, SDC had 13 cases of lost time injuries • Employee wellness succession planning framework in 2019 they also undergo negotiations with practices. The management system 4 Accident severity rate is defined as the number of lost work days per million man-hours worked. • Diversity and equal opportunities that will allow a more consistent employee unions. includes standards such as the We record lost time due to one fatality as 6,000 lost work days, in line with guidelines by the • Human rights and labour standards approach to talent identification and US NIOSH Physical Access Control Standards and development. This talent review and Annual variable bonuses for all staff r Accident severity rate was revised to include fatalities Recommended Practices which are Our approach succession planning process has been are based on Group and individual benchmarked against relevant international We have more than 4,500 employees integrated into our existing LeAD performances which are measured security management protocols. Occupational Health and Safety 2018 designed to help employees be more across our operations spanning multiple (Lead, Appraise, Develop) and Learn against personal targets that were agreed Standard. In line with our aim to be vigilant in their work environments. markets worldwide, where labour laws, online platform, which allows us to upon with their supervisors. Employee Assurance an organisation that puts safety first, By applying this tool, workers are able regulations, employment codes and more effectively review our talent pool share plans that foster greater ownership Our Group HSSE assurance is aligned with we continued to implement training to identify and correct risky behaviour practices differ widely. All our local from a global perspective. of the Group’s shared success are also the Integrated Assurance Framework and tools that nurture a proactive health or potential hazards in their human resource policies comply with available. For example, under the (IAF). The IAF adopts a three lines of and safety culture: workplaces. This in turn facilitates local laws. Leadership development is another Restricted Share Plan, managerial defence (LOD) approach that sets in place more prompt rectification of unsafe key focus. In addition to deepening our participants of the Group are awarded a robust accountability system to enable • We began train-the-trainer sessions conditions, which contributes to a Our human resource practices are guided bench strength, our leadership restricted shares, while non-managerial effective controls for identified risks and on our Behaviour-based Safety (BBS) reduction of incident occurrences by the following governing frameworks development programmes facilitate participants receive their awards in an to promote continual improvement. programme that we rolled out to all and policies: more comprehensive learning and equivalent cash value, known as the our operating assets globally starting There was an increase in both our lost development across different job grades. Sembcorp Challenge Bonus. For more information about how in 2018. To foster greater ownership time injury rate and accident severity • Oversight by the board’s Executive These programmes include priority HSSE is managed through our three LOD of safety practices across the group, rate since 2018. We remain committed Resource & Compensation Committee learning areas such as effective For more information on our model, please refer to Our Performance: employees are encouraged to conduct to health and safety as an integral part • Oversight by the SLC communication skills. employee share plans, please see the 2019 Performance Data and Commentary regular BBS observations and record of our business, and have implemented • The Sembcorp Mindset and Share-based Incentive Plans section report in the Sustainability section of them in a web-based mobile targeted initiatives to improve the ability Leadership Competencies As a global company, local talent is of the Directors’ Statement on pages our website application. By the end of 2019, we of our operations and sites to identify • Code of Conduct key to helping us understand market 109 to 114. completed all train-the-trainer sessions and address unsafe conditions or actions. • Human Rights Policy conditions, while supporting local Performance • Harassment Policy communities in meaningful and We revised our disclosures for • We ran a campaign to promote the With great regret, we report that there • Grievance Handling Policy and effective ways. We strive to identify occupational health and safety to adoption of our 360 Safety Check, were two fatalities concerning our Consequence Management the best possible local talent for senior begin aligning with the new GRI 403: a 30-second visual self-check tool contractors in India in 2019. We are Framework management roles in our markets, 70 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 71 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues voluntary annual health screenings are Performance were applicable to all executive staff Engaging Employees to Build a Dynamic Organisation available free of charge to all employees In line with our aim to create a purposeand took effect on January 1, 2020. Our people play a vital role in ensuring The results also identified key drivers of Our employee engagement efforts in most markets. driven, values-based and performance-led A more formal flexible benefits the success of our business, as we employee satisfaction which included also include encouraging volunteerism. culture, we continued to implement programme will be implemented transform to meet the challenges of talent engagement and change In October 2019, we launched Diversity and Equal Opportunities initiatives to provide an environment later in 2020 industry disruption. To build a dynamic management. We will be focusing our Sembcorp Gives Back Week (SGBW). Sembcorp is committed to promoting where our people can grow and excel: organisation able to thrive in this efforts on these areas as we continue Over 1,000 staff volunteers across a fair and equitable work environment Employee turnover rate was stable, fast-changing climate, we focused on our transformation journey. nine countries came together to give for all employees. We believe all • In 2019, nine new leadership increasing slightly from 11.6% in on developing a values-based, back to local communities, with a host employees should have the opportunity development programmes were 2018 to 12.1% in 2019. The voluntary performance-led culture underpinned To foster stronger engagement of employee-led activities centred to thrive in a workplace free from introduced. These included priority turnover rate increased from 9.3% by purpose and integrity. with our people, we introduced the on the theme of “Zero Waste”. harassment and prejudice. Recruitment, learning areas following in 2018 to 10.1% in 2019. We “60 seconds with 60 people” campaign. Together, the Sembcorp family clocked promotion, rewards and career recommendations from a 2018 recognise the potential impact that As part of our ongoing cultureThe series featured 60 different approximately 5,000 volunteer hours. development opportunities are based on review of our training curriculum, our transformation efforts may building exercise, we enhanced our internal stakeholders in 60-second In a post-event survey, over 80% of merit, without discrimination against such as effective communication skills have on our people, and remain global employee engagement survey long videos designed to educate respondents agreed that the programme employees on various initiatives across age, race, gender, sexual orientation, committed to engaging employees to gain a deeper understanding of our allowed them to engage fellow religion, family or marital status, or any • In Singapore, we piloted courses in employees. Survey results were above the Group. We also launched an colleagues and senior management in other status protected by the laws or the Sembcorp technical leadership industry average, with encouraging employee video contest for staff. a more meaningful way. Employee Turnover1 (%) regulations in the locations where we academy, an internal training arm scores in the areas of satisfaction The winning entries were chosen by operate. Our SLC is represented by more that aims to equip technical workers with the company as a purpose-driven popular vote, with over 80% of global 15 Staff in Singapore after a beach clean-up than five different nationalities and our with relevant functional skills and socially responsible organisation. staff participating. during SGBW global workforce includes people from 12.1 11.6 over 35 nationalities. • To equip our senior leaders with skills 10 10.1 needed to operate in an increasingly Human Rights and Labour Standards complex global environment, we Our Human Rights Policy defines our also piloted courses on an e-platform responsibility to ensure the highest in partnership with top business 5 respect for human rights and the schools such as Yale and University company’s expectations of our workers of California Berkeley to provide our and business partners. Our Code of senior leadership with convenient Conduct also sets out our stance on access to executive education 0 fairness, opportunity, non-discrimination, 2017 2018 2019 dignity, respect and harassment. We are • We brought together 100 global 1 The data covers both voluntary and committed to honouring and safeguarding seniors leaders at our inaugural involuntary turnover of permanent employees of Sembcorp and its subsidiaries, the spirit of the following international three-day Global Leadership excluding Sembcorp Marine declarations as well as the relevant Conference. The conference gave reinforcing instruments: participants an opportunity to co-create and develop solutions to • United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles further business objectives in line Training Hours1 (average hours per employee) Employee Engagement views. In addition, employees can also Singapore, China and India which is on Business and Human Rights with the Group’s strategic direction Effective employee engagement is engage senior management directly in available for department heads to use • UN Universal Declaration of 30 29.4 fundamental to any organisation’s virtual chat sessions via an internal for activities that encourage employee Human Rights • We extended the roll out of LeAD to 25.2 long-term success, as a key driver to online platform. well-being and team bonding. • International Labour Organization’s other markets. The system provides a 23.8 increase job satisfaction and performance. Around the world, employee-led Declaration on Fundamental more holistic approach to performance 20 Over the course of the year, organisational committees organise a range of Principles and Rights at Work and development, laying a stronger We continue to grow our employee updates, internal campaigns as well as recreational activities as well as nutrition • The Employers’ Pledge of foundation for us to manage talent engagement platforms. For example, business milestones are communicated and stress management programmes Fair Employment Practices development across the Group senior management conducts quarterly to staff via channels such as briefings to support employees’ physical and under Singapore’s Tripartite 10 face-to-face staff communication and workshops, emails, the intranet and mental well-being. Alliance for Fair and Progressive • In 2019, we conducted an employee sessions which are webcast to all markets. other internal digital platforms. Employment Practices benefits review in our key markets. Market-specific engagement sessions We also provide Group Term Life Recommendations from survey 0 are also organised to keep employees Employee Wellness and Group Personal Accident coverage Our Code of Conduct, Human findings, together with benchmarking up to date on current happenings and Workplace wellness and health promotion in all our key markets. Besides Rights Policy and Whistle-blowing Policy against industry peers, will be 2017 2018 2019 upcoming projects. Both platforms are key elements of an employee’s mandatory medical screenings for are available in the Reports & Policies implemented in phases. For example 1 The data covers both permanent and contract employees of Sembcorp and its incorporate question-and-answer overall well-being. We have set aside a employees who might be potentially page in the Sustainability section of in Singapore, we introduced an subsidiaries, excluding Sembcorp Marine segments for employees to share their dedicated budget in major markets like exposed to occupational health hazards, our website. increase in paid time-off. The changes 72 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 73 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues and equipping them with the right skills has been in line with group-wide Community we also recognise that the nature of our youth development, apprenticeships and capabilities as we continue on our efforts to better equip our staff, Why this is material business means we can have varying Community Contributions and job training programmes. (S$ million) transformation journey. develop new capabilities, and support Sembcorp’s long-term success is based degrees of economic, social and building a values-based, performanceon being a valued partner to the environmental impact, in direct or indirect 6 As part of our commitment to SDG 6, The average number of training hours led culture. We are committed to communities we operate in. While our ways, on the communities in which we 5.5 one of our priority SDGs, we invested in per employee grew approximately developing a robust training curriculum businesses play a role in supporting operate. As such, as part of our licence programmes to secure access to safe 17% to 29.4 hours in 2019 from to support capability building of economic development and improving to operate, we aim to contribute to drinking water for communities living in 4 25.2 hours the year before. The increase our employees. the quality of life in these communities, the sustainable development of local the vicinity of our plants. To date, we communities through engagement, by have installed a total of 27 community investing in meaningful partnerships and water treatment plants that serve over Empowering Women in India to Secure Their Own Livelihoods programmes that can have a lasting 2 39,000 people in India and Myanmar. positive impact. 1.4 Some 91% of our global operations 1.1 engaged in local community and / or Our approach development programmes. We plan to 0 Our operations support local development grow this coverage to 100% by 2022. 2017 2018 2019 by providing employment and revenue that contribute towards economic Total volunteer hours was more than growth as well as the infrastructural guidelines aim to achieve a greater 8,500 hours, of which over 10% was development of our host communities. proportion of investments in long-term spent outside of working hours. initiatives which integrate community With operations across multiple needs with our business objectives, markets worldwide, we understand core competencies or assets. Our efforts first-hand how the needs of one region currently focus on supporting the can vary greatly from another. We believe following five Sustainable Development our local operations are best placed Goals (SDGs): to understand the unique needs of the community and forge partnerships with local stakeholders. As such, markets manage community assessments, engagement programmes and contributions, while aligning to group-level strategic frameworks and guidelines. Women observing a demonstration as Ms Shyamala, 31, is a mother of has been investing in education and part of the beauty therapy course offered Assessment and Engagement two. She wants to give her children healthcare related programmes to support by SEDC Our community assessment and The LBG (formerly London Benchmarking the best she can and hopes that a communities across India since 2012. engagement practices are guided by Group) Guidance Manual guides the good education will help them find from SEDC have been able to improve our Group Stakeholder and Community tracking and reporting of our community well-paying jobs in the future. Up until Established in 2018, SEDC provides their livelihood with their newly Engagement Policy, and the Group contributions. This uses standardised recently, those dreams seemed a training and development courses to acquired skills. Community Grievance Management definitions and valuations to account distant reality as she struggled to put women and youth in the surrounding Policy. Environmental and social impact for our total community giving. food on the table for her family. villages of Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. Since graduating from the programme, studies are carried out in accordance To make ends meet, she did odd jobs It aims to reduce high unemployment Ms Shyamala now runs a small with international and / or national For more information on our in the agricultural fields near her rates among these target groups, cosmetics and beauty parlour in her standards for major new projects and programmes, please visit Our Approach: village, earning less than INR3,000 especially young mothers. village of Varkaipudi. Her income expansions as required. These studies Feature Stories section on our website. (S$57) a month. has more than doubled compared to typically include social management Since its establishment, SEDC has what she earned in the fields. plans which are implemented by the Performance Last year, she enrolled in a free threetrained over 450 women and youth. operations team at various stages of In 2019, Sembcorp contributed month training programme offered Of the five courses on offer, tailoring “I never imagined that as a housewife, project development. S$1.4 million through cash and in-kind by the Sembcorp Entrepreneurship and beauty therapy have proven to be I would be able support my children’s donations to charities and community Development Centre (SEDC) to the most popular and account for education with my own earnings,” Community Investment initiatives globally, of which over become a certified beautician. over 70% of enrolment. A significant she said. “With more income, I am Our revamped Community Investment S$350,000 comprised mandatory The Centre is a community initiative by number of participants who completed now much more confident about Guidelines provide a more strategic contributions. Some of the causes we Sembcorp Energy India Limited, which the training and received certification our future.” approach to our charitable contributions support include environmental and and community investments. The updated water conservation education, as well as 74 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 75 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Embedding Responsible Business Practices Sembcorp’s Integrated Assurance Framework Corporate Ethical Business Risk THREE LINES OF DEFENCE Governance and Compliance Management FIRST SECOND THIRD Our Priorities Our Priorities Our Priorities Accountability Standardisation, Independent Maintaining an effective governance Fostering an ethical culture and Ensuring effective identification of and Ownership Consistency and Monitoring Assurance and decision-making structure conducting our business with integrity material risks and putting in place an while ensuring we comply with all adequate and effective risk management legal and regulatory requirements and internal control system Relevant SDG Relevant SDG Relevant SDG Driven by Driven by Driven by Markets and Business lines / subject matter Group Integrated Audit business units experts and corporate functions and external audit How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 How We Did in 2019 we developed a Board Diversity Policy • Promote appropriate risk assessment forms of communication such as We continue to be placed in the In 2019, we enhanced and updated We made good progress in that sets out our principles on board and due diligence to prevent, compliance newsletters and email. top 10 of the Singapore Governance our Anti-bribery and Corruption transitioning from our Governance composition. In the appointment of its detect and respond to unlawful & Transparency Index Policy and programme, and also Assurance Framework (GAF) to an directors, Sembcorp considers directors and unethical conduct or Employees are required to complete an enhanced our Third Party Due Integrated Assurance Framework with different skillsets, experience, age, non-compliance annual declaration form to acknowledge Diligence compliance programme (IAF) which puts greater emphasis gender, educational and professional that they have read and understood the on the three lines of defence background, length of service, as well as The goals, initiatives and key performance principles and requirements of the CoC, (LOD) model other relevant attributes. indicators of the GEC function are tied agree to comply with its principles and > Pages 76 – 77 > Pages 77 – 78 > Pages 78 – 82 to its charter. The outcomes and requirements, and will promptly report Ethical Business and Compliance effectiveness of the GEC function are any violation through available reporting Why this is material reported quarterly to the Senior Leadership channels. Suppliers and contractors who Responsible business conduct and Council and Audit Committee as part work with Sembcorp are also expected Corporate Governance We comply with the principles and internal controls. It also provides guidelines ethical business practices ensure the of our governance and accountability to follow the Supplier CoC. Why this is material guidelines set out in the new Singapore on the appropriate segregation of duties long-term viability of our businesses structure. The policies under the We define corporate governance as Code of Corporate Governance 2018 and a checklist of recommended by building trust and confidence with ownership and management of the The CoC also provides a channel for the structures, practices and processes issued by the Monetary Authority of internal controls for operations in our our stakeholders. We are committed department include the Code of Conduct employees to raise concerns or seek in place by which our organisation is Singapore, and our corporate various markets to put in place. to high standards of behaviour and (CoC), the Anti-bribery and Corruption guidance in the event of a breach or controlled, operated, directed and governance practices are set out in the integrity in everything we do and (ABC) Policy and the Data Protection if they encounter difficult choices in the accountable for. Well-defined corporate Corporate Governance Statement in We are in the midst of transitioning from expect the same of those whom we do Policy. The GEC function continuously course of their work. The whistlegovernance processes are essential this annual report. our GAF to an IAF to provide a more business with. We have zero tolerance looks to implement and enhance other blowing channel was established for to enhancing corporate accountability holistic and robust basis of assurance for for fraud, bribery and corruption. Our relevant policies relating to the CoC and this purpose and the organisation does and long-term sustainability to preserve To facilitate the effective execution of the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk businesses operate in highly regulated regulatory compliance to ensure we not tolerate any retaliation against and maximise shareholder value. both our internal processes and business management and internal control system. environments where non-compliance remain up-to-date and relevant to employees who raise concerns about a needs, we have in place a clearly defined The process identifies risk from strategic may subject us to statutory and industry and regulatory practices. violation of the law, the CoC or any Our approach organisational structure which includes top-down and bottom-up perspectives regulatory fines and sanctions, including company policy in good faith. Sembcorp is led by an effective board. detailed roles and responsibilities for key from each key market, putting greater losing our licence to operate and The bonus payments of senior managers In 2019, 82% were independent appointment holders. This is further emphasis on the three LOD model. material litigation. It may also result in and above are tied to the completion of Our Code of Conduct is available non-executive directors. Our Board supported by an established matrix for damage to our reputation and mandatory compliance training which in the Reports & Policies page in the Diversity Policy sets out principles to the delegation of authority as well as For more information on our three credibility, limiting future growth comprises the CoC, ABC Policy, Gifts, Sustainability section of our website. maintain diversity on the board’s financial authority limits, which has been LOD model, please visit Our Focus opportunities. Entertainment and Travel Policy as well composition. The board is collectively approved by the board. A comprehensive Areas: Governance page in the as the Data Protection Policy. Anti-bribery and Corruption responsible for providing overall set of governance and functional Sustainability section of our website. Our approach Our ABC Policy sets out the standards strategic direction and ensuring policies ensure entity-level controls have Our Group Ethics & Compliance (GEC) Code of Conduct and principles on conducting business the long-term success of the Group. been implemented across the Group. Performance function holds the charter to: All employees are required to comply with integrity and the highest ethical Several board committees have The Group’s internal controls policy and We maintained sixth position in the with the requirements of the CoC, which standards expected of every employee. been established with clear terms manual, which adopts principles of the Singapore Governance and Transparency • Foster and promote an organisational is endorsed by the board. Requirements of Our employees are trained on our policy of reference, both to assist the board Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Index, the leading index for assessing culture of integrity, ethical decisionthe CoC are communicated to employees and principles via e-learning or face-toin fulfilling its responsibilities and to of the Treadway Commission, provides the corporate governance practices of making and compliance that is in globally through a message from the face training sessions. Our Third Party provide independent oversight a framework for what constitutes an Singapore-listed companies. As part of line with our values and with the Group President & CEO, via face-to-face Due Diligence compliance programme of management. effective and adequate system of our ongoing efforts towards best practice, law and regulations training sessions, e-learning and in other helps us better manage and mitigate the 76 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 77 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues risk of bribery and corruption that may total of 29 face-to-face ABC training company in Nanjing, China, concluded provides a framework of evaluation for exposure in each country to further serious view of any breach of health arise through an intermediary or third workshops with over 800 employees in February 2020. The Group’s share of new business opportunities. It also assures manage concentration risk. and safety standards and regulations party acting on behalf of Sembcorp. globally, and covered topics including fines and cash settlement for both the our board and shareholders that key across all our operations and facilities. gifts, entertainment, travel and third criminal and civil claims was a total of enterprise and business risks faced by The Group is committed to Data Protection party due diligence. S$54 million. This amount included a the organisation have been identified, maintaining a strong financial position Sembcorp recognises the need to The Group Data Protection Policy sets S$10 million fine for the criminal case assessed and managed with appropriate and targets to achieve an investment have in place a strong and competent out the framework and principles which A total of 22 data protection and cyber in 2019. In addition, there was a risk mitigation measures and controls. grade equivalent credit rating to team that is committed to our values govern the collection, use, disclosure security awareness training workshops S$44 million settlement for the civil claim. ensure access to funding and protect for transformation and growth. and retention of confidential personal were conducted for over 700 employees Our approach shareholder value. The Group has a Sembcorp will continue to equip our and business data. Our businesses globally. We regularly review our data The isolated incident had resulted from The Group has an overall risk management defined set of risk management employees with the relevant globally are expected to abide by the protection policies, processes, practices the illegal and criminal activities of some strategy, as set in place by the board of policies to manage our financial risks. capabilities and competencies, and policy, subject to local laws and and controls to identify any gaps or lapses former employees of the joint venture directors and supported by the board’s The Group will not take part in any provide an engaging employment regulations on data protection. We also which may result in non-compliance. company for a period prior to early 2017. Risk Committee and Audit Committee. form of transaction that is deemed experience, thereby creating a respect the privacy of individuals and We seek to ensure that all identified The involved employees have since been The Risk Committee reviews and enhances speculative in nature, under any purpose-driven, values-based and we protect personal information gaps are addressed in a timely fashion. charged, tried and sentenced in their the effectiveness of the Group’s risk circumstance. performance-led culture to ensure a whenever personal data is collected, individual capacities by the local courts. management and health, safety, security sustainable business. used and processed by us. Fines and Sanctions The employment of those individuals and environment (HSSE) plans, systems, b. Environmental We are committed to complying with found guilty was also terminated. processes and procedures. It also Sembcorp is committed to operating Sembcorp is also committed to Adherence to the above policies is statutory and regulatory requirements. regularly reviews group-wide risks in a socially responsible manner to building our digital capabilities to accounted for and monitored with the As part of our IAF, all heads of markets Following this incident, we took all including significant risk exposures relating manage our impact on the improve the efficiency of our following approach: the second LOD must certify compliance with all relevant necessary steps to further strengthen our to foreign exchange rates, commodity environment, as well as provide businesses and to maintain an and policymakers will train and educate legal and regulatory requirements in internal controls and processes in our water prices and major investment projects as high quality products and services effective control environment to employees, as well as monitor, review their respective entities and countries operations in China. We implemented a well as corresponding risk mitigation that contribute to the sustainable manage the cyber risk exposure of and perform a gap analysis and use data of operation. These certifications are proprietary technology platform, Virtual plans. HSSE policies, guidelines and development of the communities our and our customers’ data as well analytics to identify trends or anomalies. reported to the senior management Brain platform for water, in wastewater limits are also regularly reviewed. in which we operate. as our assets and operations. The outcomes of these analyses are and the Audit Committee quarterly. facilities to track and monitor plant Oversight for risk management within reported to senior management for In instances where there has been performance and compliance, and the Group’s listed entities lies with their In addition to being committed to In addition, Sembcorp strongly accountability and action. In addition, evidence of non-compliance, the case established a Country Centre of Excellence respective boards. complying with all applicable believes in the need to conduct our audits are also conducted by Group undergoes review or investigation. in Shanghai. The Centre of Excellence environmental standards and business in a responsible manner Integrated Audit (GIA) to provide an We report significant monetary fines centralises all technical resources, Risk Appetite Framework requirements through our established and to make a positive contribution independent assurance to management, incurred upon the payment of the fine. implements Group water business The board has determined a risk internal policies and processes, we to the communities in which we and to ensure follow up action plans are standard operating procedures and appetite framework which guides the assess the impact of environmental operate. The Group is therefore implemented to mitigate future lapses. In 2019, we paid significant* fines oversees project management and board and management in the and climate-related risks on our committed to high standards of totalling S$10.5 million in Chile and controls for all new projects. The Group execution of the Group’s strategy business, and apply appropriate business conduct, engaging Performance China. Of this, S$522,000 was for three has also committed to new investments and objectives. Under this framework, control measures to manage them. our stakeholders and managing our In 2019, employee acknowledgement of fines incurred by our operations in Chile, worth approximately S$45 million over the board has approved risk appetite Where viable, we also invest in environmental and social impact on compliance to the CoC was 100%, and while S$10 million was for a fine the next four years to develop projects statements with respect to economic, the latest technologies and utilise local communities responsibly. a total of 94% of employees underwent imposed on a joint venture company and initiatives to support environmental environmental, social and governance our capabilities to achieve better mandatory compliance training. in China. In Chile, two fines amounting protection in the country. areas in line with our material issues for operational efficiencies and promote d. Governance to S$400,000 were for incidents that the management and reporting of our environmental sustainability. As a listed company on the Singapore As part of our continuous improvement occurred in 2015 and 2016 for delays Risk Management overall sustainability performance. Exchange with the responsibility efforts, we have updated and enhanced in the construction of wells, water and Why this is material c. Social and accountability to a wide range of our ABC Policy and supporting sewage networks that were committed The global energy transition and a. Economic Sembcorp is committed to being a stakeholders, Sembcorp is committed programmes to ensure that these are under a regulatory development plan. technological advances have led to Sembcorp actively pursues global responsible business that ensures to maintaining high standards of relevant and up to date with current In addition, a S$122,000 fine was imposed significant risks and business model strategies to deliver sustainable the health and safety of our people, behaviour and integrity, and aims to regulations and best practices in due to the discharge of untreated sewage disruptions. As a diverse company with long-term value and growth. This and makes a positive impact on our be the best in class for governance addition to being compliant with the to the ocean in 2016. The sewage lifting a presence in multiple markets, we are includes developing new capabilities stakeholders and communities. In our practices. The Group strives to comply US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and system was improved to better manage exposed to risks including financial, and expanding our business in both pursuit of operational excellence and with all applicable laws and regulatory UK Bribery Act. We have also enhanced the sewage water discharge. operational, compliance and information existing and new markets. Though business growth, Sembcorp will not requirements in the countries where our Third Party Due Diligence compliance technology threats. Risk management is this carries inherent risks, the Group compromise the health and safety of we operate, including adopting a programme to strengthen our controls In China, legal proceedings related to the an integral part of our business as it aims to be a disciplined investor with our internal and external stakeholders. zero tolerance stance towards any around intermediary and third party discharge of off-specification wastewater minimises the likelihood and impact of an investment approval framework The health and safety of all our form of fraud, bribery and relationships. In 2019, we conducted a by a joint venture wastewater treatment potential financial losses, as well as that integrates robust due diligence employees, contractors, customers corruption. We expect all employees and risk management. The Group has and the public is of paramount to adhere to the guidelines set forth * A significant fine refers to a monetary sanction equal to or above S$50,000 that was paid during the financial year set appropriate limits for investment importance to the Group. We take a in the company’s CoC. 78 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 79 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Our risk appetite statements are proactively manage the risk of fraud, whistle-blowing portal or other enhance and improve existing managing HSSE risks associated with set out the parameters for managing also supported by key risk indicators, bribery and corruption. We actively communication channels. emergency response protocols and our activities and services in a the Group’s exposure to counterparty, which are monitored and reported influence and encourage our joint business continuity plans across our systematic manner. liquidity, foreign exchange and other to the board’s Risk Committee on ventures and associates to adopt our The company will take reasonable business entities, and to strengthen material transaction risks. an ongoing basis. fraud risk management framework. steps to protect the identity of the operational readiness. Crisis Insurance The Group maintains a zero tolerance whistle-blower. The company does not communication procedures are also As a risk transfer mechanism, the Financial and market risks Enterprise Risk Management policy for fraud, which we take to condone retaliatory action against the embedded as part of the Group’s Group has in place a comprehensive The Group defines and utilises The Group is committed to ensuring include corruption and bribery. whistle-blower. The whistle-blowing crisis management framework. insurance programme to protect approved financial instruments to that an effective and practical This is regularly communicated to case will be received by the Head of The Group’s crisis management, our worldwide business operations manage exposure to foreign exchange, enterprise risk management (ERM) employees through awareness GIA and an investigation will be emergency response and business against financial loss arising from commodity prices and interest rate framework is in place. Our framework training and e-learning programmes. conducted in compliance with the continuity plans are regularly tested property damage, machinery fluctuations arising from operational, aims to safeguard our people and requirements set out in the and fine-tuned to ensure that the breakdown, business interruption financing and investment activities. assets, protect shareholders’ interests, The following key activities and company’s Whistle-blowing Policy. Group can respond effectively to and / or third party liability. The Under the Group’s overall treasury facilitate informed decision-making complementary policies and crises and emergencies, while Group has also engaged a panel of policy, transactions for speculative for value creation and ultimately procedures are part of our holistic Our Whistle-blowing Policy is ensuring that critical business insurance consultants, leveraging purposes are strictly prohibited. enhance our brand and reputation. approach towards fraud risk available in the Report & Policies functions can recover and continue their technical expertise and The commodities include fuel oil, In designing our ERM framework, the management, and to address the page in the Sustainability section of in a timely manner. In addition, the resources to negotiate competitive coal and natural gas. Transactions Group has adapted and made reference risk of bribery and corruption: our website. Group adopts key standards and pricing and comprehensive such as foreign exchange forwards, to various industry risk management practices set out by ISO 22301:2012 coverage with insurance companies. interest rate swaps, commodities standards, such as ISO 31000 and Preventive anti-fraud measures b. Operational Risk Management under Societal Security – Business To balance the cost of risk transfer, swaps, purchase of options and the Enterprise Risk Management – • Code of Conduct The Group’s management of Continuity Management Systems – the Group focuses on insuring contracts for differences are used to Integrated Framework of the Committee • Conflict of Interest Policy operational risk is focused on the Requirements. This approach catastrophic events while maintaining manage these risks as appropriate. of Sponsoring Organizations of the • Gifts and Entertainment Policy following areas: enables us to build resilience and our emphasis on improving internal Transactions are only allowed for Treadway Commission. Our ERM • Fraud risk assessments enhances our ability to manage and controls for operations and hedging purposes based on the framework specifically sets out a • Third party due diligence Crisis management and respond to emergencies. It also maintenance. Sembcorp Captive underlying business and operating systematic and structured approach business continuity helps to minimise the impact of Insurance, a wholly-owned captive requirements. Exposure to foreign towards risk management through the Detective anti-fraud measures A robust and effective crisis incidents on people and the insurance subsidiary, provides currency risk is also hedged naturally, following activities: • Whistle-blowing Policy management framework is put in environment, prevent loss of assets first-layer coverage against property where possible. In addition, the • Compliance and monitoring place with the Group’s crisis and mitigate disruption to business damage and business interruption Group has financial authority limits, • Awareness training and workshops • Pre-employment screening management, emergency response operations, while safeguarding the losses for the Group’s energy which seek to limit and mitigate • Risk identification and assessment and business continuity procedures company’s reputation. operations in Singapore and operational risk by setting out the • Formulation of key risk Responsive anti-fraud measures and plans. These procedures and Teesside in the UK. Sembcorp threshold of approvals required for management strategies • Fraud reporting procedures plans are regularly tested and Health, Safety, Security and Captive Insurance serves not only as entering into contractual obligations • Design and implementation of risk • Fraud investigation procedures fine-tuned. The Group also addresses the Environment (HSSE) an internal risk transfer mechanism and investments. mitigation controls (preventive, • Grievance handling procedures crises and emergencies through the A group-wide HSSE management but also showcases the Group’s detective and responsive controls) implementation of appropriate system, which is aligned with efforts to promote greater Default and counterparty credit risks • Monitoring and timely reporting Whistle-blowing policy prevention, preparedness, as well as international standards and industry accountability and responsibility Our default and counterparty credit of risk management performance Sembcorp has a Whistle-blowing response and recovery programmes. best practice, sets out the standard in operations and maintenance. risks arise from varied counterparties and risk exposure levels Policy in place. We provide employees Some of these material operational for operations in the various markets Over the years, Sembcorp Captive such as customers, vendors, joint • Continual improvement of and external parties with well-defined risks include natural disasters, to actively manage HSSE risks. Insurance has successfully built up a venture partners and financial risk management capabilities and and accessible channels through terrorism, cybersecurity attacks, strong capital surplus, allowing it to institutions who may fall short of mitigation measures which they may, in confidence, epidemic outbreak and failure of The Group HSSE department is extend its insurance reach to other their payment and / or performance raise concerns regarding possible critical equipment. guided by our Group President & CEO operations and broaden its scope of obligations. As such, a group-wide Our ERM framework is supported by the improprieties in the conduct of and the board’s Risk Committee, coverage should the need arise. credit risk policy has been put in following key pillars: business activities, financial reporting With operations across the globe, reflecting the high priority accorded place to ensure that we transact or other matters to the Audit the Group monitors for emerging to HSSE issues at Sembcorp. c. Financial, Market and with creditworthy counterparties as a. Fraud Risk Management Committee. This facilitates an threats that may disrupt our The department has formalised a Credit Risk Management much as possible. This is achieved The possibility of fraud is an inherent independent investigation of such operations, and formulates and group-wide HSSE management The Group actively manages our via thorough credit analysis and limit risk in any organisation. To manage matters for appropriate resolution. updates our strategies and mitigation system and promotes global HSSE financial, market and credit risk setting prior to entering into any this, the Group has established a The policy is available on our website measures accordingly. Focus is efforts to ensure effective and timely exposures with respect to foreign business contract. After entering fraud prevention policy which has and is reviewed regularly. placed on establishing a robust and management of HSSE issues across exchange rates, commodity prices and into business contracts, we perform been approved by our board’s Risk effective crisis management the Group. This management system interest rates via established policies, periodic credit reviews and monitor Committee. The policy provides a A whistle-blower may submit framework that is relevant to the is aligned with ISO 14001 and including treasury policies, financial credit exposures closely to detect framework and comprehensive his / her allegations or concerns via current business environment and OHSAS 18001 Standards and provides authority limits and Governance signs of credit deterioration. In the guidance on anti-fraud measures to telephone, email, our online risk landscape. The Group aims to guidance to business units in actively Assurance Certification. These policies event that we have to deal with 80 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 81 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Environmental, Social and Governance Review Our Material ESG Issues Corporate Governance Statement counterparties who do not meet country limits, the board will • Ensure that all decisions are Sembcorp’s corporate governance principles are built on integrity and reflect our commitment our minimum credit criteria due to consider the key risk drivers at taken at an appropriate level and to enhance shareholder value. commercial reasons, approval from hand, in terms of investment size, supported by a business purpose / the relevant authorities according duration and economic life of commercial rationale and the The board and management of necessary financial and human to the credit risk policy has to be the project, as well as the level appropriate documentation Sembcorp recognise that well-defined Board Matters resources are in place; obtained before proceeding. of residual risk after the corporate governance processes are Board’s Conduct of Affairs Risk mitigation measures such as implementation of mitigation plans. • Establish and maintain adequate essential to enhancing corporate (Principle 1) • Ensure the adequacy of the Group’s parental and banker’s guarantees, documentation of the Group’s accountability and long-term sustainability. Effective board to lead and risk management and internal letters of credit, deposit securities As at December 31, 2019, the tax risk evaluation and tax risk We are committed to high standards effect controls controls framework and standards, and collateral may be deployed on countries outside of Singapore in management, and update the of governance to create, preserve including ethical standards, and that a case-by-case basis as credit which the Group has the largest Group’s tax risk management and maximise long-term value for all Sembcorp is led by an effective board our obligations to shareholders enhancements. Last but not least, investment exposure are India policies including internal controls, its stakeholders. comprising mainly independent and the Group’s other stakeholders we also screen for material (S$3.8 billion), China (S$1.7 billion), as and when appropriate non-executive directors. Headed by are met; concentrations of credit risk to Brazil (S$1.7 billion) and the UK This report sets out the company’s Ang Kong Hua and directed by Group ensure that no single counterparty (S$1.1 billion). Investment • Develop respectful professional corporate governance processes and President & CEO Neil McGregor, there • Review management performance or group of related counterparties exposure comprises invested capital, relationships with all tax activities for the financial year 2019 with are 12 members on the board. and oversee the Group’s overall has excessive credit exposure that including reserves and committed authorities, government bodies reference to the principles set out in the performance objectives, key may result in material impact on the contingent support for projects and other related third parties new Singapore Code of Corporate Non-Executive operational initiatives, financial plans Group in the event of a default. and assets. Governance 2018 (the Code), which is Independent Directors and annual budget, major Performance applicable to this corporate governance investments, divestments and funding Ang Kong Hua d. Investment Risk Management e. Tax Risk Management We made good progress in transitioning statement. The board is pleased to proposals, financial performance Chairman To ensure that prudence is exercised It is our policy to comply with all from our GAF to an IAF to put greater report that the company has complied reviews, risk management and in all investment decisions, the relevant taxation laws, regulations and emphasis on the three LOD model. in all material aspects with the Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican corporate governance practices; and Group has in place an investment regulatory disclosure requirements. principles and provisions set out in Tham Kui Seng approval process, under which a For more details on our IAF, please the Code, and any deviations are Dr Teh Kok Peng • Provide guidance on sustainability disciplined approach is taken to review In 2018, Singapore implemented refer to page 95 of the Corporate explained in this report. Ajaib Haridass issues such as environmental, the key risks and opportunities Country-by-Country (CbC) Reporting Governance Statement and Our Focus Nicky Tan Ng Kuang social and governance factors, presented by potential investments. for Singapore multinational enterprise Areas: Governance page in the We constantly review and refine our Yap Chee Keong as part of the Group’s overall As part of our investment approval (MNE) groups. As a SingaporeSustainability section of our website. processes in light of best practice, Jonathan Asherson OBE business strategy. process, all new investments and headquartered MNE, Sembcorp is consistent with the needs and Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng transactions are reviewed by a required to file a CbC Report for circumstances of the Group. Sembcorp Executive Director The directors and executive officers cross-functional project team that financial years beginning on or after ranked sixth in the 2019 edition of of the company have each given an provides risk assessments, mitigation January 1, 2017. During the financial the Singapore Governance and Neil McGregor undertaking that in the exercise of Group President & CEO measures and recommendations to year, we filed the CbC Report in Transparency Index, which is the his / her powers and duties as a director the respective authorised persons for compliance with the submission leading index for assessing corporate Non-Executive & or executive officer of the company, approval in accordance with the requirements of the Inland Revenue governance practices of nearly 600 Non-Independent Directors he / she shall use his / her best applicable financial authority limits. Authority of Singapore. Singapore listed companies. At the endeavours to comply with the Margaret Lui Singapore Corporate Awards 2019, requirements of the Listing Manual of Nagi Hamiyeh (appointed March 3, 2020) In addition, to ensure that With regard to our approach to tax Sembcorp also won the gold award for Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Sembcorp maintains appropriate risk management, our policy Best Investor Relations in the category (SGX-ST) that are in force from time diversification across different stipulates the following: for companies with S$1 billion and Role of the board to time, and to use his / her best geographies, the Group has put in above in market capitalisation. The board is collectively responsible for endeavours to procure that the place a country risk framework to • Comply with relevant taxation the long-term success of the company. company shall so comply. monitor and report our investment laws and regulations and other Each director exercises his / her exposure globally. Furthermore, regulatory disclosure independent judgement to act in good Temasek Holdings (Temasek), our investment exposure to each requirements faith and in the best interests of the Sembcorp’s substantial shareholder, country is regularly reported to company for the creation of long-term is an engaged shareholder. It promotes the board’s Risk Committee. This • Apply diligent professional care value for shareholders. The principal sound corporate governance practices framework also defines limits that and judgement to arrive at duties of the board are to: in its portfolio companies. This includes have been approved by the board well-reasoned recommendations, the formation of high calibre, and stipulates that any deviation supplemented by advance • Provide leadership and guidance experienced and diverse boards to from these country limits requires rulings from tax authorities, to management on the Group’s guide and complement management prior board approval according to written advice and confirmation overall strategy with a focus leadership. It does not direct its a set procedure. In reviewing any from external tax advisors / on value creation, innovation portfolio companies’ business decisions request for deviations from the experts, as appropriate as well as the need to ensure the or operations. 82 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 83 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Delegation by the board authorisation and approval limits for • Reviews and approves business Directors’ Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings in 2019 To assist the board in the efficient borrowings, including off-balance sheet opportunities, major contracts, Board member Board E ExCo A AC R RC C ERCC N NC T TAP AGM discharge of its responsibilities and commitments, investments, acquisitions, strategic investments and divestments provide independent oversight of disposals, capital and operating of the Group that are within the Total number of meetings management, the board has established expenditures, requisitions and expenses. financial authority limits delegated held in 2019 8 6 5 4 4 2 4 1 the following board committees with Significant investments and transactions by the board, as well as the Group’s Ang Kong Hua^ 7* 5* – – 4 2 3* 1 written terms of reference: exceeding threshold limits are approved investment and treasury policies; by the board while transactions below Neil McGregor 8 6 – – – – 4 1 • Executive Committee (ExCo) the threshold limits are approved by the • Evaluates and recommends to the Margaret Lui 8 6 – – 4 2 – 1 • Audit Committee (AC) ExCo and management to facilitate board for approval, investments, Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican 8 – – – 4 2 – 1 • Risk Committee (RC) operational efficiency, in accordance capital and operating expenditures, Tham Kui Seng 8 6 – – 4 – – 1 • Executive Resource & Compensation with applicable financial authority limits. and divestments that are above the Dr Teh Kok Peng 7* – 5 4 – – 4 1 Committee (ERCC) financial authority limits; and Ajaib Haridass^ 8 1^ 5 4 – – 1^ 1 • Nominating Committee (NC) The roles and responsibilities as well Nicky Tan Ng Kuang 7* 6 – – 4 2 – 1 • Technology Advisory Panel (TAP) as key activities of each of the board • Reviews the performance of Yap Chee Keong 8 – 5 4 – – – 1 committees are explained in this the Group’s new investments or Jonathan Asherson OBE 8 – 5 4 – – 4 1 Special purpose committees are also corporate governance statement. projects against the approved established from time to time as dictated The composition of these board financial model periodically. Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng 7* – – – – – 4 1 by business imperatives. committees for 2019 is set out below. * Even though directors could not attend, they conveyed their views / comments for consideration prior to the meetings they did not attend Technology Advisory Panel T ^ Mr Haridass chaired the ExCo and TAP meetings on behalf of Mr Ang during his medical leave The composition of the board committees Executive Committee E The TAP, chaired by Mr Ang, comprises is structured to ensure an equitable The five-member ExCo is chaired by seven members where two of whom are The principal responsibilities of the TAP Meetings and attendance in consultation with the directors before distribution of responsibilities among Mr Ang. co-opted members. are to: The board meets regularly to review and the start of each year, with the aim to board members, maximise the approve the release of the company’s have full attendance for all meetings. effectiveness of the board and foster active Ang Kong Hua Ang Kong Hua • Provide guidance to the Group on financial results as well as to deliberate Directors who are unable to attend participation and contribution. Diversity Chairman Chairman our vision and strategy in leveraging on key activities and business strategies, physically are allowed, under the of experience and appropriate skills are technology to enhance Sembcorp’s including significant acquisitions, disposals company’s constitution, to participate Neil McGregor Neil McGregor considered along with the need to leadership in our business sectors; and operational matters, and to approve remotely through voice calls or video Margaret Lui Dr Teh Kok Peng maintain appropriate checks and balances the Group’s budget for the following year. conferencing. Should a director be Tham Kui Seng Jonathan Asherson OBE among the different committees. Hence, • Advise on technologies for research At these board meetings, the Group unable to attend any board or board Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng membership of the ExCo, with its and development (R&D) as well as President & CEO updates the board on the committee meeting, he / she will still be Prof Ng How Yong greater involvement in key businesses (co-opted member) investment; development and prospects of the Group’s sent the papers tabled for discussion and executive decisions, and membership The ExCo assists the board in Prof Lui Pao Chuen businesses and each board committee and will have the opportunity to of the AC and RC, with their respective developing the overall strategy for (co-opted member) • Oversee the development and provides a report on its activities. Minutes separately convey views to the chairman oversight roles, are mutually exclusive. the Group and supervises, on behalf of application of significant emerging of board committee meetings are for consideration or further discussion the board, the management of the and potentially disruptive circulated to the board to keep directors with other directors. If necessary, a The Group has adopted internal controls Group’s business and affairs. Under its Profiles of the TAP members are technologies relevant to Sembcorp; updated on each committee’s activities. separate session may be organised for and guidelines that set out financial terms of reference, the ExCo: found on pages 49 and 50. In addition, time is set aside for the board management to brief that director and • Ensure the appropriate management to discuss management performance. obtain his / her comments and / or Composition of Board Committees for 2019 of specialised R&D projects, tapping Members of management are not approval. Decisions made by the board into various government grant present at, or privy to, such discussions. and board committees may be obtained Board member E ExCo A AC R RC C ERCC N NC T TAP support schemes and the external at meetings or via circular resolutions. technological ecosystem; Ad-hoc board meetings may be Directors disclose personal interests in Ang Kong Hua Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman convened as necessary to consider other transactions and recuse themselves from Neil McGregor Member Member • Provide guidance to develop systems specific matters. An annual off-site discussions and decisions in the event of Margaret Lui Member Member Member for intellectual property creation and strategic review meeting is organised for any conflict. Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Member Member protection; and the board to have in-depth discussions Tham Kui Seng Member Member with management on the Group’s The directors’ attendance at board and Dr Teh Kok Peng Member Member Member • Advise Sembcorp’s board and strategy and other key issues relevant to committee meetings held during the management on technological the Group. In September 2019, this financial year 2019 is set out above. Ajaib Haridass Member Chairman trends and opportunities in line with off-site meeting was held in Vietnam. Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Member Member Member the company’s growth strategies. Board orientation and training Yap Chee Keong Chairman Member Board and board committee meetings, All new directors receive formal letters Jonathan Asherson OBE Member Member Member as well as annual general meetings of appointment explaining the Group’s Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng Member (AGMs) of the company are scheduled governance policies and practices, 84 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 85 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement as well as their duties and obligations as • Quarterly overviews presented by They witnessed the signing ceremony of Director Experience / Skills Matrix directors. New directors also receive an the Group Risk department to the the joint venture agreement with our information pack that contains the Group’s RC and AC on the Group’s risk and key partner, Becamex IDC Corporation, Senior Risk HR organisation structure, the contact details controls environment and updates to introduce a new generation of Industry Accounting of members of senior management, the relating to risk management sustainable smart energy solutions to management Strategic company’s constitution, the respective initiatives and key emerging threats, the market. Directors also visited experience experience planning & Finance Legal IT R&D management management committees’ terms of reference, the such as the heightened risk of Sembcorp Marine’s state-of-the-art Experience / Skills Group’s policies relating to disclosure of cyberattacks; Tuas Boulevard Yard in Singapore to interests in securities and prevention of understand the yard’s work-efficient Ang Kong Hua insider trading, Code of Conduct, as • Biannual briefings by the Group design and integrated centralised facilities. Neil McGregor well as guidelines on directors’ fees. Strategic Communications and Sustainability department to the RC Complete, adequate and Margaret Lui The company conducts comprehensive on sustainability matters; timely information Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican orientation programmes for new directors. The company recognises that directors These include briefings on board policies • Presentation on digital strategy should be provided with complete, Tham Kui Seng and processes, presentations by senior and roadmap by the Group Digital adequate and timely information to Dr Teh Kok Peng management about Sembcorp, overall & Technology department to enable them to make informed Ajaib Haridass strategic plans and direction, financial the board; decisions and discharge their duties performance and business activities in well. They must also be kept abreast of Nicky Tan Ng Kuang various markets as well as facility visits. • Presentation on cybersecurity the Group’s operational and financial Yap Chee Keong performance by the Group Digital performance, key issues, challenges As part of training and professional & Technology department to and opportunities. Financial highlights Jonathan Asherson OBE development for the board, the company the AC; of the Group’s performance and key Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng ensures that directors are kept up to date developments are presented on a Nagi Hamiyeh on changes to regulations, guidelines • Quarterly updates on our cyber quarterly basis at board meetings. and accounting standards, as well as posture, KPIs and road map by the The Group President & CEO, Group other relevant trends or topics including Group Digital & Technology Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary also acts on behalf of the company to businesses, from the engineering, the outlook of various markets, macro department to the AC; and members of senior management The appointment and removal of liaise with SGX-ST, the Accounting and petrochemical, oil, power and gas and view of the global environment and attend board and board committee the company secretary are subject to Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) real estate industries to accountancy, updates to the Singapore Code of • Public conferences, forum meetings to provide insight into the board’s approval. The company and when necessary, shareholders. banking and finance, legal and technology Corporate Governance. These are done discussions and briefings on topics matters under discussion and to secretary assists the Chairman to ensure R&D sectors. In addition to contributing either during board meetings or at such as financial and accounting address any queries that the directors good flow of information within the board Independent professional advice their valuable expertise and insights to specially convened sessions including fraud, offshore & marine outlook, may have. and its committees as well as between In the furtherance of its duties, the board deliberations, best efforts have training sessions and seminars digital transformation and cyber the board and senior management. board exercises its discretion to seek been made to ensure that directors also conducted by external professionals resilience, developments in As part of Sembcorp’s commitment In addition, the company secretary independent professional advice at the bring independent and objective which are funded by the company. exponential technologies and towards environmental protection, attends to corporate and administrative company’s expense, where necessary. perspectives to allow balanced and its social impacts, challenges and directors are provided with electronic matters, such as arranging orientations well-considered decisions to be made. In 2019, the directors participated in the issues in corporate governance, tablets to access board and board for new directors and assisting with Board Composition and following briefings and updates as well as the roles and skillsets of committee papers prior to and during their professional development as Guidance (Principle 2) The board is of the view that the directors provided by the company: board members. meetings, in order to reduce paper required. In consultation with the Independence and diversity of as a group provide an appropriate consumption. As a general rule, Chairman and Group President & CEO, the board balance and mix of skills, knowledge • Briefings on developments in In addition, articles and reports relevant all relevant board papers are made the company secretary assists the board and experience, as well as other aspects accounting and governance standards to the Group’s businesses are also available to directors a week prior to with scheduling of board and board Board composition and diversity of diversity such as gender and age. presented by our external auditors circulated to the directors for information. meetings. This is to give directors committee meetings and prepares The company sees diversity at the board at AC meetings; Furthermore, directors regularly visit sufficient time to review and consider meeting agendas. The company level as essential towards the achievement The current board comprises 12 directors the Group’s operations in different key matters at hand. It also facilitates more secretary also administers, attends and of its strategic objectives, and has put in including nine independent directors. • Quarterly updates on the Group’s markets, to enhance their understanding focused discussions from matters arising minutes board proceedings. place a Board Diversity Policy which sets With the exception of the Group business and strategic developments of our businesses as well as promote during meetings. Should the board out principles to maintain diversity on President & CEO, all directors are presented by the Group President active engagement and foster stronger require additional information or The company secretary assists the board board composition, as well as to ensure non-executive and independent of & CEO to the board; relationships with stakeholders. consultation, they have ready and in ensuring the Group’s compliance effective decision making and governance management in terms of character and independent access to the Group with the company’s constitution and of the company and its businesses. judgement. This helps to assure • Update on the Integrated Assurance In 2019, the directors visited our facilities President & CEO, Group CFO, senior applicable regulations including objectivity on issues deliberated. Framework presented by the Group and industrial parks in Vietnam, where management, the company secretary, requirements of the Companies Act, Board members include business Integrated Audit and Group Risk they also met with government officials internal and external auditors, and Securities & Futures Act and SGX-ST leaders and professionals with strong Profiles of the directors are found departments to the AC; as well as key customers and partners. counsel at all times. Listing Manual. The company secretary experience relevant to the Group’s on pages 44 to 48. 86 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 87 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Review of directors’ independence board of SDC on October 24, 2019 appointment as an independent Chairman and on the board and there is no necessity • Review training and professional Each director’s independence is before the company divested SDC in director has been sought and approved Chief Executive Officer to appoint a lead independent director, development programmes for individually assessed by the board December 2019. in separate resolutions by (a) all (Principle 3) as nine out of 12 directors, including the directors. annually, with a focus on their capacity shareholders, and (b) all shareholders, Clear division of responsibilities the Chairman, are independent. to bring independence of judgement The board has assessed these matters excluding shareholders who also serve between the board and management Succession planning, appointment to board decisions. Directors are and is of the view that the payment as directors or the CEO or their Board Membership and re-appointment of directors required to complete a Director’s received from these subsidiaries is associates. However, as transition, The Chairman and the Group President (Principle 4) The NC seeks to refresh board Independence Checklist based on the not significant in the context of the Guideline 2.4 of the 2012 Code of & CEO are not related to each other. Formal and transparent process for membership progressively and in an provisions in the Code. The checklist Group’s earnings. The board believes Corporate Governance continues to Their roles are kept separate to ensure a the appointment and re-appointment orderly manner. All appointments to the also requires each director to assess that Tan Sri Mohd Hassan, Mr Haridass apply till December 31, 2021, where the clear division of responsibilities, greater of directors board are made based on merit and whether he / she considers himself / and Mr Tham’s directorships in these independence of any director who has accountability and increased capacity for measured against objective criteria, herself independent despite subsidiaries have not and will not served on the board beyond nine years independent decision-making. Nominating Committee N taking into account the individual’s involvement in any of the relationships interfere, or be reasonably perceived to from the date of his / her first The NC, chaired by Mr Ang, comprises skills, experience, and knowledge, identified in the Code. Thereafter, interfere, with their ability to exercise appointment should be subject to a The Chairman helms the board, four members: as well as competencies which support the Nominating Committee (NC) independent judgement and act in the particularly rigorous review. The board ExCo, ERCC, NC and the TAP. He chairs the Group’s strategies and business reviews the completed checklists, best interests of the company. has set a term limit of nine years for all general meetings and plays a pivotal Ang Kong Hua plans. They must also be able to assesses the independence of the determining the independence of role in fostering constructive dialogue Chairman & Independent Director discharge their responsibilities while directors and presents its Tan Sri Mohd Hassan is also a Senior directors of the company. Should the between shareholders, the board upholding the highest standards of Margaret Lui recommendations to the board. International Advisor of Temasek board decide to retain any director and management. Non-Executive & governance practised by the Group. International Advisors, a subsidiary of beyond this nine-year term, it will Non-Independent Director In 2019, all directors except Mr McGregor Temasek. His role as advisor at Temasek rigorously review the independence of The Chairman leads and ensures The board recognises the Tan Sri Mohd Hassan and Mrs Lui declared themselves to International Advisors is non-executive that director and determine if he / she effective and comprehensive discussion Independent Director contributions of directors who have be independent. As a result of the in nature and he is not involved in its should continue to be regarded as an on relevant matters including over time, developed deep insights into disclosures received, the board also day-to-day conduct of business. He is independent director. strategic issues and business planning. Nicky Tan Ng Kuang the Group’s businesses. It exercises Independent Director assessed the independence of Tan Sri also not accustomed or under an He ensures that board and board discretion to retain the services of Mohd Hassan, Mr Tham, Mr Haridass obligation, whether formal or informal, In 2019, Mr Ang and Tan Sri Mohd committee meetings are conducted in such directors where appropriate, and Dr Kwa as elaborated below. to act in accordance with the directions, Hassan have served the board for a manner that promotes open The NC is responsible for continually to avoid an abrupt loss of experienced The board has determined that with the instructions or wishes of Temasek. The more than nine years. The board has communication, participation and reviewing Sembcorp’s board composition directors with a valuable understanding exception of Mr McGregor and Mrs Lui, board believes that Tan Sri Mohd observed that over the tenure from decision making. He provides advice to ensure strong, independent and of the Group. all members of Sembcorp’s board for Hassan has acted and will continue to 2010 until present, both Mr Ang and to management and monitors all sound board leadership to drive the 2019 are independent. act in the best interests of Sembcorp. Tan Sri Mohd Hassan have shown follow-up actions, ensuring that board continued success of the company and When the need for a new director arises, strong independence of character and decisions are translated into executive our businesses. Key responsibilities of the NC consults with the board and Mr McGregor is the Group President Dr Kwa is a director of the Agency for judgement in the discharge of their action. In addition, the Chairman the NC are to: management and identifies a shortlist & CEO and an executive director of Science, Technology and Research duties as directors. They have provides leadership and guidance to of potential candidates. Candidates are Sembcorp. Mrs Lui is CEO of Azalea (A*STAR), with which Sembcorp is jointly accumulated deep knowledge of the management, particularly with regard to • Ensure that the board has the sourced through an extensive network Investment Management, a subsidiary researching R&D projects mainly under business of Sembcorp and made global growth strategies and project right balance of skills, attributes, of contacts and appropriate external of Temasek, which is a substantial the Sembcorp-EMA Energy Technology valuable contributions to the board, investments. As chairman of the ERCC, knowledge and experience in databases. Criteria include skill sets, shareholder of the company. Partnership for which the company has particularly to the management and in collaboration with the Group business, finance and related experience, age, gender, educational made payment in excess of S$200,000 team and especially during this President & CEO, he oversees the industries, as well as management and professional background, length of Tan Sri Mohd Hassan is an independent for project costs. A*STAR has also transformation period that the Group’s talent management and expertise critical to the service and other relevant personal director of Sembcorp Marine, a listed undertaken several research projects Group is undergoing. The board is ensures that robust succession plans are company’s businesses; attributes. The NC interviews candidates subsidiary of the company from which with Sembcorp Marine for which of the opinion that their length of in place for key management positions. and makes its recommendations for the the company received payment in Sembcorp Marine has made payment service has not affected the • Review the composition and size of board’s approval. excess of S$200,000 in aggregate for in excess of S$200,000. The board is of independence of either director, and The Group President & CEO makes the board and its committees and consultancy services and provision the view that the amount paid to that their institutional knowledge is strategic proposals to the board. recommend new appointments, The company subscribes to the principle of utilities services. Mr Haridass has A*STAR is insignificant in the context of advantageous to the Group. Therefore, He develops and manages the re-appointments or re-elections that all directors, including the Group been an independent director of the Group’s earnings and Dr Kwa’s after a rigorous and thorough review, company’s businesses in accordance to the board and board committees President & CEO, should retire and Sembcorp Marine till his retirement on directorship on A*STAR will not the NC recommended to the board with board approved strategies, policies, as appropriate; submit themselves for re-election at April 18, 2018. Mr Tham was a interfere with her ability to exercise that Mr Ang and Tan Sri Mohd Hassan budgets and business plans, and regular intervals, subject to their non-executive director of Sembcorp independent judgement and act in the shall remain independent despite ensures accountability while providing • Review the directors’ independence continued satisfactory performance. Design and Construction (SDC), formerly best interests of Sembcorp. serving more than nine years on the guidance and leadership to key and succession plans for the board; The company’s constitution requires a a wholly-owned subsidiary, from which board, and the board concurred. Both management personnel. third of our directors to retire and the company received payment in Under the Code, any director serving Mr Ang and Tan Sri Mohd Hassan • Develop an evaluation process and subject themselves for re-election by excess of S$200,000 for consultancy more than nine years will not be recused themselves from the discussion The board has ascertained that there criteria for the board and board shareholders at every AGM (one-third services. Mr Tham retired from the independent unless his / her continued and decision making. is a strong element of independence committees’ performance; and rotation rule). 88 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 89 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Date of first Date of last re-election further recommendations on such and confirmed that the Group had no Position held appointment / re-appointment Remuneration Matters matters to the board for its relationship with the firm that would Board member on the board to the board as director Nature of appointment Procedures for Developing consideration; affect the latter’s independence. Remuneration Policies Ang Kong Hua* Chairman Feb 26, 2010 Apr 20, 2018* Non-executive / Independent (Principle 6) • Establish guidelines on share-based In reviewing succession planning and Neil McGregor* Director May 1, 2014 Apr 19, 2017* Executive / Non-independent Formal and transparent procedure incentives and other long-term the Group’s leadership pipeline, the Margaret Lui* Director Jun 1, 2010 Apr 20, 2018* Non-executive / Non-independent for developing polices on director incentive plans and approve the ERCC reviews the development of Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican Director Jun 16, 2010 Apr 18, 2019 Non-executive / Independent and executive remuneration grant of such incentives to key management and senior staff, and Tham Kui Seng Director Jun 1, 2011 Apr 18, 2019 Non-executive / Independent management personnel. These assesses their strengths and Dr Teh Kok Peng Director Oct 15, 2012 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Independent With the assistance of the Executive incentives serve to motivate development needs based on the Ajaib Haridass Director May 1, 2014 Apr 18, 2019 Non-executive / Independent Resource & Compensation Committee, executives to maximise operating Group’s leadership competencies the board ensures that a formal policy and financial performance and framework, with the aim of building Nicky Tan Ng Kuang Director Nov 1, 2015 Apr 18, 2019 Non-executive / Independent and transparent procedure for shareholder value. They are aimed talent and maintaining strong, sound Yap Chee Keong* Director Oct 1, 2016 Apr 19, 2017* Non-executive / Independent determining remuneration of executives at aligning the interests of key leadership for the Group. Each year, Jonathan Asherson OBE Director Jul 17, 2017 Apr 20, 2018 Non-executive / Independent and directors are in place. management personnel with those the ERCC reviews succession planning Dr Josephine Kwa Lay Keng Director Aug 1, 2018 Apr 18, 2019 Non-executive / Independent of shareholders; and for the position of Group President & Nagi Hamiyeh* Director Mar 3, 2020 N.A.* Non-executive / Non-independent Executive Resource & CEO, for officers reporting directly to * Up for retirement and re-election at the company’s upcoming AGM Compensation Committee C • Review succession planning for him, as well as other selected key The ERCC, chaired by Mr Ang, consists key management personnel and positions in the company. Potential In addition, all newly-appointed board representations and principal Each year, in consultation with the NC, of five members. the leadership pipeline for internal and external candidates for directors should submit themselves for commitments to ensure they have the board assesses its performance the organisation. succession are reviewed for different retirement and re-election at the AGM sufficient time to discharge their to identify key areas for improvement in Ang Kong Hua time horizons according to immediate, immediately following their appointment. responsibilities to the board and Sembcorp the effectiveness of the board and Chairman & Independent Director In its deliberations, the ERCC takes mediumand long-term needs. Thereafter, these directors are subject adequately. The board has adopted an board committees, and the requisite into consideration industry practices In addition, the ERCC also reviews the Margaret Lui to the one-third rotation rule. internal guiding principle that seeks to follow-up actions. The assessment Non-Executive & and compensation norms. The Group company’s obligations arising in the address competing time commitments helps the directors to maintain focus Non-Independent Director President & CEO does not attend event of termination of the contracts of Pursuant to the one-third rotation rule, that may be faced when a director holds on their key responsibilities, while discussions relating to his own service of the Group President & CEO Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Mr Ang, Mr McGregor, Mrs Lui and multiple directorships. As a general rule, improving board performance. Independent Director compensation, terms and conditions and key management personnel, to Mr Yap will retire and, with the exception the board has determined that any of service, or the review of his ensure that such contracts contain fair of Mrs Lui, have offered themselves for Sembcorp director should not hold more To facilitate this process, each director Tham Kui Seng performance. In addition, no ERCC and reasonable termination clauses. Independent Director re-election at the forthcoming AGM. than five listed company directorships. is required to complete a questionnaire member or director is involved in Mrs Lui, who was appointed in June However, the board recognises that the on the effectiveness of the board, Nicky Tan Ng Kuang deliberations involving any remuneration, Level and Mix of 2010, is not seeking re-election and individual circumstances and capacity of board committees and individual Independent Director compensation, share-based incentives Remuneration (Principle 7) is retiring at the forthcoming AGM in each director are unique and there may directors’ contribution and performance. or any form of benefits to be granted A competitive reward system ensures April 2020. be instances in which the limit on board The evaluation considers factors to himself / herself. the highest performance and appointments may differ as appropriate. including the size and composition of The ERCC is responsible for developing, retention of directors and key Mr Hamiyeh, who was newly appointed the board and board committees, reviewing and recommending to the The ERCC has access to expert professional management personnel to the board on March 3, 2020, will also For 2019, the NC has reviewed and processes and accountability, board and board the framework of remuneration advice on human resource matters retire and has offered himself for recommended to the board and the board committees’ development and for the board and key management whenever the need arises. In 2019, We recognise that a competitive re-election at the forthcoming AGM. board is satisfied that all directors have effectiveness, information and technology personnel as defined in the Code, Aon Hewitt (Singapore) was engaged as remuneration and reward system based given sufficient time and attention to management, decision-making as well as reviewing succession plans external consultants to provide such on individual performance is important The board does not encourage the the affairs of the company and have processes, risk and crisis management, for key management personnel. advice, including the validation of pay to attract, retain and incentivise the best appointment of alternate directors. discharged their duties adequately. succession planning, communication Key responsibilities are to: levels and compensation structure of the talent. Sembcorp believes that our No alternate director has been or is with senior management and Group President & CEO against the remuneration and reward system aligns currently being appointed to the board. Board Performance stakeholder management. Assessments • Assist the board by ensuring that industry and market, thereby ensuring with the long-term interests and risk (Principle 5) and feedback are consolidated and competitive remuneration policies rigour of the compensation framework policies of the company. The dates of first appointment, last Active participation and valuable presented to the board for discussion. and practices for the company design and its application for executives. re-election / re-appointment of board contributions are key to the overall The NC periodically reviews and refines and management are in place, In engaging external consultants, the The Group President & CEO, as an members are set out above. effectiveness of the board the directors’ questionnaire to enhance and aligned with the prevailing Group ensures that the relationship, executive director, does not receive the evaluation process. economic environment; if any, between ourselves and these director’s fees from Sembcorp. As a lead Review of directors’ time Board evaluation process and external consultants will not affect the member of management, his commitments performance criteria For 2019, the evaluation indicated • Review the Directors’ Fee Framework independence and objectivity of the compensation comprises his salary, While reviewing the re-appointment The board believes that its performance that the board and its committees and remuneration package of each latter. In 2019, the ERCC undertook a allowances, bonuses and share-based and re-election of directors, the NC is inextricably linked to the long-term continued to perform effectively to member of key management review of the independence and incentives conditional upon meeting also considers the directors’ other performance of the Group. support Sembcorp. periodically, and endorse or make objectivity of Aon Hewitt (Singapore) certain performance targets. 90 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 91 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Directors’ Fee Framework for FY2019* The directors’ fees payable to The share component of the directors’ The first is the performance target aim to align the interests of non-executive directors are paid in fees for the financial year 2019 is bonus, linked to the achievement of participants with the interests of S$ cash and in share awards under the intended to be paid in 2020 after the pre-agreed financial and non-financial shareholders, to improve restricted share plan. The ERCC has AGM has been held. performance targets comprising performance and achieve sustainable Retainer fee (per annum) determined that up to 30% of the strategy, business processes and growth for the company. Chairman (all-in fee)1 750,000 aggregate directors’ fees approved by The company does not have a organisation and people development. Director’s basic retainer 75,000 shareholders for a particular financial retirement remuneration plan for It is designed to support the Group’s The performance share award is Chairman, Executive Committee 50,000 year may be paid out in the form of non-executive directors. business strategy and the ongoing only granted to the Group President Chairman, Audit Committee 50,000 restricted share awards. Mr McGregor enhancement of shareholder value & CEO and top management, Chairman, Risk Committee 35,000 does not receive directors’ fees as Remuneration for key through the delivery of annual while the restricted share award is Chairman, Executive Resource & Compensation Committee 35,000 Group President & CEO. The payment management personnel financial strategy and operational granted to a broader group of of directors’ fees (both cash and Sembcorp’s remuneration and reward objectives. At an individual level, the executives. The number of Chairman, Nominating Committee 25,000 share components) is contingent on system for key management personnel performance target bonus will vary performance and restricted shares Chairman, Technology Advisory Panel / Others 25,000 shareholders’ approval. Directors and is designed to ensure competitive according to the actual achievement awarded is determined using a Member, Executive Committee 30,000 their associates also abstain from compensation to attract, retain and of the Group, business unit and valuation of the shares based on a Member, Audit Committee 30,000 voting on any resolution(s) relating motivate employees to deliver high-level individual performance. Monte Carlo simulation. The share Member, Risk Committee 20,000 to their remuneration. performance in accordance with the awards are conditional upon the Member, Executive Resource & Compensation Committee 20,000 company’s risk policies. Further, The second is linked to the creation achievement of pre-determined Member, Nominating Committee 15,000 Share awards granted under the the level and mix of the variable of economic value added (EVA) and performance targets over the Member, Technology Advisory Panel / Others 15,000 restricted share plan to non-executive remuneration component is structured is designed to ensure alignment performance period. The performance directors as part of directors’ fees will to ensure that the total remuneration with sustainable value creation for conditions and targets are approved consist of the grant of fully paid shares for key management personnel is shareholders over the longer term. by the ERCC at the beginning of Attendance fee (per meeting) outright with no performance and strongly aligned to the financial An EVA-linked “bonus bank” is the performance period and the Board meeting (Local)2 2,500 vesting conditions attached but with performance and returns delivered to created for each executive. Typically, final number of shares vested to Board meeting (Overseas)2 5,000 a selling moratorium. Non-executive shareholders. The strong relationship one-third of the bonus bank balance the recipient will depend on the Committee / General meeting (Local)2 1,500 directors are required to hold shares between pay and performance has is paid out in cash each year, while level of achievement of these Committee / General meeting (Overseas)2 3,000 in the company (including shares been validated based on the pay-forthe remaining two-thirds is carried targets over the performance period, Committee / AGM & EGM (flat fee)3 1,000 obtained by other means) worth the performance study conducted by our forward to the following year. subject to the approval of the ERCC. value of their annual basic retainer fee external consultants, Aon Hewitt The carried-forward balances of the The Group President & CEO and Teleconference (per meeting) (currently S$75,000); any excess may (Singapore), in 2019. bonus bank may be either reduced top management will, under the Board meeting 1,500 be disposed of as desired, subject to or increased in future, based on renewed Share Plan, be required Board committee meeting 1,000 SGX-ST listing rules. A non-executive • Fixed remuneration the yearly EVA performance of to hold shares equivalent to a director may only dispose of all of his Fixed remuneration includes an the company and its subsidiaries. minimum of 200% and 100%, General meeting 1,000 shares one year after leaving the board. annual basic salary and, where There are provisions in the EVA respectively, of their annual base Notes: Subject to shareholders’ approval at applicable, fixed allowances, an incentive plan to allow for forfeiture salaries to align their interest with * The Directors’ Fee Framework applies to all directors except the Group President & CEO, who is an the forthcoming AGM, the cash annual wage supplement and other of the outstanding balances in the shareholders. executive director and does not receive any directors’ fees 1 With effect from January 1, 2014, the Chairman of our board only receives one all-in chairman’s fee. component of the directors’ fees for the emoluments. Base salaries of the bonus bank in exceptional He does not receive the directors’ basic fee, nor any further fees or allowances for serving as a chairman financial year 2020 is intended to be key management personnel are circumstances of misstatement of The size of the restricted share or member of any of our board committees paid half-yearly in arrears. determined based on the scope, financial results or misconduct awards granted in 2019 is based 2 Local – home country of the directors criticality and complexity of each resulting in financial loss to on the achievement of stretched Overseas – outside home country of the directors The actual number of shares to be role, equity against peers with the company. financial and non-financial targets, 3 Attendance fee for attending committee meetings is payable if such meetings are held on separate days from the board meeting. In the event that the committee meeting is held on the same day as the board awarded to each non-executive director similar responsibilities, experience with emphasis on organisational meeting, only a flat fee of S$1,000 is payable will be determined by reference to the and competencies, individual • Share-based incentives transformation to meet future volume-weighted average price of a performance and market The company’s performance share challenges and adherence share on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading competitiveness. plan and restricted share plan to environment, health and Details of the share-based Willis Towers Watson. The board days from (and including) the day the were approved and adopted by safety standards. incentives and performance targets are adopted a new fee framework which shares are first quoted ex-dividend • Annual variable bonuses shareholders at an extraordinary available in the Directors’ Statement on aligned to the market from financial after the AGM (or, if the resolution to The annual variable bonus is general meeting (EGM) held by The restricted shares awarded in pages 106 to 116 and Note H1 in the year 2018. approve the final dividend is not intended to recognise the the company on April 22, 2010. 2019 will vest conditionally over Notes to the Financial Statements. approved, over the 14 trading days performance and contributions Through our share-based incentives, a four-year period contingent on The framework above adopted by the immediately following the date of of the individual, while driving we motivate key management satisfactory individual performance Non-executive directors’ fees company is based on a scale of fees the AGM). The number of shares to the achievement of key business personnel to continue to strive of the recipient for the financial An independent review of the Directors’ divided into basic retainer fees, be awarded will be rounded down results for the company. for the Group’s long-term year preceding each tranche of Fee Framework was conducted attendance fees and allowances for to the nearest hundred and any The annual variable bonus shareholder value. In addition, vesting, and continued employment in 2018 by our external consultants, service on board committees. residual balance will be settled in cash. includes two components. our share-based incentive plans with the Group. 92 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 93 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement The performance share awards and total remuneration including Risk Committee R strategy, and to monitor the Group’s Integrated Audit (GIA) provides granted in 2019 were based on long-term incentives, against that of Accountability The RC assists the board in overseeing exposure to key risks that could impact independent assurance across financial, Total Shareholder Return, Return on peer companies. It found fixed and Audit risk management for the Group. the overall strategy and sustainability of operational, compliance and IT risks Equity (excluding Sembcorp Marine), remuneration for senior executives at the The board is accountable to Headed by Mr Haridass, all the four RC the business. Supporting the ERM through a series of walkthroughs and Total Renewables Capacity and Group to be positioned competitively shareholders members are non-executive and framework is a system of internal substantive testing. Management works implementation of digital initiatives vis-à-vis the Group’s relative size and independent directors. controls comprising a Code of Conduct, closely with GIA in closing out all to support the organisational complexity. Further, the total Sembcorp is committed to open and group-wide governance and internal material issues and gaps in a timely transformation efforts. The grant remuneration over the last five years honest communication with shareholders Ajaib Haridass control policies, procedures and manner to ensure continual will have a three-year performance showed a robust correlation with the at all times. The company presents a Chairman guidelines dictating the segregation of improvement of our risk and controls period from January 1, 2019 to Group’s key financial performance balanced and clear assessment of the duties, approval authorities and limits, environment, as well as an effective Dr Teh Kok Peng December 31, 2021. A minimum drivers, including profit from operations Group’s performance, position and and checks and balances embedded feedback loop to the first and second Yap Chee Keong threshold performance must be and net income. The performance prospects to shareholders through the in business processes. The Group has LOD. External audit considers internal Jonathan Asherson OBE achieved to trigger an achievement conditions for short-term incentive plans timely release of our financial results. also considered the various financial controls relevant to the preparation factor, which in turn determines the were only partially met. Additionally, The company believes that prompt risks, details of which can be found on of financial statements to ensure they number of performance shares the shareholder return performance compliance with statutory reporting The RC’s principal functions are to: our company website. give a true and fair view. eventually awarded. conditions that feature in the long-term requirements is imperative to incentive plan were not met, due to maintaining shareholders’ confidence • Review and endorse the Group’s The Group has made good progress The ERM framework and IAF are The performance shares awarded adverse share price movements. As a and trust in the company. In line with policies, guidelines and systems to in transitioning from our current further complemented by a in 2019 will vest in two tranches, result, the realised value of the share SGX-ST requirements, negative govern the process for assessing Governance Assurance Framework Management Control Assessment, 50% vesting in March 2022 and incentive award was much lower than assurance statements were issued by and managing risk, including the (GAF) to an Integrated Assurance which is a rigorous management 50% vesting in March 2023, the granted value. the board in 2019 to accompany the risk appetite; Framework (IAF) to put greater attestation process submitted quarterly contingent on satisfactory individual Group’s quarterly results announcements, emphasis on the three lines of defence by each market and business unit, performance of the recipient for the Overall, the study demonstrates sound confirming that to the best of its • Review the adequacy and (LOD) model. Through the IAF structure, to provide the assurance that its risk financial year preceding each correlation between the Group’s knowledge, nothing had come to its effectiveness of the risk the respective LOD work together to management and internal control tranche of vesting, and continued executive pay, our key financial results, attention which would render the management systems, processes ensure that key financial, operational, system is adequate and effective. employment with the Group. shareholder returns and peer company quarterly results false or misleading. and procedures of the Group; compliance and IT risks are reviewed The submissions and responses are performance, thus reinforcing the and tested using a robust assurance further validated through substantive As the duration of the company’s strong pay-for-performance features The company also recognises the • Review risk-related reports submitted process. Under the IAF, a pragmatic review by the business lines, subject performance share plan and restricted underpinning the executive pay importance of providing the board with by management. These include and collaborative approach to risk matter experts and corporate functions share plan is 10 years commencing programme. accurate and relevant information on a updates on the Group’s risk and controls assessment has been as an added layer of assurance. on the date of adoption on April 22, timely basis. Sembcorp management portfolio, reports on major risk established, with common and 2010, these existing plans are due to Disclosure on Remuneration furnishes management and operations exposure and any other risk-related consistent criteria to assess the risks During the year, the Group’s risk expire on April 21, 2020. The company (Principle 8) reports as well as financial statements issues as well as actions taken to and the adequacy and effectiveness profile was reviewed and updated. is proposing to adopt new Sembcorp to the board on a regular basis. monitor and manage such exposure of the internal controls. The adequacy and effectiveness of the Industries Performance Share Plan Based on the Directors’ Fee Framework, / issues; and Group’s risk management and internal 2020 and Sembcorp Industries the computation of non-executive Risk Management Key markets, as the first LOD, are controls were also assessed and Restricted Share Plan 2020 to replace directors’ fees totalled S$2,285,833 and Internal Controls • Review infrastructure and resources adopting and implementing the IAF. enhanced through a combination of these existing plans following their in 2019 (2018: S$2,206,333). (Principle 9) in place to support the management This requires them to work with the management control assessment and expiry at the forthcoming AGM. of risk including insurance, human second LOD comprising business lines, integrated audits, as well as actions In 2019, the company had no The board has overall responsibility for resources, information technology subject matter experts and corporate taken as a follow up to these exercises. Pay for performance employees who were immediate family the governance of the Group’s risk (IT) systems, and reporting structure functions, to perform a thorough review As in prior years, a pay-for-performance members of a director or the Group management and internal controls. and procedures. and assessment of their risks and For more information on the study was conducted in 2019 by our President & CEO. The company’s board and management internal controls as well as updating of company’s ERM framework, please refer external consultants, Aon Hewitt are fully committed to maintaining Adequate and effective system of the new risk and control registers. Clear to our company website. (Singapore), to review the alignment More information on directors’ sound risk management and internal internal controls escalation procedures, consequence between the Group’s executive pay and key executives’ remuneration can control systems to safeguard The Group has implemented a management framework and key risk For the financial year under review, the programme and business results. The be found on pages 271 and 272. shareholders’ interests and the comprehensive enterprise risk indicators in line with the Group’s risk board has been assured by the Group Group benchmarked ourselves against Group’s assets. management (ERM) framework where appetite were developed concurrently as President & CEO and Group CFO that established comparable-sized local listed key risks identified are deliberated by part of the IAF methodology. Together, the financial records have been properly companies with whom the Group The board determines the company’s management with the support of the these enable the Group to proactively maintained, that the financial competes for talent and capital. levels of risk tolerance and risk policies, risk management function, and manage key risks and controls. This statements give a true and fair view of and oversees management in the reported regularly to the RC. Robust enhances the Group’s reporting and the company’s operations and finances, The study benchmarked different elements design, implementation and monitoring mechanisms and systems have been put monitoring capabilities and cultivates a and that the risk management and of senior executive pay, namely fixed of risk management and internal in place to identify and manage the risk culture of accountability and internal control systems of the Group remuneration, total cash remuneration control systems. inherent risks in our business and ownership. As the third LOD, Group are adequate and effective. 94 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 95 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement The board, with the concurrence of compliance controls, and business and business lines and functional units. records and correspondence and other the AC, is of the opinion that the risk management practices of the For more information on the Employees are provided with accessible data of the company. Auditors also have Shareholder Rights company’s internal controls and risk Group. The AC has established terms of key audit matters, please refer to pages channels to report suspected fraud, the right to enter any premises of the and Engagement management systems are adequate reference approved by the board and 117 to 125. corruption, dishonest practices or other Group and to request that any officer Shareholder Rights and and effective as at December 31, 2019 has explicit authority to investigate misdemeanours to the Group’s furnishes all information and such Conduct of General Meetings to address the financial, operational, any matter as per its terms of reference. External auditors integrated auditors and are protected explanations deemed necessary for the (Principle 11) compliance and IT risks of the Group. Its main responsibilities are to: Each year, the AC reviews the from reprisal to the extent possible. audit team to form an opinion on the Fair and equitable treatment This assessment is based on the risk independence of the company’s external This aims to encourage the reporting probity of action and adequacy of of shareholders management and internal controls • Review the company’s policies, auditors and makes recommendations of such matters in good faith. In 2018, systems and / or controls. established and maintained by the control procedures and accounting to the board on their re-appointment. GIA rolled out a whistle-blowing portal Sembcorp treats all shareholders Group, work performed by external practices with external auditors, During the year, the AC reviewed the on the internet. This whistle-blowing The Head of GIA reports directly to the fairly and equitably. The company and internal auditors, and reviews internal auditors and management; performance of the external auditors portal has a pre-defined set of questions AC and administratively to the Group recognises, protects and facilitates the performed by senior management. using audit quality indicators to guide whistle-blowers in providing President & CEO. The AC participates in exercise of shareholders’ rights and Internal controls, because of their • Review and act in the interest of recommended by ACRA as reference. the required information / documents in the appointment, replacement or continually reviews and updates such inherent limitations, can provide the shareholders in respect of In accordance with SGX-ST Listing Rule reporting their concerns and also to dismissal, as well as evaluation and governance arrangements. reasonable, but not absolute assurance, interested person transactions (IPT) 713(1), Ling Su Min, the audit partner allow the investigation team to maintain compensation of the Head of GIA. regarding the achievement of their falling within the scope of Chapter 9 who was in charge from financial years communication. The AC oversees the The company is committed to ensuring intended control objectives. In this of the SGX-ST Listing Manual, as 2014 to 2018, has retired and Koh Wei outcome of independent investigations The AC reviews the independence, that all shareholders have easy access regard, the board will ensure that well as any matters or issues that Peng has been appointed the new audit and ensures remedial actions are adequacy and effectiveness of the GIA to clear, reliable and meaningful should any significant internal control affect the financial performance of partner for the financial year 2019. followed on. function and processes, as well as ensures information in order to make informed failings or weaknesses arise, necessary the Group; and that GIA is adequately resourced and investment decisions. The company remedial actions will be swiftly taken. The AC reviews and approves the external For more information on our set up to carry out its functions. regularly communicates major • Review the financial results audit plan to ensure the adequacy of Whistle-blowing Policy, please refer developments in our business operations The IAF is in the final stages of announcements, accompanying the audit scope. It also reviews the to our company website. On a quarterly basis, the AC reviews via SGXNet, press releases, circulars to implementation for all key markets. press releases and presentation external auditors’ management letter the proposed scope and performance of shareholders and other appropriate The AC, supported by the RC, oversees slides, as well as the financial and monitors the timely implementation Internal Audit the GIA function, audit findings and channels. The company also encourages the progress of the IAF implementation. statements of the Group and of required corrective or improvement Independent integrated management responses, and the shareholder participation and voting at the adequacy and accuracy of measures. The AC meets external and audit function Group’s Integrated Audit Plan to ensure general meetings. Audit Committee A information disclosed prior to internal auditors at least once a year that it is comprehensive and to enable (Principle 10) submission to the board for approval. without the presence of management The integrated audit function is an the effective and regular review of all Conduct of General Meetings to discuss any issues of concern. It has important third LOD for the company activities within the purview of GIA. All shareholders are invited to participate Chaired by Mr Yap, the four AC The AC has full access to and reviewed the nature and extent of and a key component of the overall It ensures that no limitation on audit in the company’s general meetings. members are as follows: co-operation from management, non-audit services provided by the external assurance framework. has been imposed. Integrated audit and full discretion to invite any director auditors to the Group for the year summary of findings and actions The Group President & CEO delivers Yap Chee Keong or executive officer to attend its excluding services provided to Sembcorp The GIA function provides assurance taken are reviewed and discussed at a short presentation to shareholders Chairman & Independent Director meetings. It also has reasonable Marine, a listed subsidiary which has to the AC that risk management and AC meetings. at each AGM to update them on resources to enable it to discharge its its own audit committee. The AC is internal control systems are in place the performance of Sembcorp’s Dr Teh Kok Peng Independent Director functions properly. satisfied that the independence of the to manage and govern key aspects of The AC is satisfied that the GIA team businesses. Every matter requiring external auditors has not been impaired the Group’s businesses, including our is effective, independent and has approval at a general meeting is Ajaib Haridass Where relevant, the AC is guided by the by their provision of non-audit services. financial, operational, compliance appropriate standing within the company. proposed as a separate resolution. Independent Director recommended best practice for audit Accordingly, the AC has recommended and IT systems. Shareholders present are given an Jonathan Asherson OBE committees, set out in the revised the re-appointment of the external Professional standards opportunity to clarify or direct questions Independent Director Guidebook for Audit Committees issued auditors at the forthcoming AGM. GIA has enhanced its audit approach by and competency on issues pertaining to the proposed by Singapore’s Audit Committee aligning its integrated audit plan with GIA comprises members with relevant resolutions before these are voted on. The AC does not have any member who Guidance Committee. Details of non-audit fees payable the IAF through integrating operational, qualifications and experience and the The board and management are in was a former partner or director of the to the external auditors are found technological and financial audits. integrated audit is carried out based attendance to address any queries or company’s external auditors, KPMG, Key audit matters in Note B4(a) in the Notes to the Subject matter specialists were on the International Standards for concerns and obtain feedback from within the last 12 months or who holds The AC discusses the key audit matters Financial Statements. seconded from relevant functions to the Professional Practice of Internal shareholders. External auditors and legal any financial interest in KPMG. with the management and external GIA for the purposes of these integrated Auditing set by The Institute of advisors are also present to assist the auditors on a quarterly basis to ensure Whistle-blowing policy audits. GIA is also deepening its Internal Auditors. board where necessary. Authority and duties of the AC that they are appropriately dealt with. The AC oversees the Group’s capabilities in the areas of operations, The AC assists the board in discharging The AC concurred with the basis and Whistle-blowing Policy which has IT, and workplace health, safety, security The company disseminates information its statutory and other responsibilities conclusions included in the auditor’s been implemented to strengthen and environment audits. The GIA team on general meetings through notices on internal controls, financial and report for the financial year 2019 with corporate governance and ethical has unrestricted access to all personnel, in our annual reports or circulars. These accounting matters, operational and respect to the key audit matters. business practices across all markets, documents, accounts and property, notices are also released via SGXNet, 96 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 97 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement published in local newspapers and during meetings to ensure that the Disclosure of information on a Shareholders can also directly contact AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Interested Person posted on the company website information is adequately compiled and timely basis the investor relations team via email or Standard. These stakeholders are Transactions www.sembcorp.com ahead of the procedures are carried out effectively. Sembcorp makes every effort to telephone as the contact information for managed by various departments at the Shareholders have adopted an meetings to give ample time for The total number of votes cast for ensure that shareholders and capital investor relations is provided on the corporate and market levels. The table interested person transaction mandate shareholders to review the documents. or against each resolution is tallied market players have easy access to company website. on the following page provides an (IPT Mandate) in respect of IPTs of the In line with the company’s commitment and displayed ‘live’ on-screen to clear, meaningful and timely overview of our stakeholders and key company. The IPT Mandate defines the towards environmental responsibility, shareholders immediately after the information on the company in order To keep senior management and the topics raised. levels and procedures to obtain approval the company no longer distributes vote has been cast. Voting results will to make informed investment decisions. board abreast of market perception and for such transactions. Information our annual reports and circulars via also be announced after the meetings To do this, various channels including concerns, the investor relations team The company maintains a dedicated regarding the IPT Mandate is available CD-ROM. Instead, annual reports via SGXNet. announcements, press releases, provides regular updates on analyst investor relations section on our on the staff intranet. The company also and circulars are available on our shareholder circulars and annual consensus estimates and views. On an company website to cater to the specific has an internal policy and procedure to company website and shareholders The company secretary records reports are utilised. All price-sensitive annual basis, a more comprehensive information needs of shareholders, manage and capture any IPTs. All are encouraged to access these online. minutes from these general meetings, and material information is disseminated report is presented, which includes investors, analysts and the financial markets, business lines and functional A booklet containing the Request Form, including relevant comments or via SGXNet on a non-selective basis, updates and analysis of the shareholder community. Designed to provide a units are required to be familiar with the Notice of AGM / EGM and Proxy Form queries from shareholders together in a timely and consistent manner. register, highlights of key shareholder convenient repository of information for IPT Mandate as well as the internal will be sent to shareholders, informing with responses from the board and The company’s announcements are engagements for the year as well as investors’ needs, the site includes the policy and procedure, and report IPTs them that the annual report / circular is management. Since 2019, these also uploaded to the company website, market feedback. company’s results announcements to the company for review and approval available online and how to view it. minutes are published on the company www.sembcorp.com, after since our listing in 1998, an archive of by the AC. The Group maintains a However, we are mindful that some website www.sembcorp.com as soon dissemination on SGXNet. For further details on Sembcorp’s the company’s results briefing webcasts, register of IPTs in accordance with the shareholders may prefer to receive a as practicable. communications with its shareholders, downloadable five-year financial data, reporting requirements stipulated by printed copy and this will be provided The financial results release date is please see the Investor Relations chapter a calendar of upcoming events, as well Chapter 9 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. upon request. Dividend policy disclosed at least two weeks prior to on page 102. as pertinent stock information such as Sembcorp is committed to achieving the announcement date via SGXNet. dividend history, share price charts and Information on IPTs for 2019 can be The company’s constitution allows sustainable income and growth to On the date of the announcement, analyst coverage. In addition to the found on pages 273 and 274. shareholders to appoint up to two enhance total shareholder return. the financial statements as well as the Managing Stakeholders company website, Sembcorp uses proxies to attend, speak and vote at The Group’s policy aims to balance accompanying press release and Relationships various platforms to engage different Details on our IPT Mandate can be general meetings on their behalf. cash return to shareholders and presentation slides are released via Engagement with stakeholders. The frequency of the found on our company website. Under the multiple proxy regime, investment for sustaining growth, SGXNet and posted on the company Stakeholders (Principle 13) company’s ongoing engagement with “relevant intermediaries” such as banks, while aiming for an efficient capital website. Thereafter, a briefing or Balancing the needs and interests of its stakeholders varies in accordance Code of Conduct capital markets services licence holders structure. The company strives to teleconference by management is jointly material stakeholders with the platforms used and the topics In maintaining an effective governance that provide custodial services for provide consistent and sustainable held for the media and analysts. The of engagement. and decision-making structure, the securities and the Central Provident Fund ordinary dividend payments to our results briefings and teleconferences Sembcorp adopts an inclusive approach Group Code of Conduct was revised Board (CPF), are allowed to appoint shareholders, and the practice is to are concurrently broadcast ‘live’ via by considering and balancing the needs Dealings in Securities and implemented in 2018. The Group more than two proxies to attend, consider declaring dividends on webcast. Investor relations officers are and interests of material stakeholders. A Policy on Prevention of Insider Trading President & CEO actively references the speak and vote at general meetings. a biannual basis. In the event of a available by email or telephone to Stakeholder engagement is the first key has been implemented to prohibit code in key internal meetings which This will enable indirect investors, material variation in declared dividends answer questions from shareholders and step in determining issues that are dealings in the company’s securities by reinforces its importance among including CPF investors, to be appointed compared to the previous analysts as long as the information material to the company, giving insight our directors and senior management management. All employees and as proxies to participate at general corresponding period, or any decision requested does not conflict with the into the perspective of our stakeholders within a two-week window prior to the directors of the organisation receive meetings. Voting in absentia by mail, not to declare a dividend, the reasons SGX-ST’s rules on fair disclosure. and what they deem important in the announcement of the company’s training on the code and its key policies. facsimile or email is currently not for such will be disclosed in accordance context of their partnership with financial statements for each of the permitted. Such voting methods will with SGX-ST Listing Rule 704(24). Establishing and maintaining regular Sembcorp. The company engages and first three quarters of the financial year, need to be cautiously evaluated for dialogue with shareholders gathers feedback from a diverse range and within one month prior to the feasibility to ensure the integrity of Engagement with Sembcorp employs multiple of stakeholders with the aim of announcement of the company’s the information and that the Shareholders (Principle 12) communication platforms to engage improving our performance and driving full-year financial results. Directors and authenticity of the shareholders’ Regular, effective and fair shareholders. In addition to our results long-term sustainability. employees are advised to be mindful to identities is not compromised. communication with shareholders briefings, the company maintains observe insider trading laws at all times, regular dialogue with our shareholders Our key stakeholders include customers, even when dealing in the company’s The company conducts electronic poll Sembcorp is committed to high through investor-targeted events such employees, financial institutions, securities outside the prohibited trading voting at general meetings for greater standards of corporate transparency as AGMs, roadshows, conferences, site governments and regulators, shareholders period. They are also reminded not to transparency in the voting process. and disclosure. The Group has an visits, group briefings and one-on-one and the investment community, the deal in the company’s securities on Shareholders are informed of the voting investor relations policy which adheres meetings. These platforms offer local community, as well as contractors, short-term considerations. procedures governing such meetings. to fair disclosure principles and opportunities for senior management suppliers, trade unions and industry An independent scrutineer is engaged emphasises active dialogue and and directors to interact first-hand with partners. When assessing our material to review the electronic poll voting engagement with shareholders, shareholders, understand their views, sustainability issues, we identify system and proxy verification process investors and analysts. gather feedback and address concerns. stakeholders in accordance with the 98 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 99 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Corporate Governance Statement Stakeholder group Engagement and communication platforms Topics raised include Summary of Governance Disclosure The Summary of Disclosures, that describes our corporate governance practices with specific reference to disclosure requirements Customers Operational and commercial meetings, presentations and Reliability of products and services in the principles and provisions of the Code which can be found at SGX’s website at rulebook.sgx.com, is set out below. negotiations, surveys, site visits, company activities, Competitive pricing for products customer service hotlines, social media, company websites and services Board Remuneration Shareholder Rights and feedback channels, telephone and email contact Sustainable and integrated energy, Matters Matters and Engagement water and waste solutions Provision Page Provision Page Provision Page Innovation and development of new products and services The Board’s Conduct of Affairs Procedures for Developing Shareholder Rights and Conduct Employees Employee communication sessions, workshops, seminars Talent engagement (Principle 1) Remuneration Policies (Principle 6) of General Meetings (Principle 11) and training sessions, employee appraisal sessions, 1.1 83, 85 6.1 91 11.1 97 – 98 Change management employee committees, social events and activities, 1.2 83 – 86 6.2 91 11.2 97 Benefits design newsletters, intranet and email contact 1.3 84 6.3 91 11.3 85, 97 Health and safety 1.4 84 – 85 6.4 91 11.4 98 Financial Results briefings, presentations and meetings, news Company performance, growth and 1.5 85 11.5 98 institutions releases, stock exchange announcements, company value creation Level and Mix of Remuneration 1.6 86 (Principle 7) 11.6 98 websites, investor relations microsite, telephone and Corporate governance 1.7 86 – 87 7.1 93 – 94 email contact Engagement with Shareholders 7.2 91 – 92 (Principle 12) Board Composition and Guidance Governments Briefings, presentations, committees, conferences, forums, Solutions to meet the needs of 7.3 91 – 93 12.1 98 – 99 (Principle 2) and regulators roundtable and panel discussions, seminars and industries and the community 2.1 88 12.2 98 workshops, site visits, telephone and email contact Regulatory compliance Disclosure on Remuneration 2.2 87 (Principle 8) 12.3 99 Skills transfer and community contributions 2.3 87 8.1 271 – 272 Managing Stakeholders Health and safety 2.4 87 8.2 94 Relationships 2.5 85 8.3 271 – 272 Shareholders and Results briefings, AGMs, investor roadshows, seminars and Company performance, growth and Provision Page the investment forums, investor meetings, site visits, news releases, stock value creation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Accountability community (Principle 3) Engagement with Stakeholders exchange announcements, company websites, investor Governance, ethical business practices and Audit (Principle 13) relations microsite, telephone and email contact and regulatory compliance 3.1 89 Provision Page 13.1 99 – 100 3.2 89 Local community Participation and collaboration in community projects, Community needs 13.2 99 – 100 3.3 89 Risk Management and community activities, company websites, telephone and Social and environmental impact Internal Controls (Principle 9) 13.3 99 email contact Board Membership (Principle 4) 9.1 94 – 95 Contractors, Review and co-ordination meetings, briefings, Safety and regulatory compliance 4.1 89 9.2 95 suppliers, presentations and negotiations, committees, conferences, Company’s long-term viability 4.2 89 trade unions and 4.3 89 Audit Committee (Principle 10) forums, roundtable and panel discussions, seminars and industry partners 10.1 96 workshops, site visits, telephone and email contact 4.4 88 4.5 44 – 48, 90 10.2 96 10.3 96 Board Performance (Principle 5) 10.4 97 5.1 90 10.5 96 5.2 90 100 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019 101 Environmental, Social and Governance Review Investor Relations Sembcorp is committed to ensuring that all capital market players have easy access to clear, reliable and meaningful information on our company in order to make informed investment decisions. In the context of constantly-evolving best practices in investor relations, and share capital or 58% of free float. In disclosure, transparency and corporate embody the spirit of good corporate terms of geographical spread, excluding governance requirements, we aim to governance and transparency. the stake held by Temasek Holdings and provide investors with an accurate, shareholders not identified, our largest coherent and balanced account of the Total Shareholder Return geographical shareholding base was Group’s performance and prospects. Sembcorp Industries’ last traded North America with 39% followed by Sembcorp has a dedicated investor share price in 2019 was S$2.29 and shareholders from Asia and Europe, relations team and communicates with the company ended the year with a which accounted for 30% and 24% of the investing public through multiple market capitalisation of S$4.1 billion. the shares respectively. platforms and channels. These include The company’s share price averaged group briefings to analysts, investors S$2.41 during the year, registering a and the media; one-on-one meetings low of S$2.03 in August and a high of Share Ownership with shareholders and potential S$2.77 in April. Daily turnover averaged by Investor Category investors; investor roadshows as well as 3.4 million shares. the investor relations section of our 49.5% 21.2% company website. In 2019, the challenging operating environment in the offshore and marine Proactive Communication sector continued to weigh on the with the Financial Community earnings of our listed subsidiary In 2019, senior management and the Sembcorp Marine, which also impacted investor relations team actively engaged our share performance. Sembcorp the financial community. We held Industries’ total shareholder return for 12.5%1 one-on-one and group meetings with the year stood at negative 8%. This was shareholders, analysts and potential lower than the Straits Times Index’s 16.8%2 investors. These included meetings during 9% and the MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan ■ Strategic ■ Institutions non-deal roadshows in Singapore, Industrials Index’s 6%. ■ Retail ■ Not identified Tokyo, London, New York, Chicago and As at December 31, 2019 Toronto led by our senior management. For the financial year 2019, an interim Besides roadshows, we also attended dividend of 2 cents per ordinary share the Macquarie ASEAN Conference was declared and paid to shareholders 2019 in Singapore and the inaugural in September 2019. In addition, a final Share Ownership GPF-Bloomberg Sustainable Investing dividend of 3 cents per ordinary share by Geographical Distribution Excluding shares held by the major Forum in Bangkok. We continued to has been proposed, subject to approval shareholder Temasek Holdings and organise site visits to our facilities. In 2019, by shareholders at the coming annual shareholders not identified we organised a tour for analysts to the general meeting to be held in April 2020. Vietnam-Singapore Industrial Parks in Binh Together with the interim dividend, this 39% 30% Duong. The visit provided analysts with would bring our total dividend for 2019 a first-hand look at our industrial parks to 5 cents per ordinary share. and integrated townships in Vietnam. Shareholder Information During the year, we won the gold Our major shareholder Temasek Holdings award for Best Investor Relations at the held 49.5% of our shares at the end of Singapore Corporate Awards 2019, 2019. Institutional shareholders under the category for companies accounted for 21% of our issued share with S$1 billion and above in market capital or 42% of free float, while 7% 24% capitalisation. The award recognises retail shareholders1 and shareholders companies that adopt and implement not identified2 held 29% of issued ■ North America ■ Asia ■ Europe ■ Rest of the World 1 Retail shareholders include private investors, brokers, custodians and corporates As at December 31, 2019 2 Shareholders not identified include mainly shareholders that fall below the threshold of 250,000 shares 102 Sembcorp Industries Annual Report 2019
