CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 This report covers reporting on the Danish Financial Statements Act (99a and 99b) and Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact. MOL NORDIC TANKERS IN BRIEF MOL Nordic Tankers is a chemical tanker operator and ship-owner headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark with offices in Stamford, US, Houston, US and Bogotá, Colombia. As of January 31 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers was acquired by MOL Chemical Tankers Pte. Ltd., the date upon which the company name was changed from Nordic Tankers to MOL Nordic Tankers. The Company employs approximately 65 employees ashore. MOL Nordic Tankers report to the EVP located in Copenhagen, who reports to the CEO of MOL Chemical Tankers located in Singapore. In August 2019, it was announced that a full integration process of MOL Nordic Tankers into MOL Chemical Tankers was initiated and expected to be completed within 2020. The core competence of MOL Nordic Tankers is to manage and operate chemical tankers, with the highest focus on safety and quality. The products we carry range from edible oils, acids, chemicals and other specialized products to lubricating oils and petroleum products. MOL Nordic Tankers’ modern fleet of sophisticated vessels serve our customers worldwide and offer flexibility and reliable service. As per 31 December 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers operated a fleet of 23 bareboat or time-chartered vessels. These vessels are in the segment between 14,000 and 25,000 dwt and all vessels but two are equipped with stainless steel tanks. Most of the vessels have multiple tank segregations, which make them well suited for parcel trading. Furthermore, three of the vessels are iceclass, thereby enabling MOL Nordic Tankers to service trade lanes in the Great Lakes and Baltic Sea all-year round. This highly sophisticated fleet makes it possible to combine cargoes from multiple customers on each vessel voyage. Being able to exploit this flexibility in a way that delivers high customer service is a corner stone in MOL Nordic Tankers’ business model. The cargoes transported by MOL Nordic Tankers’ fleet consist of a wide range of products for industrial use, and efficient and safe handling of the cargoes is a major focus for MOL Nordic Tankers. During 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers’ fleet performed 279 voyages and carried 3.3 million metric tons of cargoes, composed of 20% hydrocarbons, 43% industrial chemicals, 25% vegetable oil and 12% in other categories. 90% of this volume was carried by owned tonnage while third party tonnage carried 10%. MOL Nordic Tankers builds its business on long-term customer relationships and thorough knowledge of the trade lanes where the company is present mainly in the Americas, Europe and in the Trans-Atlantic Trade. The vision of MOL Nordic Tankers is to create exceptional value to stakeholders of MOL Nordic Tankers; owners, customers, tonnage providers, employees, shareholders and society at large. Safety is MOL Nordic Tankers’ first and foremost priority and it is an integral part of the company’s vision, mission, strategy and values. Safety is our license to operate and is embedded in MOL Nordic Tankers’ DNA. MOL Nordic Tankers has a saying: ‘Safety starts with us’, and all employees regardless of title and work responsibilities must at all times comply with MOL Nordic Tankers’ policies and regulations. 1 THE MOL NORDIC TANKERS FOUNDATION Our purpose The sea is our business and in close partnership with our owners and customers, we build the future. There is a sea between our customers and their customers and they need our exceptional services. The chemicals that we transport across short and long distances are also used to build the future. They end up in a long list of products for the construction industry and car manufacturing. We also use chemicals in our everyday lives, as they are part of consumer goods, pharmaceutical products and food. Our vision is to create exceptional value for all our stakeholders, including our customers, our owners, our employees and for society. We strive to create exceptional value through operational excellence, safety performance and by living our values every day. Safety, Team Spirit, Integrity and Can-do Our values are not only words that we print on a poster. We are a company where we truly live our values of Safety, Integrity, Can-do and Team Spirit. That means we have a strong company culture, where we go that extra mile for customers and colleagues while always thinking safety first. 2 CEO STATEMENT Statement from Executive Vice President In early 2019, MOL Chemical Tankers acquired Nordic Tankers and the company changed name to MOL Nordic Tankers and became part of one of the leading chemical tanker companies in the world. We take pride in creating exceptional value to our owners and customers, and well-integrated CSR initiatives are an essential part of our company and strategy to the benefit of our business, employees, stakeholders and the society. Safety is our license to operate and is our top priority in all aspects of our business. During 2019, we continued to have a strong focus on optimizing our safety procedures and finding innovative ways of ensuring safety at all times. This included procedures at sea, on land and in terms on cyber security. In 2019, we continued our work with the Sustainable Development Goals. Based on thorough work, we have mapped three main goals that we consider relevant for our company and industry, and which cover areas that we are able to influence: Good health and well-being (goal 3), Climate action (goal 13) and Life below water (goal 14). During 2020, MOL Nordic Tankers will intensify our CSR work within these three areas, and will continue focusing on the development of our safety procedures. Sincerely, Annette B. Hasenberg Executive Vice President, MOL Nordic Tankers We endorse the United Nations Global Compact. 3 CSR MOL Nordic Tankers’ CSR activities emerge from the core business and strategy. The ongoing CSR initiatives are based on the guiding principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and are related to the following areas: safety, training and personal development, human & labor rights, welfare, environment, climate and anti-corruption. In MOL Nordic Tankers, we continuously strive to improve our performance within these identified areas. The communication with stakeholders about our achievements is transparent and as with everything else in MOL Nordic Tankers, CSR challenges are met with a can-do attitude, handled in a safe manner with integrity and team spirit at heart. MOL Nordic Tankers’ annual CSR report is divided into the following areas, which comply with our company’s overall CSR policies and ongoing business strategy: • UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • The environment • Anti-corruption • Human & labor rights • Social responsibilities • Across all areas 4 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MOL Nordic Tankers supports the SDGs and we are convinced that the goals pose a useful framework for our company’s ongoing CSR work. In 2018, we initiated the preliminary work on aligning MOL Nordic Tankers’ CSR efforts according to the SDGs. With point of departure in our business strategy and CSR policies, we have pointed out three goals that cover our current CSR initiatives. Below is an overview of some of the relevant initiatives that MOL Nordic Tankers currently work on. The initiatives will be further explained throughout this report. • Goal 3 Good health and well-being MOL Nordic Tankers works actively to improve general health and well-being. Continued reduction of discharges to the sea as well as reduction of air emission will result in an improved environment for the benefit of the general health. MOL Nordic Tankers is further setting requirements for suppliers within ship design, construction and scrapping to respect labor rights and safety practices. • Goal 13 Climate action MOL Nordic Tankers is firmly committed to reduce CO2 emissions from ships. By improved energy efficiency within our operation and by setting requirements for suppliers within ship design and construction for lowor zero-carbon ships, a reduction of GHG emission can be achieved. • Goal 14 Life below water MOL Nordic Tankers supports initiatives that protect the oceans such as the Ballast Water Convention, bio fouling measures as well as the MARPOL convention, to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources in a respectful manner. For 2020, MOL Nordic Tankers’ aim is to continue to develop our work within these three areas. 5 THE ENVIRONMENT The shipping industry is constantly working on reducing its environmental footprint, and in collaboration with industry colleagues and stakeholders, MOL Nordic Tankers wish to actively participate in the reduction of emission. Further, when operating at sea, safety should always be the first priority to minimize risks of accidents; an accident can cause major damage to people, the environment and the health of the sea. Therefore, the company have formulated relevant policies and initiated projects enhancing MOL Nordic Tankers’ contribution to a safe and eco-friendly industry. Recycling MOL Nordic Tankers operates a modern fleet and therefore, the company does not recycle vessels. Instead, the vessels are sold for continuous trading and replaced with newer ships. However, in 2017, the company introduced a policy for recycling of vessels in case of relevant in the long term. Should recycling of a vessel be considered, MOL Nordic Tankers will through a comprehensive investigation and screening process ensure that any recycling is completed in full compliance with the Hong Kong convention. MOL Nordic Tankers will ensure that before any agreement on recycling a vessel, the nominated yard must meet the following requirements, at a minimum: • Comply with the Hong Kong convention • Produce an Inventory Hazardous Material certificate issued by Class (IACS) • Issue a Ship Recycling Plan • Issue a Green Recycling certificate A goal for MOL Nordic Tankers is to maintain a modern fleet. As of December 31 2019, our company’s average fleet age was 9.6 years. MOL Nordic Tankers are presently considering a new building program to renew the fleet further and consequently improve the environmental performance in general. CO2 emission Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) MOL Nordic Tankers are committed to monitor, review and improve our environmental performance. MOL Nordic Tankers measures the environmental performance by using the voluntary IMO guidelines of ship Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI). • EEOI for 2019 was 23.7 gram CO2/ton cargo/nautical mile A goal for 2020 is to continue our strong focus on our environmental performance. 6 Responsible tank cleaning In 2012, MOL Nordic Tankers initiated the implementation of a new tank cleaning system by using spectrometers on MOL Nordic Tankers’ vessels. Applying spectrometers, we openly share particulate contents of tank washing analysis with customers, surveyors and terminals. The benefits of using the equipment are in short: High focus on safety for the officers and the crew onboard the vessels A decrease of the number of man entries in tanks for wall wash and inspections A reduction of cleaning time and unnecessary emission of CO2. A reduction of the amount of excessive cleaning chemicals needed and the disposal hereof A reduction in the use of fresh water for tank cleaning and the disposal hereof A reduction in cleaning time may also lead to a reduction in heating of the cleaning water and consequently a reduction of fuel used and emission of CO2. To illustrate the cleaning process, we have designed posters that are to be found onboard our vessels and in our offices. A goal for 2020 is to keep developing on tank cleaning safety procedures with the use of spectrometers. Further, our aim is to extend the use of spectrometers to as many business partners as possible as well as to encourage our colleagues within the industry to move in the same direction. Responsibility at sea MOL Nordic Tankers has formulated a Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) work procedure, which states that: “MOL Nordic Tankers is committed to conduct activities in a way, so that we ensure promotion of the safety and health of our employees both ashore and on board the vessels, and at the same time focus on conservation and protection for the environment.” The procedure includes the work towards a “zero oil spill to sea” by coordination of efforts of those ashore and on board vessels plus working towards a long-term goal of “zero accidents and incidents” by using KPIs to monitor performance. Generally, MOL Nordic Tankers will comply with industry legislation that refers to health, safety and environment protection while focusing on global activities and ensuring continual environmental improvements through open dialogue with clients/customers. Their feedback will be used to revise existing procedures related to health, safety and environment issues. 7 MOL Nordic Tankers together with our technical manager Dania Ship Management, actively collaborate with the Danish Ministry for Energy, Utilities and the Climate plus the Danish Technological Institute to develop a method for remote determination of sulphur content in fuel oil on board ships. The project is named “Remote sensing of sulphur and particle emission from ships” and was commenced in 2016. A permanent sniffer has been installed on the Great Belt Bridge, which will be able to check the sulphur content in the exhaust gas emissions from the ships passing underneath and thereby, monitor the sulphur content in the fuel oil used onboard. The requirement for sulphur content in board fuel oil in the North Sea, Baltic Sea and US Territory is a maximum 0.1 %. The role of MOL Nordic Tankers in this regard is during the trial period to report whenever one of the company’s vessels will pass the Great Belt Bridge in order to monitor the exhaust gas fan and eventually be able to do the sulphur measuring from the bridge. On an annual basis, MOL Nordic Tankers reports its fuel consumption on vessels to Danish Shipping. The fuel oil consumption can easily be converted to actual CO2 emissions, which, together with information about cargo intake and sailing distance, can be converted to CO2 emissions per transport work. As of January 2018, the new EU legislation, Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV), regarding CO2 emissions from vessels entered into force and supplements the reporting to Danish Shipping. In 2017, MOL Nordic Tankers implemented systems to ensure reporting is done in full compliance with the new legislation. As of January 1 2020, new IMO legislation has lowered the allowed sulphur content in fuel oil worldwide from 3.5 % to 0.5 %. The IMO legislation, the so-called 2020 sulphur cap, sets two ways to meet the requirement. Either purchasing and burning compliant fuel with maximum 0.5 % sulphur content or installing a scrubber which can clean the exhaust gas for sulphur before emission into the environment. MOL Nordic Tankers have decided to purchase compliant fuel, which is in line with our ambition to protect the environment, as this method is considered, in the company, to be more climate friendly compared to the alternative. 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption has been identified as one of the world’s biggest challenges when it comes to reduction of poverty, which is one of the UN millennium goals. The UN has sharpened their focus on corruption as it has a negative impact on countries, communities and businesses impending economic growth and sustainable development. MOL Nordic Tankers are committed to ensure adherence to high legal and ethical standards in addition to all applicable laws, since we are aware of the potential corruption risk there is in our sector. This is reflected in all aspects of the operation and integrity must be present in all our dealings. Consequently, the directors, officers and employees of the company must refrain from offering, promising, giving, demanding or accepting an advantage as a motivation for an illegal or unethical action. Recently, MOL Nordic Tankers updated its anti-corruption policy. The policy states: “Section 1 Purpose 1.1 This MOL Nordic Tankers Group Anti-Corruption Policy (this ”Policy”) outlines the level of information MOL Nordic Tankers is permitted to exchange with competitors, pool members and partners of pools in which we participate from time to time. 1.2 Failure to comply with this Policy could result in: 1.2.1 Breach of Competition Laws resulting in heavy fines for MOL Nordic Tankers, and possibly personal fines and criminal liability for any MOL Nordic Tankers personnel involved. 1.2.2 Loss of reputation and customers, as the authorities may publish any competition law compliance breach to the market.” MOL Nordic Tankers use an anti-corruption e-learning program developed in cooperation with MACN. The training has been completed in the organization before however, during Q1 of 2019, all employees completed the anti-corruption e-learning training program. The training is mandatory for all employees, regardless of how many times they previously have completed the training. During 2020, MOL Nordic Tankers will continue to have a strong focus on anti-corruption and training in this regard. Anti-money laundering In 2016, MOL Nordic Tankers implemented an Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Policy and Guidelines that further elaborated on the policy statement set out in our Code of Conduct, updated in 2019. The Code of Conduct states that: “MOL Nordic Tankers will not participate in any form of money laundering, and no member of management or any employee may facilitate, support, directly or indirectly, any payment or transfer of money, which is likely to constitute money laundering.” The responsibility to avoid MOL Nordic Tankers getting involved in any money laundering or dubious transaction applies to all employees and involves all departments and throughout 9 the entire activity chain from the choice of customer or business partner all the way to the execution of payments. The policy and guidelines include a financial background check of customers/vendors plus a sanctions background check. Whistleblowing and open reporting MOL Nordic Tankers have two reporting systems by which employees ashore and at sea plus external parties have the opportunity to report violations and policies of law. MOL Nordic Tankers have a Whistleblowing Policy, which states: “The purpose of this Whistleblower Policy is: (a) to introduce and implement an online whistleblower reporting system, which enables all employees of the MOL Nordic Tankers group as well as external stakeholders (the “Whistleblower(s)”) on a voluntary basis to report any serious and sensitive concerns, which could have an adverse impact on MOL Nordic Tankers’ operations and performance and/or a significant impact on a person’s life or heath, as set out in Section 2 of this Whistleblower Policy, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations (the “WB System”) and (b) to enable MOL Nordic Tankers to take timely and appropriate action in response to any such reporting submitted through the WB System.” MOL Nordic Tankers’ WBS is visible and assessable through our website. Besides a whistleblowing system, MOL Nordic Tankers has an open reporting system for non-compliance issues and other marine violations in general concerning Health, Safety, Quality and Environment. The open reporting system should be applied in case of breaches of safety procedures, accidents/incidents related to onboard work at any kind of spill or environmental non-compliance. Open reporting is available through MOL Nordic Tankers’ website. 10 HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Our ongoing strategy includes a strong focus on human and labor rights, as the safety of our employees and business partners is our first priority at all times. Ensuring acceptable working conditions can be a challenge for companies such as MOL Nordic Tankers and by operating in an international and cost-competitive environment, MOL Nordic Tankers is fully aware of the risk and hence the importance of ensuring acceptable working conditions across all areas. As an international ship owner, we deal with suppliers from all over the world on a daily basis and therefore pose a series of requirements on all suppliers to line up in regards to health and safety, labor rights and environmental control. Navigating Human Rights During 2019, the CSR Committee of Danish Shipping formulated ‘A Guide to Human Rights Due Diligence and Salient Human Rights Issues in Shipping’. The guide is developed by the Danish Institute for Human Rights for Danish Shipping and several workshops with participants from global shipping companies have been conducted, including a representative from MOL Nordic Tankers. The guide is publicly available on the Danish Shipping’s website. About the contents, it is stated: “In this document you can find information on the process of setting human rights commitments as well as establishing due diligence procedures to identify, assess, address and report on human rights issues. Based on desktop research, internal and external interviews and a workshop together with representatives from Danish Shipping members, a number of human rights issue areas have been identified as the most salient for the Danish shipping industry, and in this document each of these issues are described, and suggested mitigating measures are provided.” Further, we refer to our owners, MOL Chemical Tankers’ policies on human rights. MOL Chemical Tankers has formulated a Global Compliance Policy outlining the company’s stands on human rights article 5: Rules of Conduct, section 2: “Respect human rights and refuse to permit discrimination and harassment (..)”. Specifically, MOL Nordic Tankers complies with the abovementioned human rights regulations in multiple areas of our business. For example, and in compliance with the Human Rights guidelines from Danish Shipping, the company has a recycling policy that requires compliance with the Hong Kong convention and the policy includes concrete steps ensuring compliance with the regulations (for more info, please refer to page 6). In continuation of the MOLCT Group policy regarding discrimination and harassment, MOLNT holds a diversity policy outlining the company’s policies on the specific area. Further, the company’s policies on anti-corruption and anti-money laundering also address human rights issues. It is not the goal to draw up a policy on human rights in 2020, as MOL Nordic Tankers estimates the policy of MOL Chemical Tankers and the collaboration with Danish Shipping together with the additional policies mentioned above to be adequate. 11 Diversity policy In 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers formulated a ‘diversity and inclusion policy’ covering all relevant aspects within the matter applying to all employees and managers regardless of title, position and location. The policy states: “MOL Nordic Tankers (MOLNT) recognizes and celebrates the value and contribution each individual brings to our workplace, and appreciates the value of attracting and retaining employees from different backgrounds. MOLNT is committed to creating a working environment which is fair and flexible; promotes personal and professional growth and benefits from the capabilities of its diverse workforce.” We persistently monitor and review our policy to ensure that equality and diversity are continually promoted in our organization. Gender diversity As part of our recruitment strategy, we aim to have a well-diversified organization both in regards to gender, age, nationality and culture. We are convinced that a diverse workforce is more creative and achieves better results. It is, however, MOL Nordic Tankers’ policy at all times to select the candidate with the strongest qualifications. As of December 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers’ employee gender division numbers were as follows (headcounts only): Employees Managers by gender by gender Female Female 29% 18 % Male Male 71% 82% Further, as of December 2019, the number of female Executive Managers was 50%. The comparative figures for 2018 were 33% female employees, 31% female managers and 66% female Executive Managers. The Board of Directors As of December 2019, the MOL Nordic Tankers Board of Directors included five members; one female and four males. The company’s target for gender diversity in the Board of Directors is that the composition should reflect the diversity of the rest of the company and based on this, MOLNT finds this composition of 20% female and 80% male representatives within the Board to be reasonable taking the general gender balance of the company into account. 12 It is the company’s conclusion that the gender division within the management groups (nonexecutive and executive) is reasonable due to the overall employee gender diversity numbers of the company. Charter for more women in shipping In 2019, The Danish Shipping Association introduced a new initiative called ‘More women in shipping’. The purpose of the charter is to commit Danish shipping companies to actively support gender balance within the industry, enhancing equal opportunities for all. In January 2020, MOLNT Executive Vice President, Annette Hasenberg signed the charter joining a strong group of large Danish shipping companies. A goal for 2020 is to increase the work towards gender balance within the industry. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Our People, Communication & Culture department Our People, Communication & Culture department manages the human capital of MOL Nordic Tankers and hereby supports our business strategy, vision and mission. To achieve our vision of creating exceptional value we must attract the right people with the right mindset and attitude. Shipping is a people’s business and people are our most valuable asset. Our HR and communication activities are consolidated in our department ‘People, Communication & Culture’, as we consider communication as the key to the human mind. Communication is essential in guiding and managing our people towards the achievement of our common goals, and storytelling creates pride and a common understanding of why we are here and where we are heading. Our strong company culture, based on our values, guides our behavior and makes sure our people work in accordance with our mission and vision. Specifically, the department works to achieve the following: People our human capital To us, skills are paramount but personality counts even more. Our people are our most important asset and we continuously encourage, challenge and invest in the development of 13 our diverse workforce. We combine digital solutions with the knowledge and personalities of our people, safeguarding innovative and long lasting results to the benefit of our business. Together we create exceptional value. Communication where our business begins Communication plays a key role in everything we do and it is the main element in knowledge sharing across our organization. The way we communicate influences the quality in our workflows and creates a common frame of reference towards our goals. We communicate our purpose strategically to sustain strong relations around the world. Communication is the glue in our business. Culture our key to success We take pride in having a company culture built on a foundation of respect, openness and integrity, and we invest in our culture every day. Our culture evolves simultaneously with our business and society always with safety, team spirit, integrity and can-do at heart. Transparent and honest communication make room for our active feedback culture where every employee has a say regardless of position, title and seniority. Our culture thrives when good communication, trust and motivated people meet. MOL Nordic Tankers Senior HR Specialist states: “We believe that only with a strong company culture we are able to build bridges to our customers and operate second to none. Our department focuses on shaping strong ambassadors that are first movers within safety and take pride in living our values. Our values represent the way we think, feel and act, and we strive to achieve the best practice to the benefit of our customers. Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees with the right mindset is essential for MOL Nordic Tankers in the aim of delivering exceptional value to our business partners.” MOL Nordic Tankers Executive Management Following the change of ownership, during 2019, MOL Nordic Tankers changed its Executive Management setup. As of August 2019, the Group went from three members to two members (CEO and EVP). Reporting to the MOLCT CEO located in the headquarters in Singapore, the MOLNT EVP also works closely together with the newly appointed Senior Management Group. MOL Nordic Tankers Senior Management Group The Senior Management members and the number hereof have changed in recent years in accordance to our business developments and organizational restructurings. As of the end of 2019, the company formed a new Senior Management consisting of five members, representing our commercial, operational, financial and organizational interests. With a strong focus on our human capital, including human and labor rights, it is necessary that these interests are included into our overall strategy and business plans. Therefore, it is 14 essential that this priority is clearly balanced within the composition of our Senior Management members. Training and future planning Personal development and involvement of employees are key focus areas for MOL Nordic Tankers. One way we fulfill these goals is by living the corporate values to maintain a strong and transparent company culture, where employees feel engaged and motivated. In 2016, MOL Nordic Tankers initiated a corporate project named One Exceptional Team (OET). Initially, the aim of the project was to streamline processes and optimize communication across work areas, departments and offices. Along the way, the OET mindset became an integral part of our culture. From the very beginning, it was important that the changes occurring from OET were initiated by the employees instead of by management. In 2019, key focus areas in MOL Nordic Tankers’ OET work included a continued focus on optimizing internal processes together with an increased internal knowledge of MOL Nordic Tankers’ customers and the working processes in this regard. Further, we had a strong focus on improving our knowledge of our customers’ needs, hence, enabling our organization to deliver an even more targeted service to customers. For 2020, the goal is to continuously optimize work processes and further empower Nordic Tankers’ employees in decision-makings while also proceeding our work in relation to customer knowledge. Trainees and interns MOL Nordic Tankers supports the Danish shipping trainee education managed by the Danish Shipping Academy under the Danish Ship-owners’ Association. As of January 2020, MOL Nordic Tankers employs one trainee, one graduating in the summer of 2019 and one graduating in the summer of 2020. The trainees rotate within different departments during their internship and they are teamed up with an internal mentor, who gives them specific and relevant knowledge and introduces them to the shipping industry. Whenever relevant, MOL Nordic Tankers takes in interns from the study program International Shipping and Trade from Copenhagen Business School. MOL Nordic Tankers also employs student assistants on a regular basis across various departments, where they are trusted their own tasks and responsibilities to strengthen their competences and improve their chances of entering into the labor market after their graduation. When possible, we offer the student assistants permanent employments upon their graduation. This arrangement secures continued growth of MOL Nordic Tankers, whereas the students in return get valuable work experience, business knowledge and possibly the opportunity to obtain their first full-time job, which otherwise might be difficult in the current employment market. In this regard, MOL Nordic Tankers helps the employees strengthening their own market value. We see the arrangement as a win-win situation. MOL Nordic Tankers employs employees in the beginning of their careers including trainees, interns, student assistants and newly graduates. These employees can contribute with valuable, innovative and digital insights and they supplement our well-experienced employees in an advantageous way for the benefit of the entire company. 15 Together we build the future. ACROSS ALL AREAS Cyber security awareness In MOL Nordic Tankers, we see cybercrime as a threat to our entire value chain, as customers, stakeholders, employees, business partners and society potentially would be impacted of a cyberattack against MOL Nordic Tankers. To cope with the rising threat of cybercrime, in 2017, MOL Nordic Tankers initiated an online cyber security training program targeted all employees. In 2018, we expanded the training program to also include GDPR training, to create awareness on how we ensure GDPR compliance at all times. Going forward, all employees must complete the cyber security training on a regular basis. A goal for 2020 is to continue a strong focus on cybercrime by continuing to keep developing our IT safety procedures while also ensuring that all employees are well equipped and informed of current threats. Office safety MOL Nordic Tankers’ Work Environment Committee consists of two members from the organization and a representative from Senior Management. The Committee structure meets the requirements of the Danish Act of Cooperation on Health and Safety and all members have completed the mandatory working environment education. 16 The committee members meet several times a year to ensure that our company complies with health and safety requirements in the offices. Social responsibilities outside the office Every year, MOL Nordic Tankers carefully considers how to allocate external donations to ensure valuable social outcomes of these. In 2019, we made a donation for, among others, the Danish Cancer Society. MOL Nordic Tankers has several times donated to the organization, as the company argues that the Danish Cancer Society is a non-political organization, which concern many Danish citizens. A goal for 2020 is to continue to support organizations that we find valuable for society. 17 MOL NORDIC TANKERS MOVING FORWARD Being an ambitious company, we constantly strive to strengthen our CSR performance and initiatives based on the guiding principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). During 2019, we developed on several CSR initiatives relevant to the UNGC. We look forward to continuing our work concerning safety, human & labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption during 2020. 18
