COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2020 To: 2021 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 10/12/2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Vijayadeep Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Pradeep Man Vaidya Chairman and Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: • We perform multicultural program to respect each other’s values and expression of lifestyle. • We conducted workshop among work force on basic right of people basically in the field of professional career. • To continue the practice in right of freedom of opinion and expression by allowing labors and employee to present their thoughts. • As per our commitment to zero tolerance to harassment, we have ensured safe working environment for all workers. We make sure that if any of ours staffs has to stay late, we escort him/her. • To focus on improving safety measure and technique, upgrade operational procedures and system, we have provided upgraded safety standard in our factory. • To conduct a session during company annual meet day for entire staffs of the company in compliance with GMP staff training and development guideline. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: • To deliver safe and sound working environment to labors by complying all the safety measures, continuous focus on safety measures and timely health checkups has been organized. • To comply all the legal rules and regulations related to labor Act 2048, we have implemented changes made in labor Act. • Yearly, we organized recreational activities like Futsal and Social gathering program to motivate team. • To address the labour issues in systematic manner, point of collective bargain has been arranged every 6 months. • To ensure that company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor, our Human resource team listen to employee complaints and views periodically. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: • Well managed dumping site has been established to take care of waste management. • We conduct group cleaning session time and again to reinforce the feeling that to keep surrounding clean is everyone’s job. • Recycled that used material like glass bottles into usable gardening pot. • Loop system in water circulation makes water bacteria free. • Train the staff each year for better understanding of the Environment and Quality Management System (EQMS) and took part in society cleanliness program organized by local people. • Implantation of Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) to reduce potential for pollution of receiving waters and for effective management of the effluent water. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: • Create awareness among marketing representative (MR) for practice of anti-corruption medical profession while giving training to MRs and conducting meetings. • To support National efforts to reduce corruption in Nepal by participation in various programs. • Represent views of large industry in association to stand against bureaucratic corruption. • To create awareness among stakeholders in anticorruption at own office, we have followed strict government rule which was audited by third party for this year. • To create awareness among stakeholders in anti-corruption and governance issues each year at Annual General Meeting and seminars. • To start a concept of anti-corruption at own office, we have followed strict governance rule which was audited by third party for this year. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • Zero record of any mental or physical harassment in workplace. • Promoting gender equality by promoting competent female in higher corporate position. • Performed three free health camps to increase awareness in people. • Productivity has been increased by 15% for this year which is result of training and development session. • Employees involvement in different associations as right of freedom of association have been found to be 40% out of total employees. Associations such as Medical Association, Pharmacy Association. • This year we conducted more than 5 sessions in training and development program and result was higher level of employee satisfaction.
