Tomorrow’s knowledge environments ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge Together with academia, industry and the community, we develop and manage sustainable and attractive knowledge environments. In this way we strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge and create value for both our owner and our ­customers. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 1 Contents INTRODUCTION 5 YEAR IN BRIEF This is Akademiska Hus 3 Year in brief 4 Statement by the President 6 Business intelligence and trends 8 Market summary 10 Strategy and targets 12 OUR VALUE PROPOSITION Our four essential areas 18 Value-adding knowledge environments 20 Customised properties and facilities 20 Tomorrow’s knowledge environments 25 22 Services to centres of education 30 Resource efficient operations 32 Responsible relationships 35 Caring for people 38 CERTIFICATION ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing42 Property valuation 45 Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants 46 Risks and Risk management 47 Corporate Governance Report 51 Board of Directors 58 Executive Management 59 Other information 60 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 28 Income Statements 62 Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 63 Statement of financial position 66 Changes in equity 70 Statements of Cash Flows 72 AN INNOVATIVE YEAR Notes74 Certification105 Audit Report 106 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes  111 GRI index 121 Assurance Report 124 OTHER Five-year summary 125 32 Key figures 126 Definitions128 Information and addresses 129 About the Annual Report 2019 OUR CLIMATE The audited Annual Report comprises pages 41–104. Our sustainability initiatives are incorporated in the RESPONSIBILITY ­Annual Report and presented in line with GRI Standards. The Sustainability Report comprises the pages listed on page 111 and has undergone a cursory audit. The Sustain­ ability Report also includes Akademiska Hus’ Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with chapter 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2 INTRODUCTION With a focus on sustainability and innovation we create attractive knowledge environments “In 2019, our innovation strategy was implemented in reality. This achievement can be seen in an array of innovation and development projects that are all advances in line with our mission – to strengthen Sweden, ­together with our customers, as a n­ ation of knowledge, along with our goal to ­become completely climate neutral.” KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON President 91 SEK billion in total AA property value Standard & Poor’s long-­term rating, Stable outlook, September 2019 61% 13 P-1 3.3 Market share within SEK billion in Moody’s college and university project portfolio short-term rating, properties December 2019 Million square metres rentable space AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 3 YEAR IN BRIEF 2019 – an eventful year A new co-working concept, a high-profile building completed in Linköping and a investment worth billions of SEK in Gothenburg are just a few of the many features of 2019. A year when our innovation initiatives gain momentum and increase the pace to achieve our ambitious climate targets. Billions of SEK invested in the Medicinareberget Campus in Gothenburg We are investing about SEK 1.8 billion in a new 32,000 square-metre building that will enable the University of Gothenburg to gather large parts of its Faculty of Science operations in a single location. The building will also serve as a key element for continued development at Medicinareberget into an international Life science cluster, where academia and the business community can meet. The project is expected to be completed in the spring of 2023. Art investments with the Public Art Agency of Sweden Beginning in 2019, Akademiska Hus will invest at least SEK 10 million annually in art at Sweden’s colleges and universities. The initiative is part of an in-depth collaboration with Public Art Agency ­Sweden, which will result in a new approach to the role of art in the development of attractive campuses. Construction of more student housing in Uppsala In March, we began construction of 108 new apartments at Ultuna that will provide campus-based housing to 132 undergraduate and graduate students. Solar panels will be placed on the roof that will cover a large portion of the building’s energy needs. In the spring of 2020 occupancy is expected to begin and we are investing approximately SEK 193 million in the apartments. The project involves the conversion of a laboratory and is an example of how we can preserve and remodel existing buildings, instead of building new ones. The initiative will make Uppsala more attractive as a student town and help the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences to cover its estimated student housing needs at Ultuna for the coming years. PROFIT TREND SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Property management income 6,217 6,117 5,806 5,666 5,646 Self-driving buses on Campus Valla in Linköping Net operating income 4,121 3,938 3,829 3,667 3,740 Campus Valla is being used as a test bed for self-driving buses. The purpose of the “Ride the future” project is to test how selfChange in value, properties 3,872 2,585 4,979 3,682 2,655 driving buses can become a part of sustainable mobility solutions Change in value, in the modern city. The initiative is being conducted as a collabo­ financial instruments -503 -360 -242 -241 165 rative effort involving Akademiska Hus, Linköping Municipality, Profit before tax 6,957 5,818 8,311 6,714 6,141 Linköping University, RISE, Science Park Mjärdevi, Transdev Sweden, VTI and the Östgötatrafiken bus line. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 4 YEAR IN BRIEF New co-working concept launched We are strengthening our offering of services by launching a national concept for co-working, makerspace, learning lab and other flexible meeting places. Conditions will thereby be created in which completely new ways of researching, working and studying can thrive in our campus-based premises. Several initiatives are underway around the country. In the autumn of 2019, “A Working Lab – Johanneberg Science Park” opened at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. New gold standard building completed at Linköping University Sweden’s first virtual campus in Örebro In August, the Student Building (Studenthuset) opened – Campus Valla’s The campus in Örebro will be the first in the country to have a digital new central hub that gathers all service functions for students and a twin. Together with the University, we digitally scanned the campus, modern library in a single location. The building meets the requireboth inside and out, which makes the initiative the largest of its kind ments for a Gold rating according to the Miljöbyggnad environmental in Sweden. The scanning allows the buildings to be experienced vircertification system. Construction began in May 2017 and we have tually, as well as on site where the physical room is merged and invested about SEK 460 million in the 16,100 square-metre buildings. strengthened with the digital twin via AR technology in apps, phones The Student Building is a house of possibilities for studies and work, and glasses. The digital data from the scan will also be used for edwith 1,000 new study areas and innovative learning environments. ucational and research purposes at Örebro University and enable the premises to be operated in completely new and sustainable ways. The project is part of Örebro Campus Lab and the cooperation agreement that Akademiska Hus and Örebro University signed in the fall of 2018 with the objective of making the university the most digitalised and sustainable centre of education in Sweden. Grand opening of our largest solar panel initiative In September, a grand opening celebration was held for 5,462 square metres of new solar panels at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences in Uppsala. The initiative is the largest in the country in renewable energy for Akademiska Hus to date and an important component in the effort to achieve our vision for zero carbon footprint. Akademiska Hus issues green bond In June we issued our first green bond. Interest in investing in sustainable projects that strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge was great and the issuance was for SEK 1,500 million. The settlement proceeds were used to fund projects such as two Akademiska Hus construction ­projects which has now been completed. Both achieved gold rating in the Miljöbyggnad certifications system – “A Working Lab”, the office and innovation arena in Johanneberg Science Park at Chalmers in Gothenburg, and the ­Student Building, Campus Valla’s new central hub at Linköping U ­ niversity. Solar cell initiatives and energy efficiency projects around the country at several of Sweden’s colleges and universities have been funded through the green bond. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 5 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT Collaboration and innovation are our path forward Innovation, the climate challenge, digitalisation from a customer perspective and student accommodation on campus have been high on the agenda for Akademiska Hus during the year. “Collaboration with our customers and other participants has been the key to taking a major step forward in these matters” says President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson. In 2019, we have achieved a number of advances that are in line ­ umanisten building at the University of Gothenburg, where we H with our goal to become completely climate neutral and with completed a 32,000 square-metre redevelopment and extension our mission – to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge – project that enables the Faculty of Arts to co-locate the majority together with our c­ ustomers. of its activities. Of our projects in progress, the Albano Campus is the largest – REINVESTMENT IN STABLE MARKETS it extends from Stockholm University in the north, via Royal Insti­ The commercial property market has performed well in 2019, tute of Technology over to Hagastaden, with Karolinska Institutet buoyed by the robust economy combined with continued low to the west. I am proud of the project's profound ambition regard­ interest rates. Interest in community properties which offer ing sustainability and that this is the first campus to be certified to long contractual terms remains strong. Citylab standards. During the year we had positive changes in property values of We are continuing to focus on creating more student housing SEK 3,872 million, which along with investments for the year adjacent to campuses. At Royal Institute of Technology, 230 of SEK 3,266 million resulted in a property value of more than apartments are now completed with room for 430 undergraduate SEK 91 billion. The changes in the value of the property port­ and graduate students. folio are higher than the previous year, which had a major im­ pact on profit for the year which was SEK 5,658 million. THE PATH TOWARDS CLIMATE NEUTRALITY The majority of our cash flow is reinvested in our projects To achieve climate neutrality, we continue to focus on renewable and for the next few years we see a continued strong need for energy through initiatives such as large-scale installation of solar investments. Our approved and planned projects at year-end panels. We are also exploring other types of energy for future in­ amounted to a total of SEK 13,400 million. vestments. One important decision that was made in 2019 is to certify all new construction according to gold rating in the Miljö­ PROJECTS THAT STRENGTHEN CAMPUSES byggnad certification system and all major renovation projects During the year we completed several projects, such as the according to silver rating. New construction and major renova­ ­student building at Linköping University where we invested tion projects of student housing should fulfill the criteria for silver in a new on-campus central hub. Another example is the new rating in the Miljöbyggnad certification system at a minimum and formal certification is encouraged. We issued our first green bond during the year with great ­success. The issue proceeds will be used in accordance with Akademiska Hus’ green framework. I am very proud that Cicero, “ I am very proud that Cicero, an an independent auditor, awarded our green framework the high­ est possible rating level — dark green. We take our responsibility independent auditor, awarded seriously which is why we fully support and base our initiatives on UN Global Compacts and its principles on human rights, la­ our green framework the highest bour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. possible rating level — dark green.” AN INNOVATIVE YEAR We are in a transformation phase where no one knows exactly what the property and education industries of the future will look KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON President like. What we do know is that they both face sweeping changes as­ sociated with digitalisation. To equip ourselves and to ensure our future relevance, we need to understand the outside world and be AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 6 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT “We are continuing to focus on creating more student housing adjacent to campuses.” KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON President an agile organisation that is able to act quickly when necessary. which reason a large portion of our innovation and develop­ For the past few years Akademiska Hus has worked based on an ment projects are aimed at these areas. Collaborative projects innovation strategy aimed at making us more mobile in areas in the property industry are becoming increasingly important. such as energy, technology and learning environments. One good example is Accessy – a common solution for digital In 2019, the innovation strategy was implemented through access to properties. We have also begun a major upgrade of the an array of innovation and development projects. Many of digital infrastructure in our properties. This initiative enables these projects are associated in one way or another with “A us to improve our management and operation process while Working Lab” (AWL), our new office building and innovation creating increased customer value through higher facilities arena at Johanneberg Science Park on the Chalmers campus in ­utilisation and better user experiences. Gothenburg. We created a building here on the absolute cutting One issue for the future in the wake of digitalisation is infor­ edge with respect to energy, technology and learning environ­ mation security. The risks increase as we as individuals and our ments. It is also noteworthy that the campus in Örebro will be properties become more connected. We will manage these risks the first in the country to have a digital twin. on an ongoing basis and address the issues wisely. NEW CONCEPT FOR CO-WORKING ON CAMPUS CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT WITH MORE PLAYERS Co-working as a service is rapidly expanding in the office Our mission is to provide Swedish colleges and universities ­market. In 2019 we broadened our offering of services by with the best possible conditions for education and research. launching a national concept and brand for co-working, maker­ Campuses are developing more and more to become platforms space and other flexible on-campus meeting places. for an array of functions, players and services. This is an excit­ With AWL we promote completely new ways of working, ing development in which we create attractive knowledge studying and conducting research in our campus-based premises. ­environments through collaborative efforts and design our Our first site was Chalmers, which opened in the autumn of 2019. spaces in a new way to increase the added value for everyone In 2020 we will also launch the concept in other locations such as who is active on campus. Together with our customers we are the Umeå Campus and Solna Campus, at Karolinska Institutet. taking many small steps which together enable us to fulfil our mission and achieve our vision – to strengthen Sweden as a PROPERTY MANAGEMENT WITH RAPID PACE ­nation of knowledge. OF DEVELOPMENT The digitalisation of society and demands for sustainability Kerstin Lindberg Göransson have a strong impact on management of our properties, for President AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 7 BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE AND TRENDS Global megatrends that effect all of us In a rapidly changing world, we need to address global trends in order to successfully ­navigate the challenges and find our path forward. The global megatrends impact all ­communities and affect the university world and the property industry more than ever. The development within digitalisation and the changed climate conditions are two of the trends that influence our strategies and goals, and thereby our daily activities. CLIMATE CHANGE that has been developed where property owners, either directly The science is clear – climate change will impact living conditions or in collaboration with external participators, develop “space as on earth and have a profound effect on its ecosystem and balance. a service” as an added value offering to their customers. Property The path forward to reverse the trend and address the climate owners currently play an increasingly important role as com­ threat is currently extremely uncertain and major responsibility munity participants and urban builders, with the potential to rests on both industry and individuals where global decisions will contribute to the digital infrastructure of cities and create the be crucial. History will remember 2019 as the year when many smart cities of the future through innovative solutions and new people, through the commitment and drive of a young generation, technology. Here, the ability to work in value networks consisting united and displayed their dissatisfaction all over the world. of many players is becoming increasingly important. A growing Over the years to come, climate change is expected to affect challenge in the wake of digitalisation is that the large data quan­ the property industry in many different ways. The resilience of tities make data protection increasingly important. The need for current holdings to extreme precipitation and rising water levels, data to be available at any time and anywhere also increases the changed temperatures and access to water, is becoming increas­ risk of unauthorised dissemination of data. ingly central and also needs to shape future construction plans. But besides the fact that the construction and property sector is affected by climate change, the industry, through its large cli­ mate emissions during construction and management, also has great opportunities and a great responsibility to be part of the transition towards a climate-neutral society. It is a matter of cli­ mate-smart construction with material and system choices de­ signed with a focus on the climate, of implementing across-theboard efficiency improvements that benefit energy consumption and encourage local usage. Circular business models and digitali­ sation potential are important areas for development to promote processes that make it possible to achieve the global climate tar­ gets. DIGITALISATION Rapid digitalisation is fundamentally changing society. Many industries have been challenged by new business models, new participants and new consumer behaviours. Increased informa­ tion and data quantities combined with intelligent systems have given rise to new services that capture human needs in a completely new way. In the property industry, increased digitalisation also entails streamlining opportunities and smarter management of the core business, as well as completely new deals and services that can be developed. Co-working is one example of a service offering AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 8 BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE AND TRENDS Trends in higher education and research In addition to global megatrends, we also have to relate to more industry-specific trends in higher education and research. In order to succeed with our mission and provide professional support to our customers, it is extremely important that we understand these issues and that we apply that knowledge as we work together to develop knowledge environments of the future. NEW PARTICIPATORS CHALLENGE UNIVERSITIES can make a significant contribution and create campus envi­ Applications for higher education are still at a high level. Degrees ronments which in addition to leading research and education have a limited shelf life and for many lifelong learning is a reality environments also include housing and other services that help in which skills must constantly be updated, or sometimes com­ to enhance attractiveness and thereby draw more students and pletely replaced. We see a steady increase in the number of par­ researchers to Sweden. ticipators offering shorter vocational training and certificates that quickly lead to jobs. The growing number of online courses DEFINING THE CLIMATE ISSUE is also changing the playing field, i­ ntensifying the competition In 2019, the higher education sector joined forces to formulate for students of the future. a common climate framework. Most universities have signed the framework and have therefore committed to reducing their INTERNATIONALISATION – CAMPUS AS ECOSYSTEM own climate impact to be in line with society’s overarching goals. Awareness of Sweden as a nation of knowledge and as an More efficient use of premises, climate-smart construction and attractive partner in research and higher education is a core issue energy efficiency improvements are typical issues that the uni­ that is highlighted in the Swedish Government’s internationali­ versities are now integrating into their strategies. This require sation inquiry. One obstacle that is noted is the shortage of under­ innovative solutions that are developed in c­ ollaboration with graduate and graduate student housing. Here Akademiska Hus both property owners and others. “ Greta Thunberg says listen to the researchers. We must also do so, as far as possible, when it comes to our own carbon footprint. We also listen to our students who are strongly committed to these issues” EVA ÅKESSON Vice-Chancellor at Uppsala University AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 9 MARKET SUMMARY Swedish model for higher education and research Under the Swedish model, the state is responsible for financing higher education. This promotes lifelong learning and ensures the supply of skills in Sweden. The centres of education are responsible for their supply of facilities, with Akademiska Hus as the market leading landlord. The Parliament and the Government have overall responsibility 30 per cent. In all, 60 per cent of beginners at the undergraduate for higher education and research in Sweden. In most cases, the level are women. higher education institutions are public authorities and have three main duties: Teaching and research, c­ ollaboration with the FOCUS ON COMMUNITY PROPERTIES surrounding ­community and acting to ensure that research results The commercial property market performed well in 2019. As benefit the public. In addition, according to the government previously, the majority of transactions took place in major cities mandate, they are also tasked with planning for the future supply and regional centres, where demand for office space remains of facilities. This is where we at Akademiska Hus contribute with high. Vacancy rates remain at very low levels, even though total our experience and e­ xpertise. office space continues to grow. New construction and major renovation projects are driving office rents to higher levels, while FOCUS ON EDUCATION AND RESEARCH development is slower in smaller cities where fewer projects are Colleges and universities are funded through government grants in progress. and external funds. Total revenue for colleges and universities Interest in community properties c­ ontinues to be strong. In have increased in real terms since the late 1990s, especially the sub-segment premises for higher education and research during the last decade. This trend is largely the result of major Akademiska Hus is the leader with a market share of about 61 per research initiatives, mainly due to the research policy proposals cent. ­Demand for on-campus premises also d ­ epends in part on how in 2008, 2012 and 2016 (UKÄ, 2019 Annual Report). Sweden is well the campus is integrated with the city in general. Through one of the OECD countries that invests most in research and improved communication opportunities, increased supply of ser­ development in relation to GDP. vices and development of undergraduate and graduate student The number of applicants to undergraduate and graduate housing, campuses can be made more attractive for both the centres level programmes are at a historically high level. Compared with of education and the business community. about ten years ago, the number of applicants has increased by “We will ensure that Sweden’s students have favourable conditions for safe and secure studies. We invest in education and research to build a stronger society.” MATILDA ERNKRANS Minister of higher education and research AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 10 MARKET SUMMARY College and university cities We are one of the largest property companies in Sweden Akademiska Hus 16 can be found at with a total area of about 3.3 million square metres. Since the inception Akademiska Hus have invested approximatly Luleå SEK 53 billion to strengthen the development of higher education institutions. Most of our cash flow is reinvested college and each year in our projects and our robust financial position university cities creates stability and promotes a long-term approach for Umeå our customers. Outcome Budget Forecast Forecast 2019 2020 2021 2022 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Average rentable area, 1,000 m² 3,322 3,355 3,387 3,414 Gävle Property values, SEK m 91,424 92,500 95,000 97,500 Net investment in properties, SEK m 3,266 2,000 2,500 2,500 Uppsala Karlstad Stockholm FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Örebro Rental revenue, SEK m 6,050 6,400 6,700 6,900 Norrköping Skövde Net operating income, SEK m 4,121 4,450 4,800 5,000 Linköping Profit before tax, SEK m 1 6,957 3,850 4,150 4,350 Gothenburg Equity ratio, % 45.7 43.2 43.5 43.9 Borås Return on operating capital, % 2 10.3 5.3 5.6 5.7 Return on equity, % 1 12.2 6.6 6.9 7.0 Lund Kristianstad 1)  019 includes changes in value of properties. Budget and forecasts 2020–2022 exclude 2 Alnarp changes in the value of properties and changes in the value of financial instruments. 2)  019 includes changes in value of properties. Budget and forecasts 2020–2022 exclude 2 Malmö changes in the value of properties. Our six largest locations Location Market value and area Largest centres of education Location Market value and area Largest centres of education Stockholm SEK 42 billion Stockholm University Karolinska Institutet Lund SEK 8 billion Lund University 945,000 m² Royal Institute of Technology 360,000 m² Uppsala SEK 16 billion Uppsala University Swedish University of Agricultural Umeå SEK 4 billion Umeå University Swedish University of Agricultural 601,000 m² Sciences, Ultuna 238,000 m² Sciences, Umeå Gothenburg SEK 9 billion University of Gothenburg Chalmers University of Linköping SEK 4 billion Linköping University 370,000 m² Technology 238,000 m² AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 11 STRATEGY AND TARGETS We strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge Based on our vision – We strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge – we serve as a strategic partner for centres of education in the develop­ment of tomorrow’s knowledge environments. We are a supplier of facilities and services that strengthen the customers operations and attractiveness. Business concept Working in collaboration with our customers, we develop, build and m ­ anage knowledge environments that make the centres of education more attractive and contribute to sustainable development in the community. We offer products and services based on the needs of the centres of education and where the campus experience is strengthened through relevant services. Strategy Our strategy until 2021 – Collaboration in the development of future know­ ledge environments – equips us to meet the challenges and ensures the company’s long-term relevance as a property company for Swedish centres of education. The cornerstones of the strategy are Upgraded core delivery, Enhanced customer relationships and Innovative business development. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 12 STRATEGY AND TARGETS Our strategy Collaboration in the development of future knowledge environments Upgraded Enhanced customer Innovative busicore delivery relationships ness development We upgrade our core delivery and We enhance our relationships with We create clear added value for simplify and improve daily life for all customers. A good customer both customer and owner through our customers by taking long-term ­relationship is based on mutual collaboration with customers in responsibility for a sustainable ­respect and trust and is crucial for regards to development and inno­ business and delivering highus to be able to work together to vation. We monitor the rapid quality facilities with a good user create campuses of the future. We changes in our industry to stay on experience. We use the collective must be sensitive and have insight the leading edge and leverage the expertise of our employees and into the needs and wishes of each potential of digitalisation. We must leverage our economies of scale to customer regarding collaboration, develop our value proposition in deliver constant development and always in balance with a viable order to remain relevant for our higher efficiency in daily life. commercial approach. customers. To meet the demands and chal­ In order to enhance our customer We develop new business models lenges of the future, a profound relationships we have signed stra­ and innovation environments by digital transformation of the busi­ tegic collaboration agreements working dynamically and running ness is currently underway. We are with several higher education insti­ small-scale test operations where also investing in further strength­ tutions. One example is the collab­ successful pilot projects can sub­ ening our expertise in for instance oration agreement signed in 2019 sequently be scaled up to size. For learning e­ nvironments. Our new with Uppsala University, which in­ example, we have developed and climate targets and the decision to cludes developing more sustainable launched our own concept and increase our level of ambition in campuses. A three-year action plan brand for co-working and flexible regards to Miljöbyggnad certifica­ has been formulated with an array meeting places, AWL. We have also tion system in all our new con­ of measures linked to energy, sus­ conducted a series of collaborative struction drives developments to­ tainable mobility, greener and projects with customers and are wards an upgraded and sustain­able more beautiful campus environ­ involved in promoting industry-­ core delivery. ments. wide initiatives for propertyrelated services. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 13 STRATEGY AND TARGETS Targets for follow-up of our strategy The operational target aim towards the company’s overall objectives and contribute to five different perspectives: Finance, Customer, Property, Employees and Development. The table presents the outcomes for 2017, 2018 and 2019, as well as the targets for 2019 and 2021, corresponding to the time horizon for the current business plan. The objective of ­climate neutrality, which was established in 2019, is presented on pages 32–33. Finance We deliver the owner’s financial targets over a business cycle. Outcome 2017 Outcome 2018 Outcome 2019 Target 2019 Target 2021 Return on operating capital, % 13.7 9.2 10.3 ≥6 ≥6 Equity ratio, % 43.3 45.8 45.7 35–45 35–45 Dividend to the owner, % 60 60 60 40–70 40–70 Customer We provide better deliverables than others and we are our customers’ first choice. Outcome 2017 Outcome 2018 Outcome 2019 Target 2019 Target 2021 Customer Satisfaction Index 60 62 61 65 70 Property Our work contributes to increase the long-term value of our property portfolio. Outcome 2017 Outcome 2018 Outcome 2019 Target 2019 Target 2021 Energy reduction (kWh/sq m), % -1.6 +0.3 -4.6 -5.0 -3.7 Employees We have dedicated employees who achieve high standards. Outcome 2017 Outcome 2018 Outcome 2019 Target 2019 Target 2021 Performance index, AHPI * 65 73 75 77 Accident-free workplaces, ELTAR * 2.4 2.4 ≤3 ≤2 Development  e are increasing the share of collaborative innovation projects W with our customers, as well as construction of student housing. Outcome 2017 Outcome 2018 Outcome 2019 Target 2019 Target 2021 Number of undergraduate and graduate student housing units * 510 710 710 1,700 Innovation in collaboration, % * 47 62 50 70 *The targets were defined and measured for the first time in 2018 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 14 STRATEGY AND TARGETS Comments to target fulfilment Through measurable targets, we receive confirmation that our work is moving us forward. Below are comments on our target fulfilment and how we work to achieve our goals by 2021. FINANCE EMPLOYEES The Annual General Meeting 2019 resolved to change the finan­ The Akademiska Hus Performance index (AHPI) reflects the cial targets. The decision does not affect what key figures the conditions for e­ mployees to perform according to their mission company will follow, but refers to the levels of the targets, as well and was introduced in 2018. The target for 2019 was 75, which as the calculation basis regarding return on operating capital, represents a situation with good leadership and good prospects which also includes changes in value related to the property for accomplishing the mission. During 2019, the units worked holdings. The targets should be achieved over a business cycle. based on their results to create even b ­ etter conditions. In man­ The return target should be at least 6.0 percent. The target agement, the performance index rose nine units, which is a big for the equity ratio has changed from the interval 30–40 per improvement and which provides good conditions for a strong cent to 35–45 per cent and the target for the dividend has been customer delivery. The target for 2021 is 77. expanded from the 40–60 interval per cent to 40–70 per cent. A quantitative target was introduced in 2018 for the goal of The large changes in value in recent years are the main reason an accident-free workplace. We use ELTAR, which is the acci­ that the return on operating capital exceeded the target. At year-­ dent rate for our entrepreneurs, as our measure (for more in­ end it was 10.3 per cent. formation see page 120). We actively participate in the organi­ The large changes in value of our properties also affect the sation Håll Nollan’s work to achieve long-term improvement of equity ratio, which was 45.7 per cent before the d ­ ividend. quality and standards relating to surveys and to increase under­ standing of these matters within the industry. The target for CUSTOMER 2021 is that ELTAR should not exceed 2. The CSI survey for the year gave a result of 61 and is compara­ ble to the level of 2018. The aim for 2019 was 65 per cent. Many DEVELOPMENT initiatives were introduced during the year in order to strengthen With our student housing we want to create innovative homes customer relationships. For example, microfeedback was intro­ for a sustainable quality of life. Our undergraduate and graduate duced into daily operations and a new application was developed student housing initiative is going on intensively and after the to improve the dialogue and procedures for reporting problems. year’s grand opening celebrations of student accommodation, the We believe that these initiatives will generate increased customer 2019 target of 710 units was reached. The target for 2021 is 1,700. satisfaction over time. The target for CSI in 2021 is 70. In order to maintain cutting-edge knowledge and a high de­ velopment capacity in a rapidly changing world, we have targeted PROPERTY our innovation ability. We measure this by following the pro­ In line with our energy reduction target of 50 per cent by 2025 portion of innovation projects that are run in collaboration and our new t­ arget of climate-neutral property operations by with our customers. The target for 2019 was 50 per cent, which 2025, an extremely ambitious energy reduction target was set was achieved with a good margin as 20 of our 32 innovation for 2019. The annual target of 5 per cent was not fully achieved, projects was run in collaboration with our customers. We see but we see a considerable improvement in the reduction rate this as a sign that our innovation projects are relevant and im­ from previous years, which shows that our e­ fforts to accelerate portant for both us and our customers. The target for 2021 is 70 our energy-saving projects have produced, and will continue to per cent. produce, clear results. The target for the years until 2021 is continually ambitious at 3.7 annually. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 15 Our value proposition We develop, build and manage knowledge environments that create value for students, graduate students and the centres of education, but also for our employees, partners, owner and society. Together we strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 17 OUR FOUR ESSENTIAL AREAS How we contribute to a stronger nation of knowledge Our goals and strategies are aimed at strengthening our delivery and the services we offer our customers. Through sustainable campus development we create the best conceivable conditions for colleges and universities around the country. In our role as one of Sweden’s largest property developers and creation on the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals. In managers, we have major opportunities to contribute to a more our business plan, the sustainability perspective is deeply inte­ sustainable society and it is when we work closely with our cus­ grated in our targets and activities, supporting the Global Goals tomers that we achieve the best results. We are the market and associated targets that we consider to be the highest priori­ leader in our segment in Sweden and our nationwide presence ties. By doing so, we contribute to the Global Goals. enables us to transfer lessons gained from experience in one Akademiska Hus has identified, in dialogue with our stake­ part of the country to another. The overall financial strength holders, four areas that need to be prioritised if we are to succeed that our property portfolio provides creates the long-term with long-term and successful value creation. Our overall value security that Swedish research and education deserve. proposition can therefore be described based on the essential We base our sustainability initiatives on the ten principles areas listed below. of the Global Compact and focus our work by basing our value Our four essential areas Value-adding knowledge environments Responsible relationships With climate-smart and innovative investments in our We strive to achieve high transparency in our customer campuses and a viable commercial approach we create relationships to create understanding of our role and long-term value and long-term benefit for both stake­ our mission. We set clear requirements for high ethical holders and the environment. We also focus heavily on standards that both we and our suppliers must meet, so the social perspectives of well-being and accessibility. that we can contribute to a sustainable society together. Read more on pages 20–31 Read more on pages 35–37 Resource efficiency for reduced climate impact Caring for people We use the assets at our disposal and the resources we By working proactively for a healthy and safe work environ­ consume more efficiently to reduce the burden on the ment for both employees and customers, as well as suppli­ environment. Collaboration on innovations is crucial ers, we improve the industry and strengthen our relation­ and builds a high development capacity. ship with our stakeholders. Read more on pages 32–34 Read more on pages 38–39 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 18 OUR FOUR ESSENTIAL AREAS TOGETHER WE ENHANCE ONE ANOTHER Sweden’s higher education institutions are not only responsible for research and edu­ cation, but also for its supply of premises. Akademiska Hus is owned by the Swedish state and our mission is to provide our customers with the best possible conditions to enable focus on research and education. We achieve the best results by working closely with our customers. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 19 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Customised properties and facilities With our broad scope and leading expertise, we meet customer needs The scope of our properties and projects is wide. A campus is home to everything from high-tech laboratories and teaching environments to co-working spaces. Our national presence and broad expertise enable us to transfer lessons gained from experience in one part of the country to another. Akademiska Hus is owned by the Swedish state and is one of the which reason we build projects for long-term management. This largest property companies in Sweden. With a focus on colleges approach provides us with excellent opportunities to invest in and universities, we have an aggregated property value of SEK 91 sustainable and innovative solutions. Investments are pursued billion. Most of the cash flow is reinvested into our operation, from project concept to approved investment in a systematic which provides security for our customers. Our stable finances process. Our financial capacity also means that we can invest and have enabled us to invest approximatly SEK 53 billion in new contribute to our customers’ expansion, even during a recession. construction, additions and renovation projects since the inception of Akademiska Hus in 1993. Investments that make it COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN possible to contribute to strengthening Sweden as a nation of CONSTRUCTION PROCESS knowledge while working closely with our customers. Our projects create the conditions that enable students, graduate students and teachers to perform. We must therefore work OUR PROJECT OPERATIONS together to understand the needs of our customers. We want to Projects account for a large part of Akademiska Hus’ operations be a partner to the customers from the concept development and given our extensive experience of building for education and stage in order to create the most efficient and sustainable proresearch, we are a proactive and long-term partner for our cusjects together. By having clear requirements and expectations tomers. Our projects vary substantially, ranging from minor renthroughout the construction process, from early phases to the ovations to student accommodation and advanced new research transfer, we can deliver a product of the right quality according facilities. Akademiska Hus is both builder and manager, for to a common vision. BREAKDOWN BY PREMISE CATEGORY TENANT CATEGORIES Colleges and universities, 85% Classrooms and lecture halls, 49% Publicly financed operations, 4% Laboratories, 35% Chalmersfastigheter, 4% Offices, 16% Other, 7% AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 20 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Customised properties and facilities COMMISSIONED PROJECTS 2019 OVER SEK 100 MILLION Type of Investment Miljöbyggnad Additional Project name Location premises limits, SEK m certification floor space, m² Completion Customer Gold (new construction)/Silver Humanisten Gothenburg Offices 668 (renovation) 12,100 2019-Q4 University of Gothenburg Student Building Linköping Education 411 Gold 13,500 2019-Q2 Linköping University Student housing at Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm Residential 400 — 8,900 2019-Q1 Akademiska Hus A Working Lab Gothenburg Other 381 Gold 9,600 2019-Q3 Akademiska Hus TOTAL 1,860 APPROVED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2019 OVER SEK 100 MILLION Type of Investment Percentage Miljöbyggnad Additional Expected Project name Location premises limits, SEK m accrued, % certification floor space, m² completion Customer Albano Stockholm Education 3,302 57 Silver 100,000 2022-Q2 Stockholm University Naturvetenskap life Gothenburg Laboratory 1,803 6 — 28,000 2023-Q2 University of Gothenburg Ångström Phase 4 Uppsala Laboratory 1,185 37 Silver 30,000 2022-Q4 Uppsala University LTH Maskinteknik Lund Education 499 3 — 19,000 2022-Q2 Lund University KI Residence Stockholm Residential 434 66 — 15,500 2020-Q1 Karolinska Institutet Medical Biology Centre Umeå Laboratory 306 85 Silver 1,800 2020-Q1 Umeå University Hydra student housing Uppsala Residential 193 30 — 4,600 2020-Q3 Akademiska Hus Polstjärnan student housing Luleå Residential 183 89 — 6,000 2020-Q1 Akademiska Hus ITC Uppsala Education 156 32 — — 2020-Q3 IT Gymnasiet Sverige AB Projects under SEK 100 million 1,039 TOTAL 9,100 PLANNED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2019 OVER SEK 100 MILLION Type of Investment Additional Expected Project name Location premises limits, SEK m floor space, m² completion Customer New art Gothenburg Education 1,653 26,500 2026-Q2 University of Gothenburg Forum Medicum Lund Offices 809 11,600 2023-Q2 Lund University Handels Hörne Gothenburg Offices 526 6,200 2024-Q2 University of Gothenburg Student housing Aquila Uppsala Residential 338 4,100 2022-Q3 Akademiska Hus Retzius Stockholm Laboratory 173 6,700 2022-Q1 Akademiska Hus ITM school Innovation arena Stockholm Education 107 5,500 2023-Q4 Royal Institute of Technology Botanicum Stockholm Laboratory 100 5,200 2022-Q3 Akademiska Hus Projects under SEK 100 million 594 TOTAL 4,300 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 21 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Customised properties and facilities WE BUILD SUSTAINABLY project methodology “Common construction process”. The reBoth Akademiska Hus and our customers have high aspirations views support the operation and aid employees in their work. for sustainability. Our role as a long-term property owner proIn 2019 the focus was on following up on and further develop vides an excellent opportunity for building wisely and sustainaproject operations based on the results obtained during the bly. Our goal is always to deliver the highest possible customer 2018 reviews, which strengthened and further developed our value through resource efficiency and good cost management. common construction process. At the same time, Akademiska Hus strives to minimise environmental impact through sustainable construction processes and OUR PROJECT PORTFOLIO carefully considered material choices. In 2019, a decision was The project portfolio comprise of two parts, approved and made to certify all new construction according to gold rating in planned projects and amount to SEK 13,400 million, of which the Miljöbyggnad certification system and all major renovation about SEK 4,600 million has already been invested in projects projects according to silver rating. New construction and major in progress. All planned projects have an inquirey or planning renovation projects of student housing should fulfil the criteria framework where some form of agreement exist between the for silver rating in the Miljöbyggnad certification system at a Company and the tenant. minimum and formal certification is encouraged (read more on Three approved projects dominate the portfolio: Albano, where page 34). the first phase will be commissioned in 2021, Naturvetenskap As a property developer and owner, we want to create the Life which will be commissioned in 2023 and Ångström phase most efficient and energy-smart buildings possible for our cus4 with planned comission in 2022. The main part of our project tomers. To learn more about circular material flows and busiportfolio are new construction, extension, redevelopment and ness models, we are participating in the collaborative project renovation of existing properties. The emphasis of the project “Återbruk i Väst”, an arena for collaboration involving property portfolio can be found in Stockholm and Gothenburg but projects owners, architects, public players and researchers who want to can be found among all our larger towns and cities. find methods and create conditions for more recycling in the Four of the major projects in the project portfolio is student construction industry. housing projects which accounts for SEK 1,200 million. Building sustainably also involves safety and reducing the risk of accidents at our construction sites. We work proactively for PROJECT PORTFOLIO, SEK M safer workplaces and are one of the orchestrators of the industry31 Dec. 31 Dec. wide organisation “Håll Nollan” initiative (read more on page 37). 2019 2018 Approved projects 9,100 9,900 PROJECT REVIEWS Planned projects 4,300 4,100 The project reviews are implemented to identify and manage Decided and planned projects 13,400 14,000 risks associated with the projects and to contribute to constant of which already invested in projects in progress -4,600 -4,400 improvements in Akademiska Hus’ management system and Remainder of decided and planned projects 8,800 9,600 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 22 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Customised properties and facilities Four large commissioned projects 2019 Linköping – Student Building Gothenburg – A Working Lab Through the new student building at Campus Valla, 1,000 new study An office and innovation arena and part of Johanneberg Science Park areas and innovative learning environments have become reality. at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. This building All service functions for students are provided in a single location: will be the workplace for an array of players in the built environment reception, student health, admissions and degree services, confermoving forward. The building became a site for innovation already ence rooms, restaurant and a student-run café. A modern library has during the construction phase through a number of innovation projects also been integrated in the building. (read more on pages 27–29). Tenant: Linköping University Tenant: Akademiska Hus, RISE, Johanneberg Science Park and Architect: White Arkitekter companies in the building’s co-working space, as well as others. Completion: Summer 2019 Architect: Tengbom Miljöbyggnad certification: Gold level Completion: Autumn 2019 Miljöbyggnad certification: Gold level Stockholm – Student housing at Royal Institute of Technology Gothenburg – Humanisten Akademiska Hus has built 230 student flats under its own manageThe new Humanisten building will enable the University of Gothenburg ment at Campus (Teknikringen) in Stockholm with room for over 400 to improve the visibility and co-locate the activities of the Faculty of students. The housing units mainly consist of two-bedroom flats to be Arts, which were previously scattered around the city. The new section shared by two students. The project involves six buildings on campus. includes over 16,600 square metres and will house open meeting areas, study areas, an auditorium, classrooms and offices. Tenant: Royal Institute of Technology Architect: Utopia Arkitekter Tenant: University of Gothenburg Completion: Final phase spring 2019 Architect: KUB Arkitekter Completion: Year-end 2019/2020 Miljöbyggnad certification: Gold level AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 23 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Customised properties and facilities PRIZES AND AWARDS In 2019, Biomedicum at Karolinska Institutet in Solna received the prestigious Building of the Year award. This award is the most prestigious honour in the built environment sector, highlighting examples of the industry’s finest achievements in terms of quality, project collaboration, finances and design. The jury motivated its choice by noting that the project group successfully implemented an ambitious agenda regarding its ­approach to collaboration, the atmosphere on the job and putting safety first. In 2019, Albano became Sweden’s first campus certified to Citylab standards – a sustainability certification for entire neighbourhoods. The certification covers early and overarching planning and programme phases. In order to qualify, the project met the criteria for 20 ­indicators, covering both qualitative and quantitative assessment criteria and reporting requirements. The ­focus includes process management, organisation, ­dialogue and collaboration. In addition, the project must offer mixed use construction, sustainable travel modes, meeting places, green spaces, ecosystem ­services and energy systems with low climate impact. The Ekonomikum reading room at Uppsala University won the Swedish Lighting Prize during the year. The jury explained that the project, demonstrates expertise about study environments and a thorough understanding of the interplay between light and colour, form and material. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 24 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Tomorrow’s knowledge environments Together, we create the knowledge environments of the future Campuses always need to evolve and change to meet contemporary needs. With digitalisation and the high pace of change in society, the need for close dialogue and cooperation is greater than ever to create an environment that promotes research and education for the future. Development of campuses are crucial for Akademiska Hus. With a long-term approach we develop knowledge environments that are sustainable and deployable to meet the requireKNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENT OR LEARNING ments of today and the future. Working with a centre of educaENVIRONMENT? tion to interpret and convert these visions so that the physical The concepts of knowledge environment and learning environment can best support its strategies is at the heart of environment are often used interchangeably, or overlapping, when we discuss development of environcampus development. Together with the administration, ments for research and higher education. This is how ­employees and students of the centre of education, we explore we define and distinguish between the concepts: how the physical environment can be developed to create attractive and flexible buildings and outdoor environments. We Knowledge environment is the physical framework follow a structured approach with a focus on the long-term and that promotes spontaneous and planned meetings between people. It is an arena for education, resustainability. Leveraging the joint knowledge we share with search, innovation and collaboration. In many cases, our customers and converting it into clearly defined developa knowledge environment can be equated with a ment plans and campus plans is the key to success. campus, but it may also comprise individual buildings in the city. CAMPUS WITH MANY FUNCTIONS Learning environments are components in an e ­ fficient The campus is a venue for research and learning, as well as for knowledge environment. Learning environments are encounters with the business community and society at large. the ingredients that are mixed in the knowledge enviCreating spaces for this, building student housing (read more on ronment and form a whole. Separately, they are strong page 31) and ensuring an attractive selection of services in coland important; together they are indispensable. laboration with other stakeholders is becoming increasingly important for the centres of education. Restaurants, opportunities for cultural and sports activities and access to child care and preschools in close proximity to campus are examples of services that make life easier and are increasingly integrated SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY AND GREEN ENVIRONMENTS into and around the campus. For example, in Stockholm an enOur method of developing campuses includes not only questions tire new knowledge environment and neighbourhood are under and visions about new buildings. It also involves how we utilise ­development. The Albano Campus connects the university capspaces between buildings and how we create a total vision that ital of Stockholm, forming a sustainable campus with education makes the campus a place where people enjoy life and thrive. For environments for more than 15,000 students and researchers. example, when designing our campuses, we may promote physiApproximately 1,000 student housing units and premises for cal activity through pedestrian paths and outdoor gyms, or base commercial services will also be built here. The project area is the design on the documented significance of green outdoor envibeing transformed from a small industry area into a green, ronments for stress relief. Art is also important for creating ­sustainable campus for science and daily life. pleasant and attractive knowledge environments. We are therefore expanding our collaboration with Public Art Agency of Sweden starting in 2019 by investing in more art for our campuses. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 25 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Tomorrow’s knowledge environments The Albano Campus will be a scientific hub connecting the university capital of Stockholm, forming a sustainable campus with education environments for students and researchers. Approximately 1,000 student housing units and premises for commercial services will also be built here. DIGITAL AND FLEXIBLE LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS we can create greater flexibility, efficiency and even completely Regardless of industry, all businesses need to relate to and act new services (read more on page 31). based on an increasingly digital reality. For us, this reality inDigitalisation also greatly influences the design and use of volves everything from how we design learning environments new learning environments. A gradual, increasing integration is of the future to how we develop and manage our properties underway at Swedish centres of education between physical ­using more climate-friendly services. In 2019 Akademiska Hus study and work environments and virtual classrooms and social continued to work with digitalisation-related issues. There are platforms. We are seeing an increased demand for learning several examples of how we test digital solutions for a ground-­ environments that support educational methods based on more breaking approach to property management. One example is student-active learning, which has different spatial and digital Örebro University, which was scanned in its entirety to create a requirements than more traditional lecture halls. In 2019, digital twin – a digital information model that represents reality. Akademiska Hus launched an initiative focused on learning In Umeå, we have studied utilisation of properties as part of the environments, involving several development projects with RUGGEDISED EU project, with the aim of developing services different centres of education on converting existing, traditionfor smarter use of premises. With the help of digital technology al lecture halls and study environments into flexible and and a focus on the people who spend time in our buildings, needs-adapted learning environments. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 26 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Tomorrow’s knowledge environments Campus as test bed Through structured innovation collaborations using the campus as a test bed, we contribute to sustainable community development. This can range from innovation projects to promote recycling in the construction process, to building an office building with a wooden frame and without a tent to protect it from the weather, or how we can increase the utilisation rate per square metre in our properties. The property industry has major challenges in the transition to a sustainable society. We live in a rapidly changing world. Innovation and digitalisation the end of 2019 consists of about 30 projects that are run in are high-priority areas of focus that will enable us to meet these collaboration with customers and other partners. changes and work with an agile approach in order to contribute Our campuses can advantageously serve as test beds for into sustainable development in the community. Our innovation novation, preferably in close collaboration with our customers. initiatives are based on a strategy to create, with better structure One clear example is A Working Lab at Johanneberg Science and clearer goals, an innovation process in three selected areas: Park in Gothenburg. The construction project involved an imFuture knowledge and learning environments, Campus and urban pressive 16 innovation projects ranging from rooms for learndevelopment, and Construction and energy technology. The ing of the future to acoustics in a wooden frame building. strategy has resulted in a strong innovation portfolio, which at AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 27 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS CASE | A Working Lab A Working Lab – Innovation engine The building is the second phase of Johanneberg Science Park on the Chalmers campus in Gothenburg. It is an arena for innovation and collaboration where ideas and knowledge can be shared by academia, industry and community stakeholders. With A Working Lab we have created an innovation arena in ing the construction process to avoid limiting the innovation the built environment and learning environments. But the road projects. The innovation work determined what choices were forward has also involved an innovation process. The work promade and it has not been possible to say from the beginning ceeded by 16 innovation projects with a clear focus on climate what should or should not be prioritised. This has been a new and sustainability. A selection of which can be seen below. The experience for all partners and a catalyst for how Akademiska innovation projects were given priority over the traditional Hus views innovation. construction project and several questions were kept open durLearning Lab – reality lab for learning BIM in management and scanning 1 In the “Learning Lab” innovation project we created a test bed in which we could learn more about how 4 A digital platform has been developed to link systems in the building with the aim of structuring digital tools, furnishings, lighting, sound and other property data for more efficient management. It environmental factors can influence learning, creativity and has resulted in the products: Digital reading in operational outcomes. As part of the Learning Lab, we want to explore and maintenance issues and a digital twin – a virtual informaand develop the potential of the large flexible spaces, comtion model that represents reality. The entire building has bined with technology that provides the right support for been scanned on three different occasions during the coneach activity. The long-term project will contribute to restruction phase. When the technology is linked with the BIM search and knowledge development related to learning over model, property data can be displayed as a digital layer on the time. The Learning Lab will open in the spring of 2020. scanned indoor environment, similar to Google street view. Acoustics in a wooden frame and building without Follow-up research – learning about innovation 2 a weather tent One of society’s major challenges involves building 5 management Working with innovation as an engine in a sustainably with reduced climate impact. This is one construction project has been a new experience reason that wood is becoming more popular as a construction for all partners and a catalyst for how Akademiska Hus material even for large buildings. In A Working Lab, we have exviews innovation. Follow-up researchers from Chalmers and plored how we can take advantage of the strengths of wood Royal Institute of Technology have studied the innovation construction and limit its weaknesses as much as possible. For process that Akademiska Hus uses. Through interviews and example, the frame is built completely without a weather tent observations, the researchers have identified how to organand new methods for weather protection have been tested. ise for collaborative innovation. Another goal has been to achieve equivalent acoustics as in a concrete building and with the same flexible choices. Reduced climate impact DC current from solar cells with battery storage 6 One goal in the project was to reduce climate impact in the construction phase as well as during 3 A Working Lab is our first DC-connected building (direct current) with solar panels and battery storage. By operation. In order to follow up on and continually influence the climate impact in the construction project, we minimising the energy conversion between direct curworked with White Arkitekter and carried out comprehensive rent and alternating current while also using battery storage to calculations of the project’s carbon footprint. Through active smooth out production peaks, the project has created new expedecisions regarding material choices, we were able to considriences for scalable and more efficient energy consumption. In erably reduce the carbon footprint by an estimated 15–20 per the basement of the house there is a salt layer that can store encent compared with more traditional material choices. ergy through phase change (PCM, Phase Change Material) to achieve power reduction on cooling supplied to the building. This is the first time such a solution is being tested on a large scale. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 28 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS CASE | A Working Lab “We believe in creative collisions and un­ 3 expected meetings as drivers of develop­ ment and innovation. And that is exactly what A Working Lab is all about.” ULF DÄVERSJÖ Head of Innovation and Sustainable Development, Akademiska Hus 5 6 2 4 1 3 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 29 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Services to centres of education Our aspiration – the customer’s first choice Our objective is to meet the needs and desires of our customers, today and in the future. We currently manage about 3.3 million square metres with the ambition that our properties must maintain a high standard for a long time, but at the same time be able to be adapted to meet the changing needs of our customers, this is why our service offering is constantly evolving. QUALITATIVE MANAGEMENT CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS For Akademiska Hus, high quality in maintenance services, SERVICES BASED ON NEEDS responsible energy consumption based on our ambitious climate Through systematic dialogue with our stakeholders, targets and open communication with both customers and supwe learn what our customers’ needs look like and how pliers are crucial for increasing business benefits and business they change. Our services are designed to provide value for our customers and tenants. Skills development is crucial answers and solutions for these needs and we continufor us to be able to offer cutting edge management. In 2019, an ally work on updating our service offering to meet the important initiative was carried out as 75 per cent of our facility demands of our customers. engineers were certified. This initiative will continue in 2020. (For more detailed information about our stakeholder Another project that also focuses on our operations and core dialogue, see the Sustainability notes, page 112). delivery is ­Value-creating operational procedures in which we will Centres of education demand that we... formulate common working methods as guidance in daily work. • Provide attractive knowledge environments and In October each year we send out our CSI survey to about 1,000 campuses that enable the customer to compete customers and tenants. As an important complement to this, in in national and international arenas. 2019 we introduced the micro feedback function when reporting • Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustain­ problems, an opportunity for us to continuously develop our ability efforts through a proactive approach and customer r­ elationships through more direct feedback. high resource efficiency. • Contribute to increased construction of student accommodation. • Develop and provide new services and benefits within property management. Undergraduate and graduate students demand that we... • Develop smart digital solutions. • Plan and design environments suitable for their purpose, both indoors and outdoors. • Develop campuses that are accessible and promote social wellbeing. • Contribute to collaboration and dialogue. • Help to create more student accommodation. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 30 VALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Services to centres of education DEVELOPED CORE DELIVERY ­usually a centre of education or a foundation, but can also be In 2020 we will launch the convenient “My Campus” mobile app, a company which, like us, prioritises the undergraduate and which will offer a faster and more easily accessible way for us to graduate student housing issue and intends to rent to students meet our customers and the needs that arise daily in our properties. and researchers in the long term. We support and coordinate Sweden’s leading property companies, including Akademiska innovation projects aimed at identifying new services and susHus, have taken the initiative together with management comtainable housing options for undergraduate and graduate stupany Fastighetsägarna Service to develop Accessy, a digital platdents. For example, we carry out studies together with HSB form in which property owners can easily assign access, rights Living Lab in Gothenburg and KTH Live-In Lab in Stockholm and authorities, to locked spaces such as offices, meeting rooms, with a focus on how we can optimally design shared living arfacilities or apartments. The solution also handles accessibility rangements from a sustainability perspective. to various services such as logistics and deliverables, waste management and other services. In addition to improved functionality, security will also increase by providing better control over “Through an upgraded core delivery who may be present in the building and when. Through Accessy, the property companies are designing a service that will allow people to easily identify themselves with Swedish Bank ID in order to receive a personal digital key. Accessy is an “open soluwe will simplify and improve daily tion” for lock provider systems and property owners’ various life for our customers.” apps, such as tenant apps. Accessy will certify those companies that meet the requirements for secure key management. JONAS BJUGGREN SUSTAINABLE CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT AND MORE Administrative Manager, Akademiska Hus STUDENT HOUSING UNITS Developing knowledge environments is a complex process ­during which many perspectives must be considered. Our broad experience in properties for academia and our collective experCO-WORKING AND LAB FOR LEARNING tise from around the country enable us to work with our customA Working Lab is Akademiska Hus’ national concept for ers to meet the challenges that are unique to each location. Such co-working, makerspace, learning lab and other flexible meetchallenges may include development of outdoor environments, ing places. It is our concept for developing campus-based envimore campus-based student housing, projects to convert tradironments where it is easy for students, researchers, the busitional learning environments to be more flexible, or to explore ness community and other members of the community to meet opportunities for developing new laboratory environments (read under new flexible conditions. The concept is under developmore on page 25). ment in collaboration with those who occupy our premises, Together with our customers we plan sustainable campuses with the building itself as a test bed. Here companies and busithat meet local needs for undergraduate and graduate student nesses can rent space for the time they need and gain access to housing. We do so through our guidelines for student housing services and physical environments based on their specific which were formulated in 2019 and our vision to create innovaneeds. Conferences, meetings, trainings and workshops are tive homes for a sustainable quality of life. Akademiska Hus is held here. The first example is “A Working Lab – Johanneberg involved in the production of 11,000 undergraduate and graduate Science Park” in Gothenburg. Our concept permeates the entire student housing units that should be completed by 2026. The building there, but it can just as well be implemented in our exaim is to build 5,700 of these 11,000 units under our own manisting environments and as part of a building. agement. Access to undergraduate and graduate student housing Along with our customers, we develop and test both digital is important for the individual, but also for the attractiveness of technology and physical environment, which can help to increase each centre of learning and for Sweden as a nation of knowledge. attractiveness, while improving study outcomes and degree of We cooperate with other actors in the industry to focus on stuutilisation. In 2019 a “Learning Lab” has been under developdent housing issues and to create more sustainable and affordament at Chalmers’ Johanneberg Campus. This is a place for ble housing. We primarily work with block rentals of the underknowledge and new insights about how digital tools, furnishings, graduate and graduate student housing that we build mainly lighting, sound and other environmental factors can influence with long leases of ten years. The block rental partner is learning, creativity and outcomes. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 31 RESOURCE-EFFICIENT OPERATIONS Climate goals at the forefront – our path to success The climate is changing around the world and global warming is a fact. Operations at Akademiska Hus contribute to the climate impact, which is why we have adopted ambitious climate targets that clearly signal the direction of the work moving forward in order to eliminate our climate footprint. The research is clear. We are facing accelerating climate change As existing buildings become increasingly energy efficient, and both strong and rapid measures are needed to mitigate the we are now focusing on our construction projects, where a large negative effects that result from rising temperatures. A great portion of a building’s footprint can be found. To increase exdeal of responsibility rests on the business community and pertise, we have introduced a working method where we conpolitical decisions and policies will be crucial. Akademiska Hus tinuously assess the climate impact of the project from a life has formulated climate targets that are on the leading edge of cycle perspective, which provides well-founded decision supdevelopment, which will put great pressure on our operations port during project development and promotes insights on to break new ground in several areas. At the same time, we canwhen and how decisions are made that have a major impact on not achieve success on our own. Many parties must cooperate climate impact. We see a development where procurement data and accept common responsibility in the complex transition will be evolved, construction conditions will change and project that must now take place in order to achieve a climate-neutral calculations will be based on facts that focus on the climate. society. To achieve the profound climate transformation that society needs, the construction industry must fundamentally change. ENERGY EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS We need to carefully evaluate what needs serve as the foundaAkademiska Hus has continuously been working to find energy-­ tion for a new construction project and question whether there efficient solutions for the properties we own and manage. Initiare other options. Perhaps existing facilities can be used more atives involve both using less energy and using it smarter. efficiently, or recycled materials could be used. Achieving such Through a special focus on operational optimisation in our exa development requires new business models and systems that isting portfolio, we are steadily reducing both energy use and benefit resource-efficient measures, along with wise distribution power requirements, and we try to benefit from our large camof costs and risks among different players in the value chain. puses through measures such as taking advantage of excess energy between neighbouring buildings. “ Building and managing properties affect the climate and the environment. The construction industry must fundamentally change its decision-making processes immediately and give the climate top priority. We use large quantities of resources such as materials and energy and we also generate waste.” MIA EDOFSSON Sustainability Manager, Akademiska Hus. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 32 RESOURCE-EFFICIENT OPERATIONS Our journey towards climate neutrality To achieve a completely climate-neutral operation by 2045, with 2045 – Climate-neutral project operations will be achieved by follow­intermediate targets for our internal operations and our property ing and contributing to the actions that have been identified in Fos­operations already in 2025, our entire business needs to be fundasil Fuel-Free Sweden roadmap for f­ossil-free competitiveness in the mentally restructured. These three ambitious goals require us to construction and contracting industry by 2045. The carbon footprint ­leverage existing technology through proactive decisions, while from our construction projects accounts for an extensive portion of ­demanding and promoting new solutions. We must work together Akademiska Hus’ total climate impact and the challenges of cliwith other players in the industry and all choices and solutions must mate-neutral construction are many. In the runup to 2045 we will be made with a focus on the climate. therefore place great emphasis on clear follow-up and control of the impact of the projects, active decisions regarding design solutions, 2025 – Climate neutral property operations, will be achieved through systems and material choices and a c ­ larification of the company’s rededicated and active initiatives on proactive energy measures in exquirements for contractors regarding execution. With joint efforts in isting and new buildings, investments in energy-saving technology, the industry and future technological advances, we would like to be­purchasing strategies for energy and through innovative solutions lieve it is possible. A crucial issue involves increasing the efficiency and projects for renewable energy, supported by digitalisation. and appeal of existing buildings so that new construction is not always viewed as the preferable option. 2025 – Climate neutrality in internal operations, where the major challenge is to change current travel patterns. The goal will be achieved through implementation of new digital alternatives to physical m ­ eetings and by setting targets for all travel that uses fossil fuels. 2045 Climate-neutral project operations 2025 Climate-neutral property operations and internal operations New innovations and technology 2019 shifts have had a strong impact on how we build and manage our assets The year our climate journey begins Strategic collaboration and new business model Higher degree introduced on a of circularity large scale through recycling and recovered materials Develop digital working methods and proDigitalisation allows Climate impact from mote a travel-free new working project operations meeting culture ­methods, services reduced in half and efficient and (2030) more sustainable construction Recycling and circular Expanded initiative business models on a for new renewable pilot scale energy. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 33 RESOURCE-EFFICIENT OPERATIONS REDUCE – INFLUENCE – CREATE Our energy strategy has three main components. We want to reduce the quantity of delivered energy to one half of what it was in 2000 by 2025. We want to influence and collaborate with our energy suppliers to achieve a fossil-free and renewable product. We also want to create new renewable electricity that is equivalent to our needs. In our efforts to reduce the amount of delivered energy to the Miljöbyggnad certification system at a minimum and formal our properties, we focus on renewable energy, such as through certification is encouraged. This ambition is not applicable in solar installations. Akademiska Hus has a total of 60 facilities certain cases because of the nature of the operations, for which in its property portfolio that generate over 5 million kWh of reason deviation from this objective can be approved. In 2019 sustainable electricity annually to Swedish centres of educathe Innovation Arena and office building A Working Lab at tion. In 2020 additional facilities will be installed and the Johanneberg Science Park in Gothenburg received the highest quantity of solar energy will thereby increase by 50 per cent. rating and achieved the Miljö­byggnad Gold rating. Reducing the In September 2019 the grand opening of 5,462 square mecarbon footprint has been an area of focus during the project. tres of solar panels was celebrated in Uppsala, which will annuThrough smart material choices, the climate impact of the ally produce 1 million kWh for the Ultuna Campus together building is up to 15 to 20 per cent lower than if traditional with existing installations. This is an important part of our zero materials had been used. carbon footprint vision and our aspiration to achieve a completely fossil free energy supply. RAISE THE BAR FOR CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change affects us as property owners. For example, ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS we see a growing risk of mould and dampness in a warmer and Building to Miljöbyggnad standards provides confirmation of more humid climate, heating and cooling needs change with important qualities in a building in terms of energy, indoor enchanging temperature conditions over the seasons, and our vironment and material choices. In order to succeed in this enconstruction ­designs have to be adapted for new wind, snow and deavour, we stay up to date on the latest methods and technoloclimate impacts. These are changes in the climate that we as a gies. We currently have 47 certified buildings, including eight at property owner need to relate to and on the basis of which we the gold level and 39 at the silver level. The certified new conmust act. We have therefore analysed our assets from a climate struction and renovation projects must subsequently undergo a adaptation perspective. We have included this perspective in validation process, and to date 24 buildings have been verified the annual risk analyses carried out regularly for each property with retained certificates. In 2019 we made a decision to certify area, as well as in the long-term development plans that are all new construction according to gold rating in the Miljö­byggnad formulated for campuses and as part of the investment process for certification system and all major renovation projects according newand rebuilds. In addition, we continually update the techto silver rating. New construction and major renovation projects nology platform, our internal specifications, to create reasonable of student housing should fulfil the criteria for silver rating in redundancy for the changes in the climate that are predicted. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 34 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS Trust is built through responsible relationships By accepting responsibility in our relationships we win the trust of our stakeholders and together we can create sustainable values. That is why we include sustainable requirements in procurement processes, we have a transparent rental model and we actively work for a safer construction industry. Our focus is on creating value for our customers and on developThe requirements are specified in our Code of Conduct for suping and managing sustainable and competitive knowledge envipliers, which is based on the ten principles of the UN Global ronments for undergraduate and graduate students around the Compact. Already in the procurement phase, interested supplicountry, through responsible relationships. Collaboration is the ers must meet eligibility requirements and if they fail to do so, road forward and therefore our relationships and the trust capithey are eliminated from consideration. When new framework tal we possess are absolutely critical to how well we succeed in agreements and project agreements are signed, the Code of our mission, to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Conduct is attached as an appendix. In all procurements, SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER CHAINS SUPPLIERS, SHARE OF TOTAL PURCHASING VOLUME Akademiska Hus is a large purchasing organisation and buys products and services for about SEK 4.5 billion per year. Our 2,300 active suppliers are mainly Swedish companies. Since Construction materials and building services, 63% Technical consulting services 9% 2016, Akademiska Hus has been subject to the Public ProcureEnergy and water, 9% ment Act (LOU) and a restructuring was carried out in 2017 Installation services, 8% and 2018. LoU increases the opportunity for more and smaller Facility maintenance, 4% suppliers to compete on equal terms. Other services, 4% We place demands on our suppliers regarding the environFees, 3% ment, occupational health and safety, labour conditions and human rights, as well as business ethics and anti-corruption. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 35 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS s­ uppliers must also certify that they have both environmental TRANSPARENT RENTAL MODEL management and work environment management systems. Akademiska Hus has a leading position on the property market. If a supplier violates the Code of Conduct or the environmental This entails a large responsibility, both for deliverables to cusand occupational health and safety requirements, the agreement tomers and for development of the local rental market. Our rents may be terminated. About 200 new framework or project agree­ are therefore always set at market-based rates, and we always ments were signed in 2019 and all of them were also assessed strive for transparency and open negotiations with our tenants. based on social and environment-related criteria. We are active in an open market and set our rents the same way In 2018 and 2019, Akademiska Hus, assisted by an external that other property companies do, which means that our calculaparty, conducted 15 on-site quality, environment and work entions reflect the risk and costs associated with, for example, convironment reviews of selected contractors, with the aim of struction and management. Other factors include the general ­ensuring that they comply with agreed terms and conditions. market rent level of the local community, along with the location, In 2020 Akademiska Hus plans to conduct additional random type of building and lease term of the property. sample reviews. A whistleblower function has been in place for To compare rental prices charged by Akademiska Hus in the past few years that can also be used to report deviations. ­relation to those charged by other property owners in a compaNo cases of violation of our Code of Conduct for suppliers were rable portfolio, analyses are carried out regularly with assistance revealed in 2019. from an external valuation company. Transparency in how rents Akademiska Hus operates in an industry that has histori­cally are set is important in dialogues with the customers. seen corruption, bribery, violation of labour laws, etc. It is there­ fore important that our employees always behave professionally STABLE PROPORTION OF COST OF PREMISES and practice good business ethics in all contact with suppliers FOR SWEDEN’S CENTRES OF EDUCATION and customers. To reduce these risks, in 2019 we formulated a % training programme in business ethics that is mandatory for all 15 employees to complete in 2020. 12 9 6 3 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year The diagram above shows the proportion of cost of premises for Sweden’s centres of education over time. Despite extensive investments, costs for premises as a percentage of total costs have declined somewhat over time. INTERNAL RENT MARKET RENT LEVEL The rent that Akademiska Hus charges the centres of education is usually divided among the various departments of the MARKET RENT colleges and universities within each MARKET COSTS ­centre of education, along with other Akademiska Hus’ rents comprise ­expenses for facilities, which are not Operation and maintenance a basic rent that is intended to charged by Akademiska Hus. Land value cover operating, maintenance The departments are then charged an Construction cost and capital costs, and some“internal rent” that often also includes times a supplement for tenant costs for central premises. The internal rent adaptations. that departments pay per square ­metre can MARKET RISKS therefore be higher than the price per Financing square metre that Akademiska Hus has Property agreed with the centre of education. Location Counterparty AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 36 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS We strive for openness in negotiations with customers, and through our experience and long-term relationships we can often find solutions to use premises wisely and efficiently. Detailed information about how rents are set and rent levels per building can be found in our property specification at akademiskahus.se. HÅLL NOLLAN Akademiska Hus was one of the players that saw the need for and took the initiative to establish an industry-wide organisation for safer construction sites. In 2017 the Håll Nollan organisation was formed, which now has over 70 members. In a relatively short time Håll Nollan has become established in the industry and is an important participator and a forum for focusing on safety issues. The objective is clear – no one should sustain injuries at construction sites in Sweden. In 2019 we participated in an array of activities within the Håll Nollan initiative, including leadership training in safety culture, formulation and implementation of training in safer work environments for property developers, and creating and awarding the Håll Nollan work environment award. We also formulated a standard for entrepreneurs with associated work environment guides and participated in safety visits and seminars. For Akademiska Hus, Håll Nollan is an important forum for exchanging experiences and we are pleased to share the lessons of our own development work in safety issues and the work environment with others through this important collaborative initiative. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 37 CARING FOR PEOPLE The employees are key to achieving our goals We have an important mission – to work with our customers to provide students and researchers with the best possible conditions and by doing so we can strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. In order to succeed there is one key factor – our employees. LEADERSHIP HEALTH Strong leadership is essential for successfully creating commitOver the course of the year we focused on initiatives that will ment. We focus on continually strengthening our managers and enable employees to have a sustainable working life. We entraining in practical tools in order to pursue our ongoing change courage and motivate our employees through targeted initiainitiatives. tives and an improved wellness system. We have successfully This year’s mandatory training programme for all managers raised the commitment to personal health with 81 per cent of therefore had the theme To lead in change. The focus during the employees using their wellness allowance. year has also been on continued work with appraisal assignment. Prevention is important, for which reason initiatives have Managers and employees work to­gether to formulate a clear job been implemented related to an array of health-promoting acmission describing the performance expected of the employee, tivities. Together, our dedicated wellness coaches all over the what is to be achieved and when it should be ready, as well as what country have contributed to the wellness theme of the year – the employee needs to accomplish this mission. All employees Balance. Activities such as workshops on motivation and d ­ aily will have a clear m ­ ission with supportive activities so that together exercise have been carried out based on the theme, supplewe will achieve Akademiska Hus’ goals. mented with the opportunity for online exercise programmes. In addition, a weekly newsletter filled with inspiration on the EXPERTISE Balance theme has been available to our employees to inspire We continue our aggressive initiative to expand the offering at them to pursue a healthier lifestyle (read more on pages 119–120). Akademin, our internal education platform for active skills enhancement. During the year we have focused on developing EQUALLY UNIQUE both the interactive and teacher-led trainings within the areas We work to create a working climate where equal treatment, that are of great relevance for the employees to be able to do equal opportunity and diversity are obvious integral compotheir jobs. With rapid digital developments, it is important that nents of the operation, internally as well as externally. During our employees have a high level of digital expertise and feel the year we continued to work with Equally Unique, our equal confident with the tools we use. treatment plan, with a focus on skills-based recruitment. We All facility engineers have been offered the opportunity to also offered internships and summer jobs as part of the plan. complete competence based certification through the industry In conjunction with International Work Environment Day organisation ­FAVAL, an initiative for which about 75 per cent of for the year, we addressed issues such as bullying, gossip and facility ­engineers accepted the challenge. The goal is for training harassment for all employees through joint group activities. to be offered to everyone who is interested in becoming certified. We consider certification to be a very important measure for DESIGNATED EXCELLENT EMPLOYER creating legitimacy and for raising the skill level among employees In 2019 Akademiska Hus was designated an “Excellent Employer” who meet our customers. We also hope to stimulate interest in by Nyckeltalsinstitutet. The survey relates to actual, measurable the opportunities offered by the property industry. working conditions and in their Attractive Employer Index survey we ranked among the top ten employers. The award shows that we are on the right path in our initiatives to create the right working conditions for our employees. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 38 CARING FOR PEOPLE FOUR FACTORS FOR SUCCESS Akademiska Hus faces a profound development journey in which our employees have a key role. Committed employees and responsible leadership are crucial to our success. That is why we need: • Involvement of employees regarding the mission and vision to create strong commitment. • Strengthen an innovation-oriented c ­ ulture and view digitalisation as an enabler in the development of our deliverables to the customer. • Gearing up digital skills as a natural part of the job. • Dynamic working methods based on a learning organisation. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 39 Contents ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing42 Property valuation 45 Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants 46 Risks and Risk management 47 Corporate Governance Report 51 Board of Directors 58 Executive Management 59 Other information 60 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Income Statements 62 Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 63 Statement of financial position 66 Changes in equity 70 Statements of Cash Flows 72 Notes74 Certification105 Audit Report 106 Administration Report The Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus AB (publ), company registration number 556459-9156, hereby submit the 2019 Annual Report for the Group and the Parent Company. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 41 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing Uncertainty regarding the global economy increased during the year. Interest rates remain at low levels. Akademiska Hus’ liquidity has been strong during the year and three bond issues took place, totalling SEK 2,700 million. FINANCIAL MARKETS IN 2019 horizon, and believes that inflation will only temporarily deviThe year began in an environment of political uncertainty with ate from the target, for which reason it raised interest rates by economic indicators signaling weak growth. Despite relatively 0.25 percentage points in December. However, the central bank good resilience in the US economy, uncertainty about the ecopolicy rate is expected to remain at zero per cent throughout nomic outlook resulted in both lower stock exchanges and lower essentially the entire forecast period in order to help achieve long-term interest rates at the end of 2018. Uncertainty regardthe two per cent inflation target. ing a US-China trade agreement and the uncertainty relating to the terms and conditions of Brexit occasionally strengthened the FINANCING IN 2019 cyclical turmoil in 2019, resulting in lower long-term interest After a period of high activity in the bond market, much of rates, especially in the summer, both internationally and in Akademiska Hus’ financing needs in 2019 were pre-financed. Sweden. As a result, several central banks shifted to a more exIn addition, liquidity was further strengthened by the property pansionary monetary policy, where the US Federal Reserve (the sales that occurred during the year. Cash flow from operations Fed) went from interest rate hikes in 2018 to three rate cuts in has largely financed investments in the Akademiska Hus prothe fall of 2019. ject portfolio of about SEK 3,200 million. The dividend to the The European Central Bank (ECB) also changed direction owner was SEK 1,663 million, and bonds maturing in 2019 towards a more expansive monetary policy. In the autumn, amounted to SEK 2,400 million. During of the year, three interest rates were cut by 0.10 percentage points to -0.50 per bonds were issued for a total of about SEK 2,700 million, incent, at the same time that the bond purchasing programme cluding SEK 1,500 million that related to Akademiska Hus’ first was reinstated to stimulate the European economy, which is green bond, which was based on the green framework completed showing clear signs of a slowdown, especially in the German during the spring. Issuances for the year mainly involved invesautomotive industry. During the autumn, the ECB also called for tors in Sweden, but also in Central Europe, with maturities of 5 fiscal stimulus measures in those countries within the eurozone and 26 years, respectively, thereby contributing to continued that are able to pursue such policies without challenging the diversification of both the investor base and bonds maturing budget and debt ratios, to dampen the downturn. over time. See the financing maturity structure in the diagram The Swedish economy also entered a calmer phase. The below and the composition of financing sources on page 44. Swedish Central Bank does not see any major recession on the LONG DEBT MATURITY STRUCTURE SEK bn 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2048 Year ECP EMTN CHF EMTN other MTN/EMTN SEK Other AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 42 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing The ECP programme continues to be Akademiska Hus’ priFINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT mary source of short-term funding. Conditions for short-term Exposure to financial risks is based on the capital structure funding, which is highly cost-effective, have been good during with the distribution between loans and equity. Higher debt ratio the year. Use of the ECP programme has increased somewhat entails greater exposure to financial risks. One of the owner obduring the year. The domestic commercial paper programme jectives for Akademiska Hus reflects this since the equity ratio, has not been used since 2017. Committed credit facilities have as resolved by the April 2019 Annual General Meeting, must fall been maintained at SEK 5,500 million, of which SEK 3,500 milwithin a range of 35 to 45 per cent. lion was extended and thus has a maturity of two years, with The main financial risks that the debt management policy the option for a one-year extension on one more occasion. The addresses involve exposure to interest rate and refinancing risk. remaining SEK 2,000 million has a term of 12 months. All credit Normally, financial markets price in long-term fixed interest facilities were unutilised at year-end. Combined with the ECP periods and maturities at higher risk premiums. The objective of and bond issuances, sales and quarterly rental payments, access debt management is therefore to balance the additional costs of to liquidity has been strong during the year. long-term fixed interest periods and maturities, and thus limit uncertainty, against savings of more short-term fixed interest OUTLOOK FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN 2020 periods and maturities, where greater uncertainty is accepted. Akademiska Hus’ investment rate in its own project portfolio remains high. Investments of about SEK 2,500 million are exThe liability portfolio is allocated as follows: pected during 2020, which are largely funded by cash flow from • Basic portfolio – ECP, commercial papers, loans, bonds operations. Bonds maturing in 2020 amount to approximately and interest rate derivatives. SEK 1,400 million. • Long-term portfolio – bonds denominated in SEK with Although financial market sentiment has responded positively both fixed interest and maturity terms longer than 15 years. to the progress relating to trade agreements and Brexit at year• Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real end 2019/2020, the persistent uncertainty is difficult to assess. interest rate. European and Swedish monetary policy suggest that policy rates will be maintained at a very low level. At the same time, INTEREST RISK low bond yields with negative European ten-year treasury rates The bonds in the long-term portfolio contribute to an extremely and the Swedish equivalent hovering around zero per cent, inlong fixed interest period and account for a significant portion dicate expectations of an extended period of low growth and inof the interest rate risk exposure in the total portfolio. One of flation. In a situation with additional geopolitical advances or the mandates for interest rate risk therefore relates to the proimproved economic prospects, however, interest rates could portion of the total portfolio that the long-term portfolio may quickly rise, given the low-interest environment that still preconstitute. vails. Interest rate risk at Akademiska Hus is largely being manThe index-linked bond portfolio entails diversification of the aged through interest derivatives, mainly in order to lengthen liability portfolio and is justified because rental income from duration. Debt management in 2020 will continue to focus on property operations is largely tied to inflation. The index-­linked allocating interest rate duration to the periods of the yield curve bond portfolio’s proportion of the total portfolio also represents deemed to be effective. a separate mandate. FINANCING PROGRAMMES AND RATING Utilised Rating Framework nominal Board of Directors Rating Standard & Poor’s Moody’s 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 Committed credit facilities in bank SEK 5,500 m Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m ECP (Euro Commercial Paper) A1+ P-1 EUR 1,200 m EUR 344 m MTN (Medium Term Note)1 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 650 m EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 4,000 m EUR 2,729 m 1) Not updated since 2009. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing Interest rate risk is primarily managed in the basic portfolio, Outcome Financial risks Mandate 31 Dec. 2019 where the mandate is defined as a range for average duration. Refinancing risk The choice of fixed interest period in the basic portfolio and the portion of debt maturing size of the long-term portfolio are of great importance for inwithin 12 months Max 40% of total portfolio 17.6% terest rate risk exposure in the liability portfolio. In recent years Interest risk the average fixed interest period in the total portfolio has been average fixed interest, relatively long (see diagram below), which contributes to the basic portfolio 3–6 years 3.6 years preservation of the stability of overall financing costs over time. proportion long-term portfolio Max 20% of total portfolio 16.8% proportion index-linked REFINANCING RISK bond portfolio Max 5% of total portfolio 1.5% Counterparty risk Limit system and CSA The mandate for refinancing risk is defined as the share of loans agreements with derivative maturing within 12 months. To manage refinancing risk, the transactions Satisfied aim is to establish a well-diversified liability portfolio to ensure Foreign currency risk No currency exposure with foreign financing is allowed Satisfied that it is possible to finance through various creditor categories, geographic markets, currencies and maturities at any time. The extensive bond issuances in recent years have helped to substantially reduce the risk of refinancing in the near future and contributed to a distribution of maturities over an extended period of time. The diagram below on the right shows how the proportion of maturities due within twelve months has developed over time. The mandate for the debt portfolio is presented in the Risk section on page 50 and note 21. The table on the right shows the mandate as well as outcome at year-end. FIXED INTEREST PERIOD IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO PERCENTAGE MATURING % Duration in years 100 10 8 80 6 60 4 40 2 20 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year Limit for percentage maturing within rolling 12 months Percentage loans, gross, maturing within rolling 12 months FINANCING SOURCES Billions 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2019 Year National Bank CP ECP EMTN CHF EMTN other MTN/EMTN SEK Other Debt Office loans Tabellens dataordning: Övrigt MTN/EMTN SEK Riksgälden EMTN övrigt EMTN CHF ECP CP Banklån AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 44 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property valuation Akademiska Hus has a well-designed internal process for property valuation that is quality assured and follows good market practices in the property industry. External valuations and assessments of valuation parameters enhance the reliability of the process. VALUATION METHODS valued accord­ing to the sales comparison approach based on The fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio is asexternal valuations from qualified valuation professionals. sessed quarterly using the cash flow method and/or the sales To verify the internal valuation, about 25–30 per cent of the comparison approach. Under the cash flow method, a property property holdings are also valued each year by external valuais valued based on the sum of forecasted net operating income tion professionals. During the year, properties with a combined during a set period, as well as the residual value of the property value of about SEK 28 billion, corresponding to about 30 per after the end of the calculation period. Forecasted net operatcent of Akademiska Hus’ total fair value as at 31 Dec. 2019, were ing income and residual value are restated to reflect the value valued by external professionals. The valuations were carried at the beginning of the calculation period, that is, the present out by Svefa AB, who is authorised by the Swedish Society of point in time. The factor used to restate cash flows is called the Real Estate Economics. The external valuations confirm the recost of capital and is determined based on estimated yield reliability of our internal valuation model. All property valuation quirement and expected inflation. The yield requirement is a includes elements of assessment that have a certain degree of key measure of risk in the property industry and reflects the reuncertainty. A normal uncertainty range in property valuation turn an investor would demand for a property on an open and is +/five to ten per cent, which for Akademiska Hus would be transparent transaction market at a specific point in time. Valequivalent to approximately +/SEK 4,570 million to SEK 9,140 uation with the sales comparison approach uses key figures million. Read Note 12 on page 84 for a more detailed descripfrom known transactions where comparable properties have tion of Akademiska Hus’ valuation process. been sold. Akademiska Hus’ valuation process complies with good market practice in the property industry and the cash flows and yield DISTRIBUTION VALUATION METHODS targets that are used are justified based on both property-specific and industry-specific conditions. Rental revenue is calculated based on current leases and an assessment of market rent Cash flow method, 87% level is made after the term of the lease has expired. Operating Other valuation method, 12% costs are estimated based on the normalised historical outcome Sales comparison approach (expansion reserve), 1% of each property, while maintenance costs and property administration costs are assessed based on actual costs and key figures for the industry. Each year Akademiska Hus allows the yield requirement, cost of capital and other valuation conditions to be verified by external independent valuation agencies. RESIDUAL VALUE RISK At the end of the year the fair value of Akademiska Hus’ Akademiska Hus is active in the market for premises for higher property portfolio was SEK 91 billion. About SEK 79 billion or education and research. The majority of our premises consist of 87 per cent of the value was assessed through a ten-year cash offices and classrooms, which have a low degree of customisaflow model where yield requirements and cost of capital are detion. However, certain premises require a higher degree of custermined based on 156 different risk classes based on location, tomisation, such as laboratories and other technologically adremaining lease term and type of premise. For approximately vanced premises. These spaces are often designed for a specific SEK 11 billion or 12 per cent of the property holdings, primarily tenant, and may require significant investments to modernise new construction and properties under construction, the calcuor possibly to repurpose the premises in case a tenant chooses lation period and yield requirement have been permitted to to leave after the end of the contract period. The residual value vary on an individual basis to reflect specific conditions. Exrisk for customised properties is quantified through charges in pansion reserves (building rights and raw land) comprise of apestimated cash flow and direct yield requirements. proximately SEK 1 billion or 1 per cent of the portfolio and are AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 45 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants The majority of Akademiska Hus’ revenue, approximately 90 per cent, comes from colleges and universities. Since colleges and universities are essentially government agencies, this customer group has the highest credit rating. Long leases ensure that investments are repaid during the term high compared with the sector at large, since leases are usually of the lease. During the year the average lease term for new signed before new projects can begin. We work proactively to leases was 10.5 years (10.5). At year-end, the average remaining facilitate new rentals and thereby minimise the financial valease term for all properties was 6.5 years (6.5). Currently, govcancy rate, which may entail adaptations and investments in ernment approval is required for a public university or college existing premises. to sign a lease of ten years or longer. HIGH LEASING LEVEL TENANT CATEGORIES The rentable area of the property portfolio at year-end was 3.3 million square metres with a vacancy rate of 3.8 per cent (4.3), which corresponds with 125,000 square metres (144,000). The Colleges and universities, 85% financial vacancy rate accounted for 2.2 per cent (1.7) of our toPublicly financed operations, 4% tal rental revenue. The increased financial vacancy rate is atChalmersfastigheter, 4% tributable to occupancy changes at Karolinska Institutet resultOther, 7% ing from the completion of Biomedicum. The occupancy rate is LEVEL OF VACANT SPACE MATURITY STRUCTURE ON LEASES % SEK m 6 900 5 800 4 700 600 3 500 2 400 300 1 200 0 100 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year 0 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 Year % of rent % of area 10 largest customers, annual rent, 2019 SEK m % Karolinska Institutet 724 12.2 Lund University 598 10.1 AVERAGE REMAINING LEASE TERM Uppsala University 537 9.0 Year Royal Institute of Technology 523 8.8 10 Stockholm University 521 8.8 8 University of Gothenburg 346 5.8 6 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 319 5.4 4 Linköping University 317 5.3 Umeå University 273 4.6 2 Chalmersfastigheter AB 187 3.1 0 00 05 10 15 19 Year Total 4,345 73,1 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 46 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management By being aware of our risks, we can prevent and manage them, which will contribute to long-term value creation in which both opportunities and risks are taken into account. Risk management is an integral component in our operations management, where we take a structured approach to identifying risks that can affect our ability to achieve our goals. STRUCTURED RISK MANAGEMENT ON MULTIPLE LEVELS RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Risk management occurs on several levels in the Company and With a well-balanced approach to risk management, we ininvolves employees from all units. Using the company’s goals crease the opportunities for reaching our goals as well as the and strategy as a point of departure, Executive Management prospects for taking advantage of available business opportuniidentifies risks on a company-wide level. The risks are assessed ties. Examples of areas that present opportunities, but are also based on the probability that they will occur and the conseassociated with risks, are the rapid digitalisation and technoquences they would have. Both of these parameters are then logical developments currently underway in society. These weighted together to achieve a risk level. The risks that are contrends present great opportunities to streamline our property sidered to be the most significant are taken into account in the management and develop new services, but we also realise that business plan, which is adopted by the Board. Executive Manthey entail risks for us. To take advantage of the opportunities, agement is responsible for identifying measures and ensuring we need to adopt the new technology and adapt our operations, that risks are managed. which requires that we have the right skills. Such developments On a unit level, analyses are carried out to identify risks that also entail an increased need for focused and effective informacould significantly impact the ability of the unit to achieve its tion security procedures. The climate issue is another field that goals, after which they are assessed in a similar manner as comcontinues to be in focus and that promotes innovative developpany-wide risks. The outcome of the risk assessment is taken ment. Climate and environment-related risks have been identiinto account when formulating the operational plans. The opfied relating both to how we are affected by climate change as a erational plans describe measures each unit takes to manage company, as well as regarding the environmental impact of our significant risks. The head of each unit is responsible for ensuroperations. ing that proposed measures are carried out. The risks identified by Executive Management as the most Risk management at Akademiska Hus is coordinated and material risks (Material Company-wide risks), as well as a nummonitored by a risk management group that includes employber of industry-specific risks and financial risks that we as ees from several staff functions who report to the Vice President. property owners and borrowers in the financial market relate to (Industry-specific risks), are described in the following section. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 47 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management Strategic risks Strategic risks originate from factors in our environment that are wholly or partly outside our direct control and influence. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT MATERIAL COMPANY-WIDE RISKS CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change may result in property damage. Properties • Continual updating of our internal specifications for Risk of negative impact on our may need to be adapted, which could lead to an increased construction to create reasonable redundancy for expected properties and campuses due need for investments in both properties (existing as well as changes caused by the climate to changes in the climate new construction) and surrounding land. • Annual risk analysis from an environmental perspective by property area • All major investment matters (SEK >10 million) are assessed from a climate perspective PACE OF DEVELOPMENT Digitalisation changes the conditions in our industry while • Updated short-term strategy (2019–2021) Risk that we are unable to meet offering new opportunities to streamline our operation and • Broad digital transformation of our existing operations customer expectations because to develop our business model to create new values for our (working methods, infrastructure, expertise and tools) we fail to adapt quickly enough customers and owner. If we do not keep pace with the changing • Development of new business models based on sharing to the new conditions associated needs of our customers, or other players on the market, we risk economy principles with digitalisation losing our position in this segment. • Transition to more dynamic and customer-centred working methods CORRECT EXPERTISE In a rapidly changing world, with accelerating digitalisation and • Conduct assignment appraisals to ensure that we have Risk of inability to deliver on technology development, growing customer demands and the the correct expertise and to identify development needs established strategies and goals need for new knowledge, we must continually ensure that our • Established education platform for internal education due to a lack of the correct employees have the right skills and expertise for their jobs. All • Targeted initiatives for different occupations such as expertise in a changing world employees need to enhance their skills to keep pace with these certification of facilities engineers changes and growing demands. • Dedicated initiatives to ensure that all employees are able Moreover, there is strong competition for talent on the labour to keep up with digital developments market in the industry and there is always a risk of losing skilled • Proactive approach to a development-oriented culture employees. DEMAND FOR PREMISES Initiatives to streamline premises together with higher educa• Designing flexible premises that can be adapted based Risk of impact on property tion institutions and the development of new workplace conon changing needs for premises or changing demand values because of new methods cepts places demands on changing business models with flexi• Develop business models to meet the demand for more of working and changing needs ble rental conditions and premise solutions. If the offering of flexible contractual terms for premises premises does not evolve, there is a risk of vacancies and • Longer lease terms apply for customised premises extensive investment needs, which would have a negative • Regular dialogue with customers impact on cash flows and property values. • Continual monitoring of demand, business models and the need for premises INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC RISKS FAIR VALUE OF THE PROPERTIES The fair value of properties is based on both external and inter• Business intelligence Risk that our financial position is nal factors such as market trends, yield targets, cost of capital, • Regular analysis of the risk profile of the property portfolio affected as a result of change in vacant space and rent trends. • Concentration of the property holdings to strategic cities the fair value of the properties For Akademiska Hus, changes in the fair value of the properprovides good development potential ties are rarely realised, for which reason the Company’s liquidity • A large share of the property portfolio is located in usually is not affected. However, this can have an impact on cohesive campuses reported profit, which can therefore show large variations • Primarily long-term contracts between the years and also affect our financial position. VACANT SPACE AND LOSS Akademiska Hus’ main customers are colleges and universities, • Design flexible premises that can be adapted based OF REVENUE a customer group with high creditworthiness. on changing needs Risk of negative impact on financial The long-term development needs of the centres of education • Specially adapted buildings generally have long-term leases performance due to vacant space (see also the risk Demand for premises) and access to research • Leases are usually signed before new construction begins and/or reduced rental revenue grants, which can be affected by factors such as political • Regular dialogue with customers decisions and economic cycles, can have an impact on both rental revenue and vacancy rate. OPERATION AND Operating and maintenance costs are affected by factors • Structured and focused work to increase energy MAINTENANCE such as electricity and water consumption, as well as price efficiency in the properties Risk of increased operating and trends for goods and services. • Long-term maintenance plans aimed at optimising maintenance costs that AkademiUnplanned maintenance or repair expenses can negatively maintenance costs over time ska Hus cannot compensate for impact financial performance and the fair value of properties. • Structured energi optimisation in collaboration with through increased rent, index our customers adjustment or further invoicing, as well as the risk of unforeseen repair and maintenance costs POLITICAL DECISIONS Akademiska Hus’ operations are affected by Government policies • Constant business intelligence and trend monitoring Risk of changing conditions as in general and education policy in particular. For example, • Continuous dialogue with owner and stakeholders a result of political decisions a change in the education policy could affect the conditions for and focus of the operation. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 48 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management Operating risks Operating risks are risks that arise in our day-to-day operations and that we can largely influence through our internal processes, working methods and corporate culture. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT MATERIAL COMPANY-WIDE RISKS PROJECT MANAGEMENT Our investment projects are often complex, take place over a • A uniform and common building process Risk of expectation gap and lack long time, include many parties and have many stakeholders. • Encourage work on process at an early stage, of goal fulfilment, as well as negFormulation and adoption of guidance towards a shared including jointly embracing vision with customers ative consequences resulting vision are crucial for successful implementation. • Gold level in the Miljöbyggnad standard for new from challenging and complex The complexity of project operations places high demands construction as well as climate neutral construction projects on ongoing development and adaptation of our project manprocess by 2045 agement to ensure that we deliver in line with expectations. • Project management training • Business advisory committee that follows development of projects • Continued development of customer dialogue • “Standard building” as vision for construction costs DELIVERABLES TO CUSTOMER In order to improve deliverables to the customer, we need to • A customer-focused organisation Risk that our delivery to the cusincrease our responsiveness and strengthen our collaboration • Strengthen strategic collaboration with core customers tomer is not, or is perceived not and dialogue with customers. We also need to develop our by entering into partnership agreements to be, good enough due to lack deliverables by leveraging the potential of new technology • Strengthened coordination of our collective deliverables of understanding of the customand digitalisation. to customer er’s operations, as well as inadeThe risk also includes our ability to coordinate our delivera• Continued focus on improved communication to customer quate responsiveness to the bles so that the customer experiences seamless delivery from • Develop incident reporting procedures and the ability customer’s needs Akademiska Hus. Success factors entail benefitting from the to work proactively by leveraging digital tools, thereby potential of digitalisation, cooperating internally and learning enhancing the customer experience from one another. • Process and development groups for spreading good working methods • Developed dialogue with the customer to explore how our deliverables are perceived and how they can be improved INFORMATION SECURITY The importance of clear and developed structures and proce• Transparency and risk analysis of information security Risk that information is lost, dures for ensuring a good standard of information security in• Continued development of our system administration winds up in the wrong hands, or creases in pace with digitalisation, a development that is comto ensure effective information security procedures is not available due to shortcomplex and accelerating. • Prepare a training plan to increase and maintain skills ings in our information security Inadequate internal procedures or insufficient protection and awareness throughout the organisation against, for example, external intrusions entail a risk of sensi• Integrate information security more clearly as part of tive information being lost or falling into the wrong hands, the relationship with external parties which could have serious consequences and damage trust. UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR – Improper or unethical behaviour such as substandard working • Systematic supplier reviews EXTERNAL PARTY conditions, corruption or negative environmental impact in• Ongoing work to strengthen control and transparency Risk of financial consequences volving a supplier, subcontractor or other external party linked in the ordering process and reduced trust as a result to Akademiska Hus could have a negative impact on us. This • Follow-up of contractual compliance of unethical behaviour among risk also includes the possibility that an external party could • Code of Conduct for suppliers external parties with a link to commit a crime against Akademiska Hus. Akademiska Hus INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC RISKS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our operations affect the environment both locally and • Identified how we as a company can contribute to the Risk of a negative impact on the globally. Both construction and property management are global sustainability goals in Agenda 2030 environment as a result of our associated with heavy consumption of resources such as • The sustainability perspective is fully integrated into business of building and managmaterials and energy. In addition, new construction usually our overarching goals ing properties and developing occupies undeveloped land and sometimes also has an • Climate neutrality targets established for the operation campuses impact on green areas. • Strong focus on sustainability when developing campuses • All new construction will certify according to gold rating in the Miljöbyggnad certification system and all major renovation projects according to silver rating. New construction and major renovation projects of student housing should fulfill the criteria for silver rating int the Miljöbyggnad certification system at a minimum and formal certification is encouraged. • Materials used in our projects are assessed with regard to their impact on the environment through the Byggvaru­ bedömningen (BVB) scheme • We are environmentally certified to ISO 14001:15 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 49 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management Compliance risks Compliance risks address how we, as a company and as individual employees, comply with laws as well as external and internal regulations. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT MATERIAL COMPANY-WIDE RISKS UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR – Unethical behaviour can have major negative consequences • Ethics Council INTERNAL PARTY for Akademiska Hus, both financially and in the form of dam• Code of Conduct Risk of financial consequences aged trust in relation to our owner, customers and other • Guidelines for business ethics and damaged trust as a result of stakeholders. Theft, accepting bribes, or using a supplier’s • Online training linked to the internal training platform employees who do not comply dependence on Akademiska Hus for private advantage are • Clear information on current regulations as part of the with applicable laws, as well as examples of unethical behaviours that are not permitted. new employee introduction process internal and external regulations • Continual work on values and corporate culture • Whistle-blower system Financial risks Financial risks are primarily the specific risks that can be derived from our financing activities. The Board of Directors determines our approach to financial risks and mandate for their management through the financing policy and the financial risk management plan. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT INTEREST RISK In our capacity as a borrower, fluctuations in market interest • Interest risk is managed through the mandate for the Risk that profit will vary because rates can have a substantial impact on financial performance. fixed interest period and comprises three parts: of changes in market rates The additional cost associated with long-term fixed interest – The long-term portfolio may not exceed 20 per cent period needs to be balanced against the increased uncertainty of the total portfolio associated with a short-term fixed interest period. – The index-linked bond portfolio may not exceed 5 per cent of the total portfolio – The average fixed interest period of the basic portfolio shall be in the range of 3–6 years REFINANCING RISK In our capacity as a borrower, it is crucial to ensure access to • Refinancing risk is managed through a mandate for Risk that it will be more difficult the financing market. In a situation where financial markets maturity, expressed as the proportion of loans maturing or more expensive to obtain are not in balance and functionality is inadequate, financing within each twelve-month period may not exceed 40 per financing, for example as a result can be more difficult and considerably more costly. cent of the total portfolio of changed conditions in the When deciding on financing, the additional cost of long• Aim for cost-effective and well-balanced diversification financial market term maturity needs to be balanced against the increased of the debt portfolio uncertainty associated with short-term fixed maturity. COUNTERPARTY RISK Akademiska Hus’ exposure to counterparty risk arises • Exposure to counterparty risk is managed by imposing The risk of financial consequencfrom investment of excess liquidity and from derivative a limit based on ownership circumstances, ratings and es associated with failure of a transactions when surplus/deficit values arise. the term of the commitment. counterparty to meet its under• In derivative transactions, supplementary agreements takings to ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements, known as CSA (Credit Support Annex) agreements, are required, thereby substantially reducing exposure FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Akademiska Hus’ financing is denominated in part in foreign • When financing in a foreign currency, foreign currency Risk that financial performance currency, for which reason exposure to foreign currency risk risk must be eliminated. Exchange rate hedging is carried will vary as a result of exchange arises. out using forward rate or cross currency interest rate rate changes derivative agreements Sensitivity analysis, see page 68, Note 3 on page 79 and Note 12 on page 86. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 50 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report This corporate governance report describes the structure and principles for governance of operations at Akademiska Hus to achieve the vision of strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. With a well-supported strategy and clear allocation of responsibility between different Company bodies, the operation is efficiently governed to guide us towards our goals. FOUNDATIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of Swedish law, the State’s ownership policy and guidelines for AT AKADEMISKA HUS companies with state ownership 2017, the Swedish Code of CorAkademiska Hus AB (publ) is a property company that is wholly porate Governance (the Code) and the Articles of Association. owned by the Swedish state. Its administration is handled by Because the Company is wholly owned by the Swedish state, the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation on behalf of the certain provisions of the Code do not apply, as it is primarily Ministry of Education and Research, which is the principal. written for businesses with diversified ownership. Deviations The Company bases its corporate governance on the application from the Code are described on page 57. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Audit and 3a 1 General Meeting Finance Committee 2 External auditor Remuneration Committee 3b 3 Board of Directors Investment Committee 3c Committee for internal 4 President/management management and control Joint staff and Student Housing support functions Management unit Project unit Campus and Business Development units • North • Mid-Sweden • South AKADEMISKA HUS’ MISSION ACCORDING TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The object of the Company’s operations is to own, develop and basis and generate a yield that is in line with the market by setmanage properties for colleges and universities, where the priting rents that take into account the operating risk. Akademismary focus is on education and research, as well as activities ka Hus will work to assure the long-term, sustainable developcompatible therewith. Operations will be run on a commercial ment of university and college campuses. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 51 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 1 GENERAL MEETING Annual General Meeting 2020 The General Meeting is the highest decision-making body at The next Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2020 Akademiska Hus. The shareholder exercises influence at the in Stockholm. General Meeting. In addition, the General Meeting appoints the Board of Directors and auditor. According to the State’s 2 AUDITORS ownership policy, the Annual General Meeting must be held beThe 2019 AGM resolved to elect Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse fore 30 April each year. Notice of General Meetings shall be Coopers AB (PwC) to serve as auditors for a one-year period published no earlier than six weeks and no later than four until the 2020 AGM with Helena Ehrenborg as lead auditor. weeks prior to the Meeting in post and domestic newspapers, as The auditors perform a limited review of the interim report as well as on the Company’s website. Members of the Parliament at 30 September and audit the annual and consolidated acand the public have the right to participate and must register counts. They also conduct a management audit, as well as a limtheir participation as described in the notice. ited review of the sustainability report. In addition, the auditors express their opinions of this corporate governance report Annual General Meeting 2019 and whether Akademiska Hus complies with the Government The Annual General Meeting was held on 29 April 2019. The Guidelines for terms of employment for senior executives, and meeting was opened by Chair person of the Board Anitra Steen, submit their statements to the meeting. Every year the auditors who was also appointed to chair the proceedings. The owner review their audit plan and risk assessment with the Audit and was represented by Christine Leandersson, Ministry of EnterFinance Committee. The auditors participate in at least two prise and Innovation. committee meetings per year. Each year the auditors attend at least one meeting with the Board of Directors that is not atDecisions at the 2019 Annual General Meeting tended by the President. The Annual General Meeting adopted the income statement Akademiska Hus has no internal audit function. Instead, the and balance sheet for the 2018 financial year and discharged management allocated dedicated resources tasked with develthe Board of Directors and the President from liability for the oping and strengthening the area of internal management and year. The AGM approved the Board’s proposal for profit districontrol within Akademiska Hus where the Audit and Finance bution, which entails a dividend of SEK 1,663 million to the Committee receives regular feedback on the work. The Board of owner. Other matters addressed included resolutions about Directors believes that the best way to improve internal manAkademiska Hus’ economic targets, adoption of the principles agement and control is a long-term focused initiative in this for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior exarea. Consequently, the Board’s continued assessment is that ecutives, resolutions on fees to the Board of Directors and comno internal audit function is needed. The decision is addressed mittees, as well as election of the Chair of the Board and Board annually to be considered once again. members, as well as the auditor. The minutes and other documents related to the AGM are posted on the Akademiska Hus website akademiskahus.se. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Code of Conduct Examples of external Examples of internal governing regulations: governing regulations: • Companies Act • Rules of Procedure for the • Accounting Act Board of Directors and • Annual Accounts Act committees Board of Policies • The State’s ownership policy • Instructions to the President Directors “What” and guidelines for companies • Code of Conduct with state ownership 2017 • Allocation of responsibility • Swedish Code of Corporate and authority Executive Guidelines Governance • Financing policy Management “How” • IFRS • Sustainability policy • Code about gifts, rewards and • Procurement policy other benefits in business • Investment policy Unit and departInstructions • UN Global Compact principles • Policy for personal data ment manager “How” • Global Reporting Initiatives processing (GRI) guidelines Standards • Business ethics guidelines • Stock market rules • Equality and Diversity Plan AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 52 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Composition of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors for management of the affairs of the company. The Board of Difor Akademiska Hus shall consist of a minimum of three and a rectors convenes the Annual General Meeting. The work is maximum of ten Directors elected by the Annual General based on the Rules of Procedure adopted annually by the Board Meeting, with no deputies. Until the 2019 AGM, the Board conof Directors, which determines the allocation of work among sisted of seven Directors elected by the AGM. The Annual Genthe directors, the number of regular Board meetings, matters to eral Meeting on 29 April 2019 resolved that the Board should be addressed at regular Board meetings and the responsibilities have seven members elected by the AGM. In addition, the of the Chairman of the Board. The division of responsibilities Board includes two employee representatives designated by between the Board and the CEO is regulated by special instructheir respective trade unions. Seven Directors were re-elected tions to the President. In addition, the Rules of Procedure are at the AGM. The AGM concluded that the Board has the relevant adopted annually for each of the Board’s committees. The skills and background to manage the Company and that the Board has also adopted the “Instructions for financial reportBoard as a whole has experience of areas that are important for ing” to regulate financial reporting procedures to the Board. the Company such as corporate governance, management, the real estate industry, universities and higher education, change Nomination process and development initiatives, as well as financial expertise. Directors of state-owned enterprises are appointed through a structured nomination process with common uniform principles Work of the Board of Directors in 2019 as outlined in the State ownership policy and guidelines for In its Rules of Procedure the Board set a schedule for informacompanies with state ownership 2017. These principles replace tion and decisions during its work year that essentially follows the rules in the Code for preparation of decisions for nominathe Board’s annual cycle (see below). At all Board meetings durtion of Directors and auditors. The Board nomination process ing the year the President presents a report on significant is co-ordinated by the state ownership unit at the Ministry of events involving the Company and the respective committee Enterprise and Innovation. A consistent and structured approach chairs present reports from the committee meetings that were ensures a high standard of quality throughout the nomination held between Board meetings. During the year the Board foprocess. The need for skills is analysed based on the company’s cused in particular on issues concerning innovation, digitalisaoperations, situation and future challenges, the composition of tion, risk and internal control, information security and climate the Board and assessments of the Board. The owner’s expectatargets. In addition, a number of investment matters were adtion for diversity on the Boards of Directors under the ownerdressed. In 2019, ten regular Board meetings were held, includship policy is also observed. Upon completion of the process ing the statutory meeting. To inform and update members nominations are announced in accordance with the Code. about its activities, some Board meetings are held at the centres of education that are Akademiska Hus customers and combined wherever possible with meetings with the leadership of these institutions. The attendance by the members of the Board of Directors is presented in the tables on the next page. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ ANNUAL CYCLE Quarter 1 • Year-end report Quarter 4 • Investment matters • Annual Report and Sustainability Report • Interim report Q3 • Investment matters 4 1 • Principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives • Business concept • Notice of Annual General Meeting • Risk plan Quarter 2 • Interim report Q1 Quarter 3 2 • Investment matters • Interim report Q2 • Investment matters 3 • • Statutory meeting Board of Directors’ Rules of Procedure, instructions to the President and other policy documents • EMTN prospectus • External analysis and strategy meeting AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 53 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report Presence/ 3b The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Total number of meetings are as follows: Anitra Steen, chair person 10/10 – Prepare decisions regarding terms and conditions for salaries and employment for the President and Anders Larsson 7/10 senior executives. Anna Magnusson 9/10 – Formulate proposals for guidelines for remuneration Britta Burreau 10/10 and other terms of employment for the President Christer Nerlich 10/10 and other senior executives. Ingemar Ziegler 9/10 – Monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines Peter Gudmundson 10/10 for remuneration to senior executives prior to adoption Thomas Jennlinger 10/10 by the AGM. Örjan Wikforss 10/10 – Serve as advisory body to the President regarding succession planning and appointment of senior executives. – Propose appropriate employment contract templates Board committees for senior executives to the Board of Directors. The Board has established three committees to specifically monitor and prepare Board issues within their respective focus In 2019 the Remuneration Committee also followed up on HR areas. Committee members are elected at the statutory Board activities. The attendance at the meetings by the members of meeting held immediately after the AGM. Representatives of the Board of Directors is presented in the table below. the business such as the President, CFO, Human Resources DiPresence/ rector, Market Area Director and Project Manager may particiRemuneration Committee Total number of meetings pate at committee meetings in the capacity of presenters. Anitra Steen, chair person 3/3 3a T  he primary duties of the Audit and Anna Magnusson 3/3 Finance Committee are as follows: Ingemar Ziegler 3/3 – Support and follow up financing activities. –P repare matters to be decided by the Board, including Financing Policy and a risk plan. 3c The primary duties of the Investment Committee are as –M onitor the Company’s financial reporting and follows: ensuring that it maintains a high standard of quality. – Prepare and analyse proposals for major investments. –R egarding the financial statements, monitor the – Monitor and analyse the Company’s reporting of major efficiency of the Company’s internal control systems projects in progress. and risk management. – Assist Executive Management with formulation of an in–M eet regularly with the Company’s auditors to vestment strategy. learn about the scope, focus and results of the audit. –R emain informed about the audit of the annual In 2019, the Committee continued to work on developing and accounts and the consolidated accounts. improving the investment process. The attendance at the meet–E stablish guidelines for non-audit services that ings by the members of the Board of Directors is presented in may be procured from the Company’s auditors. the table below. –P repare proposals for the election of auditors Presence/ at the Annual General Meeting. Investment Committee Total number of meetings Anitra Steen, chair person 8/8 In 2019 the focus continued to be on internal control, where the committee particularly monitored developments in the risk Ingemar Ziegler 8/8 management process. Moreover, the committee discussed releÖrjan Wikforss 8/8 vant accounting regulations. The attendance at the meetings by the members of the Board of Directors is presented in the table Evaluation of the work of the Board and the President below. The Board of Directors conducts an annual evaluation of the Presence/ work of the Board and the President. The evaluation takes Audit and Finance Committee Total number of meetings place either internally or externally with the aim of developing Christer Nerlich, chair person 7/7 the working forms and efficiency of the Board of Directors. The results of the evaluation are presented to both the Chair person Britta Burreau 7/7 and the Board of Directors as a whole. The owner, through the Peter Gudmundson 7/7 Government Offices, is also informed about the results of the AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 54 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report evaluation. The work of the Government Offices related to the vestments. Student housing, which in 2018 became an indeBoard nomination process also includes an ongoing evaluation pendent unit, is responsible for developing campus-based unof the boards of all state-owned companies, which includes dergraduate and graduate student housing. The organisation their work, the composition of the Board and their skills. focuses on the management business, creates conditions to achieve our strategic goals and makes it possible to adapt the 4 THE COMPANY’S ORGANISATION company faster and more efficiently to external changes. President and Executive Management The President, or the Vice President acting on behalf of the Joint staff and support functions President, is responsible for ongoing management in compliance A number of staff and support functions with a variety of areas with applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with of expertise provide support to management and the business the instructions for the President approved by the Board. Execin its day-to-day work. Organisationally, HR falls under the utive Management consists of eleven members including the President, including common service, innovation and sustainaPresident. Executive Management is a forum for information ble development, communication and legal affairs, including and decisions regarding joint strategic Company matters and purchasing. Business, finance, IT, analysis and valuation, risk often serves as the steering committee for strategically imporcontrol, controlling and risk management are subordinate to tant projects. In addition to the President, the Executive Manthe Chief Financial Officer, who in turn is subordinate to the agement team comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Project President. Director, three Market Area Directors, Administrative Manager, Corporate Communications Officer, Head of Innovation and Committee for internal management and control Sustainable Development, the Human Resources Director and In 2019 a committee for internal management and control was the General Counsel, all of whom report directly to the Presicreated. The committee serves as support for the President to dent. The Company’s General Counsel serves as secretary for develop work with governance, risk management and internal the Executive Management team. Executive Management has control. The committee consists of the President, the Chief Fian even distribution between the number of men and women. nancial Officer, General Counsel and process developers for internal management and control. Developments take place in 3a Operational units close collaboration with the Audit and Finance Committee. The Company’s main processes are conducted within four operational units. The Management unit is responsible for manSUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE OF AKADEMISKA HUS agement deliverables with a focus on customer benefit, ensures The Board of Directors is responsible, based on instructions sustainable and efficient operation, and pursues energy effiprovided by the owner, for adopting a strategy and objectives ciency improvements and digitalisation of the property manfor the company. A detailed structure provides support for how agement organisation. The Project unit is responsible for effiAkademiska Hus should be managed, with sustainability as a cient project deliverables with a focus on customer benefit, key component. ensuring high standards for sourcing and project leadership The strategy and operational planning process is carried out skills, while creating conditions for efficient and sustainable annually, beginning with strategy days held for the Board and management. The Campus and Business Development unit is management. The sustainability perspective has been fully individed into three geographic areas: North, Mid-Sweden and tegrated into the adopted strategy in a sustainable objective. South. The unit’s primary areas of responsibility include strateThis approach includes the global objectives for sustainable degic customer relationships, development of knowledge and velopment, which is in line with owner expectations. In addition learning environments of the future, strategic campus and to the strategy, individual climate targets have been defined. property development, and overarching responsibility for inThe business plan and associated scorecard are formulated STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL PLANNING 1 2 3 4 5 Akademiska Hus Strategy & Business plan Operational plan Assignment Assignment overarching goal & scorecard & scorecard appraisal Owner level Company level Company level Unit, staff and Employee level (determined by (determined by support level the Board) the Board) AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 55 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report based on the adopted strategy. The Company-wide business The members of the Board of Directors who are employed plan is based on operational plans and budgets for operational within Akademiska Hus and the Government Offices do not reunits, as well as joint staff and support functions. The plan and ceive any fee for this work. See the table on page 83 for inforscorecard specify activities to be implemented to achieve both mation about remuneration. strategic goals and climate targets, as well as key figures for Payment to the President and other senior executives commeasurement and follow-up purposes. prises a basic salary and a pension. Payment to the President is The adopted business plan is followed up on a regular basis decided by the Board of Directors following a recommendation through the President’s quarterly reporting to the Board of from the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration to other Directors. In addition, quarterly feedback sessions are held at senior executives is decided by the President following consulthe unit level with the coordinators of the respective operational tation with the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comunits and joint staff and support functions. The potential of each prises a basic salary and a defined contribution pension based employee to both contribute and influence the work of achieving on the ITP premiums according to a collective agreement. No the common goals is clarified through the assignment appraisal, variable or bonus-based remuneration is paid. Salary surveys which is an advanced form of the performance review. are conducted to make a comparison with other property comThe Board of Directors is also ultimately responsible for ensurpanies. Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors ing that the Company is run in compliance with laws and reguand senior executives for 2020 will be adapted to the update of lations, as well as the guidelines provided by the owner. As part the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance that applies from of this work, the Board adopts relevant policies and governing 1 January 2020. documents annually, see the chart presenting the governance For a detailed description of remuneration, pensions, peristructure on page 52. The strategy and operational planning ods of notice, severance pay and fees to auditors, see the adprocess, along with the adopted governing documents, serve as ministration report on page 60 and Notes 10 and 11. the foundation for the overarching governance of the Company. INTERNAL CONTROL OF FINANCIAL REPORTING CODE OF CONDUCT, ETHICS COUNCIL AND The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for internal WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM control of financial reporting, as regulated by the Swedish Akademiska Hus has a Code of Conduct that outlines the ethiCompanies Act and the Code. The following section has been cal business behaviour expected of its employees. A basic reprepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the quirement is to act in compliance with the principles of the UN Code and is thus limited to internal control of financial reportGlobal Compact, Agenda 2030, the UN Guiding Principles on ing, which aims to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Business and Human Rights, the ILO Core Conventions and the reliability of external financial reporting in the form of interim OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. For the Comreports and annual reports. Internal control at Akademiska pany’s employees there are also business ethics guidelines Hus is based on the COSO Framework for Internal Control, based on the rules in the Code regarding gifts, rewards and othwhich is an established framework. er benefits in business. This provides guidance on how employIn 2019, an internal review was also carried out with the aim ees should behave and provides guidance in potentially difficult of creating a picture of the current situation, both in terms of situations. An Ethics Council provides support to employees to what works well and what can be strengthened; the results which questions or suspected deviations from ethical guidewere provided to the Audit and Finance Committee. lines or other irregularities can be reported. A code of conduct is enclosed for suppliers as part of all tenControl environment ders, which each tenderer must read, accept and ensure that The basis for internal control comprises the control environsubcontractors, if any, also comply with the code. ment in the organisation and decision procedures, as well as Akademiska Hus has also set up an independent system for roles and responsibilities. Each year the Board of Directors whistle-blowing, to which both Akademiska Hus employees and adopts a number of policy documents such as the Rules of Proexternal parties can anonymously report suspected irregularities. cedure for the Board of Directors and its committees, instrucIn 2019 the Company received no reports about corruption that tions to the President, allocation of responsibility and authoriled to a police complaint through the Ethics Council, whistle-­ ty, instructions for financial reporting, plan for handling blower system or directly from employees. financial risks and policies. The control environment also encompasses the culture and the values based on which the Board REMUNERATION of Directors and corporate management communicate and act, The AGM resolved on principles for remuneration and other terms which is communicated in part via the Code of Conduct that is and conditions of employment for executives. The principles are adopted annually by the Board of Directors. in line with the State’s “Guidelines for terms and conditions of The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the internal employment for senior executives in state-owned companies”. allocation of work within its committees are clarified in the A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors acRules of Procedure. The Board of Directors has established an cording to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. Audit and Finance Committee which has tasks that include AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 56 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report preparing the Board’s work with quality assurance of the Comance sheet date. In addition, the Audit and Finance Committee pany’s financial reporting. The Chief Financial Officer is rereceives regular feedback regarding the initiatives conducted sponsible for ensuring that internal accounting policies and with the aim of strengthening and developing internal manageguidelines for financial reporting are in place and formulated in ment and control within Akademiska Hus as a whole. The Audit compliance with current legal requirements, listing requirements and Finance Committee also receives regular feedback from and accounting standards. the external auditors and is thereby kept up to date on current observations related to internal management and control. Risk assessments External reporting complies with the State’s ownership poliAkademiska Hus has an established process to identify, assess and cy guidelines. Financial information in the form of the annual manage risks where each risk has a risk owner. Risk management report and year-end report is available on the Akademiska Hus comprises an integral component of operations management, website www.akademiskahus.se. where risk analyses are conducted on both a Company-wide and unit level. The material risks that are identified are docuFollow-up and evaluation mented together with measures in business and operational Internal control of financial reporting is monitored and evaluplans to allow for follow up. For a more extensive description, ated continuously by the Board of Directors, President, Execusee the risk section in the annual report on pages 47–50. tive Management and the accounting and finance departments Risk assessments to identify and evaluate the processes where to ensure that procedures are appropriate and efficient. Imthe greatest risk of errors that could have a material impact on provement and development opportunities are identified in financial reporting can be found, are carried out regularly. Risks this process. relating to financial reporting are regularly discussed with the On each balance sheet date, the President and Chief FinanCompany’s external auditors, who also present their annual risk cial Officer review the financials with the individual responsiassessment to the Audit and Finance Committee, as well as the ble for each operational unit to monitor and discuss the finanBoard of Directors. cial performance and important business-related matters. The overall financial results of the staff and support functions are Control activities also monitored. The Company’s internal processes and procedures provide supEach quarter the Board receives financial information and port for ongoing risk management. Control activities aimed at an analysis, as well as a report from the most recent meetings preventing, discovering and managing the risk of significant erof the different committees. The Audit and Finance Committee rors that may arise in financial reporting comprise both general has a specific responsibility to follow up audit matters and and detailed checks. Control activities take place at several difmore extensive matters of principle with regard to financial referent levels in the Company and include approval of transacporting where issues concerning property valuation and the liations, authorisation of supplier invoices and payments, account bility portfolio are particularly important. reconciliations and analytical follow-up. Moreover, the Company’s external auditors assess the interIT systems that are used for financial reporting include nal controls as part of the annual audit, after which recommenbuilt-in automatic controls to ensure reliable financial reportdations are provided. Akademiska Hus includes these recoming. There are also processes and control measures in the genmendations in the ongoing work of developing and eral IT environment regarding matters such as system permisstrengthening internal control. In addition, separate assesssions, system updates and backup procedures. As the digital ments of the special focus areas are carried out as needed, transformation is implemented, functional IT processes and inwhich has occurred in 2019. formation security will become increasingly important. Akademiska Hus works continually to improve processes linked to financial reporting. As part of developing and strengthening internal control, work is underway documenting Deviations from the code Nomination Committee and formalising controls within processes which, based on risk (Code rules 1.3–1.4, 2.1–2.7, 4.6, 8.1 and 10.2) analysis, are considered to be significant for financial reporting. The Code has mainly been prepared for companies with a spread of ownership. At such companies, the election committee is in the Information and communication first instance a body for shareholders to prepare decisions regarding appointments. For state-owned companies, the rules regarding Governing documents such as policies and guidelines are availan election committee are replaced by principles governing a able for all employees on the Company’s intranet. Internal instructured nomination process according to the Government’s formation channels in general include information from regular ownership policy. meetings of Executive Management, leadership forums held four Reporting of the independence of board members (Code rule 4.5) times a year, local information meetings for all employees and The purpose of this code rule is to protect minority shareholders meetings in various forums for concerned specialist functions. in limited liability companies, which is not applicable to wholly The Audit and Finance Committee and the Board receive fistate-owned companies. nancial information from Executive Management at each balAKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 57 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors ANITRA STEEN BRITTA BURREAU PETER GUDMUNDSON Chair person since 2016. Chair person of the Member since 2014. Board member elected in 2017. Remuneration Committee and Investment Committee. Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1955 Year of birth: 1949 Position: CEO of KPA AB and KPA Pensionsförsäkring AB. Position: Professor, Royal Institute of Technology. Other positions: Chair person AFA Försäkring och Other positions: Chair person for the Scouts. Other positions: Member of the board of Royal Teracom Group AB. Board member of Attendo AB, Director, Group management at Folksam. Chairman Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Oral Care AB, Baven AB and Pressens Opinionsnämnd. of the Board for KPA Pensionsservice AB. Previous positions: Vice-Chancellor Royal Institute of Previous positions: Under-secretary at the Ministry of Previous positions: CEO of Nordea Liv and Senior Technology, Vice Dean Royal Institute of Technology, Finance, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education Manager at Accenture. Board member Nordea Liv Head of Department Royal Institute of Technology, CEO and Ministry of Finance, Director General of the NaGroup, Board member Svensk Försäkring. SICOMP, consultant Tre Konsulter AB, and researcher tional Agency for Higher Education Services and the Education: M.Sc. Eng and Executive MBA in Finance. Brown Boveri Research Centre in Switzerland. National Tax Board, as well as CEO of Systembolaget Education: PhD. and M.Sc. Eng. AB. Chair person of Stockholm University and Board member of SAS, Södersjukhuset hospital, Lantmännen, PostNord and others. Education: BA. ANNA MAGNUSSON CHRISTER NERLICH ÖRJAN WIKFORSS Board member elected in 2018. Board member elected in 2017. Board member elected in 2017. Year of birth: 1977 Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee Year of birth: 1950 Position: Assistant undersecretary Ministry of Year of birth: 1961 Position: CEO of Arkitekturanalys AB. Enterprise and Innovation, Head of the unit for Position: Chief Financial Officer of Vasakronan. Other positions: Vice Chairman of the Board of state-owned enterprises. Previous positions: Chief Financial Officer of Directors of the Royal Swedish Opera, Board member Previous positions: Assistant undersecretary AP Fastigheter and Corporate finance NewSec. of Tengbomgruppen AB and member of the Royal Ministry of Finance, Expert Ministry of Finance, Education: MBA. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. and Legal Counsel Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB. Previous positions: Professor in project communicaEducation: LLM. BA. tion, Royal Institute of Technology. CEO of FFNS Arkitekter and Wikforss Arkitektkontor. Education: Architect, PhD. and professor. INGEMAR ZIEGLER THOMAS JENNLINGER ANDERS LARSSON Member since 2007. Employee representative (Ledarna union) since 2008. Employee representative (SEKO union) since 2009. Year of birth: 1947 Year of birth: 1956 Year of birth: 1963 Position: CEO IZAB. Position: Operating manager Akademiska Hus. Position: Operating engineer at Akademiska Hus. Previous positions: CEO of AB Storstockholms Education: Operating manager. Education: Production engineering studies. Lokaltrafik, Locum AB, Diösförvaltning, Stockholms Markoch Lokaliseringsbolag. Finance Secretary of the City of Stockholm. Education: BA. AUDITORS Helena Ehrenborg, Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC). Lead auditor since 2018. Authorised public accountant. Year of birth: 1965 Education: MBA. Other audit assignments, selection: Vasakronan AB, Jernhusen AB, HSB Riksförbund, Pandox AB and Atrium Ljungberg. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 58 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report Executive Management KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON CATARINA FRITZ JONAS BJUGGREN President. Employed 2011. Chief Financial Officer and Vice President. Administrative Manager. Employed 2017. Year of birth: 1956 Employed 2016. Year of birth: 1974 Other positions: Board member of Sveaskog, Hemnet Year of birth: 1963 Other positions: Board member of Kungsleden AB. Group AB and Vice Chair person Win Win Gothenburg. Other positions: Board member of Green Cargo. Previous positions: Regional Manager Vasakronan, Sustainability Award. Previous positions: CFO at Keolis Sverige, Frösunda Market Area Manager and Business Unit Manager Previous positions: Airport Director of Stockholm-­ LSS, Addici, Aditro Group and the Stockholm Stock at AP Fastigheter and Project Manager at Skanska Arlanda Airport, CFO and Vice President of the Exchange. CFO Investor. and Sweco. Scandic Group. Education: MBA. Education: M.Sc. Eng. Education: MBA. PETER BOHMAN ÅSA HENNINGE ULF DÄVERSJÖ Market Area Director. Employed 2013. Market Area Director. Employed 2019. Head of Innovation and Sustainable Development. Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1971 Employed 2014. Other positions: Board member of Luleå Science Previous positions: CEO Wästbygg Projektutveckling, Year of birth: 1979 Park AB, SLU Holding and Realus AB. Head Analyst Svefa, project manager Skanska Nya Other positions: Board member of Accessy AB. Previous positions: Terminal Manager and on-call Hem and head of marketing Lundbergs. Previous positions: Purchasing Director Akademiska Airport Director at Stockholm-Arlanda Airport. Education: M.Sc. Eng. Hus, Management Consultant Capgemini Consulting, Various management positions at Swedavia. and Global Purchaser Arla Foods. Education: MBA. Education: MBA. HAYAR GOHARY MAGNUS HUSS MARIE HALLANDER LARSSON Project Director. Employed 2007. Market Area Director. Employed 1993. Human Resources Director. Employed 2017. Year of birth: 1975 Year of birth: 1967 Year of birth: 1961 Other positions: Chair person Håll nollan. Other positions: Board member of Byggherrarna. Other positions: Brunmåla Hästklinik AB. Previous positions: Project manager for Vallentuna Previous positions: Project Manager, Head of Property Previous positions: Human Resources Director Municipality. Project manager for Akademiska Hus. Management and Property Manager for Akademiska Hus. for Försäkringskassan, Swedbank AB, Posten AB, Education: M.Sc. Eng. Engineer at the National Board of Public Buildings. Scandic Hotels AB and Wedins AB. Education: Engineering degree, technical college. Education: B.A. CAROLIN ÅBERG SJÖQVIST CECILIA WIDE General Counsel. Employed 2004. Corporate Communications Officer. Employed 2012. Year of birth: 1968 Year of birth: 1969 Previous positions: Lawyer, Advokatfirman Glimstedt Previous positions: Head of Corporate Communicaand Associate Judge of Appeal, Court of Appeal for tions at SP Sveriges Tekniska Forskningsinstitut AB. Western Sweden. Education: BA. Education: LLM AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 59 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Other information REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES amount Kerstin Lindberg Göransson may receive from other Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors employment or through other activities. and senior executives Other senior executives within the Group have an agreed Akademiska Hus follows the owner’s guidelines governing mutual period of notice of six months. In the event of notice terms and conditions of employment for senior executives. Paybeing given by the Company, severance pay is payable for a furment to the President and other senior executives comprises a ther 12 months. Salary payable or remuneration for work perbasic salary and a pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost formed during the time severance pay is received shall be set charged to the profit for the year. Payment to the President is off on a krona-by-krona basis. Other information about salaries decided by the Board of Directors following a recommendation and remuneration can be seen in Note 10 on pages 82–83. from the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration to other senior executives is decided by the President of the Parent PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS Company following consultation with the Remuneration ComA number of facilities within the Group require a permit or mittee. Remuneration comprises a basic salary and a defined need to be reported to a supervisory authority in order to be contribution pension based on the ITP premiums according to used. These facilities have been reported and applications for a collective agreement. Guidelines for remuneration to the Board permits (as required) were submitted to the supervisory auof Directors and senior executives for 2020 will be adapted to thorities concerned and have been granted. The facilities in the update of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance that question are as follows: One facility for combustion technology applies from 1 January 2020. research that requires a permit, and a number of facilities clasA fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors acsified as subject to declaration with respect to energy produccording to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. tion and sewer system. Board members who are employed in the Akademiska Hus Group, or who work at the Government Offices, do not receive SUSTAINABILITY REPORT any fee for this work. In accordance with Chapter 6, section 11 of the Swedish Annual Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2019 Accounts Act, Akademiska Hus has chosen to prepare the statAnnual General Meeting. utory Sustainability Report as a separate report. The scope of the Sustainability Report, which also includes Akademiska Hus’ PENSIONS sustainability report figures, is stated on page 111. Akademiska Hus has taken out an individual occupational pension solution for the President, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END where the agreed retirement age is 65 years. Akademiska Hus By the end of January the spread of Covid-19 accelerated globallocates 30 per cent of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson’s fixed ally. For this reason the Company’s crisis management unit has monthly salary, which is paid into an occupational pension inbeen engaged. Continous planning and evaluations are taking surance plan according to a special agreement drawn up with a place in order to manage responses. At present, the assessment pension company. The pension package includes a sickness and is that the financial implications of Covid-19 is limited due to early retirement pension, a retirement pension and optional the Company’s operations. survivor’s pension and/or repayment cover. Other senior executives have similar defined contribution agreements with a FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS maximum allocation of 30 per cent of their salary, or what is Akademiska Hus has a project portfolio with approved and termed a high-income earner solution with an opt-out premium planned investments of SEK 13.4 billion. The property portfolio that is cost­neutral compared with traditional, collectively is expected to increase in value by approximately SEK 7.5 bilagreed ITP. lion over the next three years. Net operating income will increase as new properties are completed and our streamlining Periods of notice and severance pay initiatives make progress, at the same time that we leverage our An agreement has been reached with the President, Kerstin economies of scale. A good cash flow limits our need for new fiLindberg Göransson, regarding a mutual period of notice of nancing to approximately SEK 2,5 billion for the upcoming six months. In the event of notice being given by the Company, three-year period. The forecast for the return on both equity severance pay is payable for a further eighteen months. The and operating capital does not include future changes in value severance pay shall be considered to include payment for holiand is thus expected to increase during the period, as our large days and pension benefits. The severance pay is reduced by any ongoing projects begin to generate returns. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 60 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT which were adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 29 April TO SECTION 18, SUB-SECTION 4 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2019, the dividend should amount to between 40 and 70 per The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company’s licent of the net profit after tax after reversal of changes in value quidity can be maintained securely. On observance of the relaand related deferred tax. When deciding on a dividend, considtionship between the Company’s assets, liabilities and equity, eration should be given to the Group’s capital structure and and with due consideration given to profit forecasts and investcapital requirements. The other economic objectives are that ment requirements as of this date, we believe that the proposed the return on operating capital should be at least 6.0 per cent dividend is justifiable in the light of the demands that the naover a business cycle and the Group’s equity ratio should be 35 ture, extent and risk of operations make on the level of equity. to 45 per cent. Return on operating capital in 2019 was 10.3 per The proposed dividend is thus acceptable in the light of the cent. At the end of 2019, the equity ratio was 45.7 per cent for Company’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and position the Group and 18.5 per cent for the Parent Company. After the in general. proposed dividend, the equity ratio will be 44.7 per cent for the The dividend does not affect the Company’s capacity to disGroup and 15.7 per cent for the Parent Company. charge its short-term and long-term obligations or to implement necessary investments. It is also the opinion of the Board Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: of Directors that the Company’s financial position, in the light Retained earnings  SEK 744,112,503 of the proposed dividend, is secure for the creditors. Nor can Profit for the year  SEK 1,977,916,813 the Board of Directors identify any other circumstances that Total SEK 2,722,029,316 indicate that the dividend ought not to be paid in accordance with the proposal presented by the Board of Directors. The proThe Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit posed value transfer can thus be justified in the light of what is be allocated in such a way that SEK 1,905,000,000 is paid to the stated in Section 17, sub-section 3, paragraphs 2–3 of the Comshareholder and SEK 817,029,316 is carried forward. For details of panies Act. the financial results and the financial position in general, reference can be made to the following financial statements. The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2020 in Stockholm. Outcome Changes in value Profit used for PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M consolidated results in the Group calculation of dividend Income from property management 6,217 6,217 Property management expenses -2,096 -2,096 NET OPERATING INCOME 4,121 4,121 Central administration costs -70 -70 Interest income 43 43 Interest expense -420 -420 Site leasehold fees -84 -84 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,589 3,589 Changes in value, properties 3,872 -3,864 8 Changes in value, financial instruments -503 165 -338 PROFIT BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 6,957 -3,699 3,259 Tax/current tax -1,300 762 -538 PROFIT AFTER TAX 5,658 -2,937 2,721 Dividend, 70% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,905 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April 2019 was SEK 1,663 million. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statements Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Rental revenue 4 6,050,479 5,927,669 6,050,479 5,927,669 Other property management income 5 166,368 189,034 262,112 190,458 Total property management income 6,216,847 6,116,703 6,321,591 6,118,127 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Operating costs -891,203 -893,634 -886,942 -890,451 Maintenance costs -618,912 -676,387 -618,912 -676,387 Property administration -429,968 -372,395 -409,802 -364,869 Site leasehold fees 6 — -84,382 -84,128 -84,382 Other property management expenses 6 -155,857 -151,754 -155,842 -165,575 Total property management expenses 7, 8 -2,095,939 -2,178,553 -2,155,626 -2,181,664 NET OPERATING INCOME 4,120,908 3,938,151 4,156,966 3,936,464 Central administration costs 7 -70,466 -78,069 -70,466 -78,069 Dividends from shares in subsidiaries — — 818,500 — Interest income 9 43,361 32,057 43,361 32,057 Interest expense 9 -420,357 -299,929 -505,611 -391,861 Site leasehold fees 9 -84,128 — — — Depreciation, impairment and reversed impairment in property management 8 — — -1,580,198 -1,315,493 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 10, 11, 30 3,589,317 3,592,206 2,862,551 2,183,097 Changes in value, properties 12 3,871,504 2,585,030 — — Changes in value, financial instruments 9 -503,467 -359,632 -503,467 -359,632 PROFIT BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 6,957,354 5,817,604 2,359,084 1,823,465 Appropriations 14 — — -36,706 -137,557 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 15 6,957,354 5,817,604 2,322,378 1,685,908 Tax 16 -1,299,502 -503,659 -344,461 -191,615 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 17 5,657,852 5,313,945 1,977,917 1,494,292 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,657,852 5,313,945 — — AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 5,657,852 5,313,945 1,977,917 1,494,292 ITEMS THAT HAVE BEEN RECLASSIFIED OR CAN BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Profit and loss from cash flow hedges — — — — Tax attributable to cash flow hedges — — — — Cash flow hedges, net after tax, dissolved against profit and loss 28 — -6,814 — -6,814 ITEMS THAT CANNOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Revaluation of defined benefit pensions 30 -84,178 -39,772 — — Tax attributable to defined benefit pensions 16 17,341 8,193 — — Total, other comprehensive income -66,837 -38,393 0 -6,814 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 5,591,015 5,275,552 1,977,917 1,487,478 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,591,015 5,275,552 — — AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the Group’s performance FULL-YEAR 2019 OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE COSTS Profit for the year before changes in value and tax was SEK Expenses for operation and maintenance decreased and 3,589 million (3,592). Change in the value of properties was amounted to SEK 1,510 million (1,570). The lower costs are due SEK 3,872 million (2,585), an increase of SEK 1,287 million to both lower operating costs and lower maintenance costs. compared with 2018. However, the effect of the change in value Operating costs involve supervision and service, as well as is reduced by increased costs related to financial items and bemedia provision. Operating costs of SEK 891 million (894) incause tax expense for the year is higher compared with the preclude media provision of SEK 576 million (595), equivalent to vious year, when the corporate tax rate was lowered. SEK 174/m² (177) over the past 12 months. Net operating income improved compared with the previous Maintenance costs declined compared with the same period year to SEK 4,121 million (3,938), which can mainly be exthe previous year and totalled SEK 619 million (676). The replained by the completion of new buildings in 2018 that had an duced costs mainly relate to project maintenance. In a compaimpact on 2019. In a comparable portfolio net operating inrable portfolio operating and maintenance costs decreased by come increased by 1.0 per cent. A changed accounting policy re2.6 per cent. lating to site leasehold fees had a positive impact on net operating income of SEK 84 million. The change does not affect profit ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES for the year. Property administration amounted to SEK 430 million (372). The increase is primarily attributable to the full-year effect of RENTAL REVENUE hiring related to strategic decisions and changes in the organiRental revenue increased compared with the previous year and sation. In general, costs related to development work related to totalled SEK 6,050 million (5,928). The majority of the increase innovation, new business concepts, and our IT deliverables inis related to the completion of new buildings in 2018 that had full creased compared with the previous year. Central administraimpact on 2019, especially Biomedicum and the National Police tion declined to SEK 70 million (78). Academy in Flemingsberg, as well as student housing at the Royal Institute of Technology. NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE In a comparable portfolio, rental revenue increased by 0.3 per Net interest income, which primarily consists of interest on cent compared with the previous year; excluding the change in loans and net interest income from the interest rate swap portvacant space, rental revenue increased by 2.2 per cent. folio, amounted to SEK 377 million (268) during the period, Other property management income amounted to SEK 166 corresponding to an interest rate of 1.21 per cent (0.97). The inmillion (189). The reduction can mainly be attributed to the crease is mainly attributable to the higher cost of loans with lower volume of services provided to tenants, which produces a floating interest rates due to the increase in STIBOR. Capitalcorresponding effect on other property management expenses. ised interest expense for projects in progress, which was not included in net interest income, totalled SEK 86 million (92) durLEASING LEVEL ing the year. See table describing the composition of net The financial vacancy rate at the end of 2019 was 2.2 per cent interest income and expense on page 65. (1.7) of our total rental revenue, which corresponds with SEK 141 million (139). The increased financial vacancy rate is attribCHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES utable to occupancy changes at Karolinska Institutet resulting The fair value of the Group’s property holdings was set using an from the completion of Biomedicum. Vacant space in terms of internal property valuation that is compared annually against area at year-end amounted to 125,000 square metres (144,000), external value statements where a selection of the holdings was which is 3.8 per cent (4.3) of our total rentable area of 3.3 milexternally valued. As of 31 December 2019 the change in value lion square metres (3.3). of properties with an impact on profit was SEK 3,872 million, STABLE RENTAL REVENUE RISING NET OPERATING INCOME AND INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO STABLE NET OPERATING INCOME RATIO CONTINUES AT HIGH LEVEL SEK m SEK m % % 6,000 4,000 80 1,000 800 4,500 3,000 60 600 3,000 2,000 40 400 1,500 1,000 20 200 0 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 Year 15 16 17 18 19 Year 15 16 17 18 19 Year AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS an increase of SEK 1,287 million compared with the same periof 31 December. The calculation shows that the long fixed inod in 2018. terest period has resulted in relatively stable financing costs. This increase in relation to the comparative period can When calculating the interest coverage ratio, the capitalised inmainly be attributed to the lower cost of capital and yield reterest expense and accrued earnings from the closed interest quirement for sub-markets with a substantial impact on the rate derivatives are included. The interest coverage ratio convalue in the company. The remaining portion can be explained tinues to be high at 665 per cent (736), see diagram on page 64. by other change in value, which is attributable to projects in TOTAL FINANCING COST progress, renegotiated leases and other factors affecting value. INCLUDING CHANGES IN VALUE 1 Jan. 2019– 1 Jan. 2018– The average yield requirement was 5.13 per cent (5.38). 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 The largest changes in value can be seen in the market areas Interest cost for loans, including charges, % 1.07 0.88 Mid-Sweden and South, primarily in the Greater Stockholm Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.14 0.09 Region, but also in the Gothenburg and Lund Region. These Net interest income and expense, % 1.21 0.97 changes are generally due to favourable rental developments in Changes in value, financial derivatives, % 1.39 1.33 the Stockholm region, as well as to the lower cost of capital and Total financing cost, % 2.60 2.30 yield requirements for all of the aforementioned sub-markets, which have a stronger impact on value. TOTAL FINANCING COST DISTRIBUTED, SEK M 1 Jan. 2019– 1 Jan. 2018– 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 CHANGES IN VALUE, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Net interest income/expense, Changes in value in the derivative portfolio amounted to SEK net loans and financial assets -343 -278 -503 million (-360), which can be attributed to the lower marNet interest derivatives -46 -27 ket interest rates and flatter yield curve during the year. The Other interest costs -74 -55 derivative portfolio largely consists of interest rate swaps that Capitalised interest expense, projects 86 92 are mainly entered into with the aim of extending the fixed inTotal net interest income/expense -377 -268 terest period in the liability portfolio, where 60 per cent of fiChange in value, independent financial derivatives nancing currently relies on floating interest rates. During the – unrealised -263 -160 year, the swap portfolio was restructured, where interest rate – realised -339 -39 swaps with a forward start were closed and new interest rate Changes in value, fair value hedges 98 -160 swaps were entered into. The closed swaps have had negative Total changes in value -503 -360 market values, which have been realised, especially during the fourth quarter. One third of Akademiska Hus’ interest risk exSite leasehold fees -84 — posure derives from interest rate swaps, which means that even minor changes in the interest rate situation affects earnings Reported net interest income and expense -965 -628 through changes in fair value. Falling market interest rates combined with a flatter yield curve have a negative impact on TAX profit, while the opposite is true for rising interest rates and steeper yield curve. Thus, in a fixed income market with large The corporate tax was lowered to 21.4 per cent in 2019 as a first fluctuations in interest rates, the changes in value will be sigstep and will be further lowered to 20.6 per cent in 2021. The nificant. current tax for the year of SEK 336 million was calculated at a rate of 21.4 per cent. Deferred taxes will be revalued based on the COMPARATIVE CALCULATION, TOTAL FINANCING COST tax rate applicable at the time when the deferred tax is expected In recent years, Akademiska Hus has had a relatively long fixed to be settled. This means that the deferred tax liability has been interest period in the total debt portfolio, which includes intercalculated at 20.6 per cent. The interest deduction in the corpoest rate derivatives. Changes in market interest rates generate rate sector has been limited beginning on 1 January 2019. The changes in the fair value of the interest rate derivatives. A pornew rules have had no effect on the taxes for the year. tion of interest rate derivatives is realised on an ongoing basis (monthly or quarterly), even if the maturity of the underlying COMPARISONS, DIFFERENT CALCULATIONS OF FINANCING COST instrument is long-term. % 6 To clarify the underlying financing cost, a comparative calculation is carried out in which the cash flows of realised inter5 est rate derivatives are also attributed (allocated) to the under4 lying maturity of each instrument. This allocation for the past 3 2,60 twelve-month period corresponds with an interest expense of 2 1,62 0.41 per cent. The diagram on the left shows this comparative 1 calculation of the underlying financing cost, in which interest 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year rates are expressed as rolling 12-month interest rate (annualised). The accrued finance charge amounted to 1.62 per cent as Period-allocated total financing cost Total financing cost including changes in value AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of financial position Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Capitalised expenditure 18 3,929 — 3,929 — Properties 12, 13, 15 91,423,889 85,865,127 45,318,125 44,373,630 Site leasehold rights 2,736,336 — — — Equipment, fixtures and fittings 18 21,467 23,219 21,467 23,219 Shares in Group companies 19 — — 650 650 Derivatives 20, 21, 22 4,303,565 1,614,260 4,303,565 1,614,260 Other non-current receivables 22, 23 504,052 430,333 504,052 430,333 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 98,993,238 87,932,939 50,151,789 46,442,092 CURRENT ASSETS Current receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable 24 538,450 651,707 538,450 651,707 Receivables from subsidiaries — — 818,650 — Current prepaid tax 48,937 35,340 48,937 35,340 Other current receivables 25 961,413 1,391,436 961,412 1,391,436 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 93,479 94,499 93,479 94,499 Derivatives 21 13,507 66,847 13,507 66,847 Total current receivables 20, 22 1,655,785 2,239,830 1,655,935 2,239,829 Cash and cash equivalents Current investments 2,179,944 1,841,605 2,179,944 1,841,605 Cash and cash equivalents 2,157,014 1,462,187 1,338,129 1,462,043 Total cash and cash equivalents 20, 27 4,336,958 3,303,792 3,518,073 3,303,648 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 5,992,743 5,543,623 5,992,508 5,543,477 TOTAL ASSETS 104,985,982 93,476,561 56,144,296 51,985,569 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder) Share capital 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 Other contributed equity 2,134,950 2,134,950 — — Statutory reserve — — 2,134,950 2,134,950 Hedge reserve 28 — — — — Actuarial profit and loss -99,362 -32,525 — — Fair value reserve 28 — — — — Retained earnings, including profit for the year 42,589,190 38,594,339 — — Retained earnings (in the Parent Company) — — 744,113 912,820 Profit for the year (in the Parent Company) — — 1,977,917 1,494,292 TOTAL EQUITY 46,759,778 42,831,764 6,991,979 6,677,063 Untaxed reserves 14 — — 4,380,469 4,343,763 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans 20, 21 30,016,478 28,261,967 30,016,478 28,261,967 Derivatives 20, 21 1,660,203 941,330 1,660,203 941,330 Deferred tax liability 16 12,575,646 11,629,682 2,205,706 2,197,442 Other non-current liabilities 29 111,259 46,328 111,259 46,328 Non-current liabilities, site leasehold rights 2,736,335 — — — Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 30 661,924 555,339 311,094 304,772 Total non-current liabilities 47,761,845 41,434,646 34,304,739 31,751,839 Current liabilities Accounts payable 300,755 415,958 300,755 415,958 Liabilities to Group companies — — 2,151 2,153 Income tax liabilities 16 — — — — Other current liabilities 29 2,767,099 1,245,069 2,767,699 1,245,669 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 31 2,330,372 2,154,309 2,330,372 2,154,309 Loans 20, 21 4,931,757 5,258,691 4,931,757 5,258,691 Derivatives 20, 21 134,374 136,124 134,374 136,124 Total current liabilities 10,464,358 9,210,151 10,467,109 9,212,904 TOTAL LIABILITIES 32 58,226,203 50,644,798 44,771,848 40,964,743 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 104,985,982 93,476,561 56,144,296 51,985,569 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the Group’s statement of financial position PROPERTIES fected by property-specific conditions such as net operating inAs of 31 December 2019 the fair value of Akademiska Hus’ propcome, rent levels, vacancy levels, lease term and property type, erty holdings totalled SEK 91,424 million, an increase of SEK as well as by market-related yield targets and cost of capital. 5,559 million and 6.5 per cent compared with 31 December 2018. The average yield requirement was 5.13 per cent, a decline of Fair value includes the completed portions of projects in pro0.25 percentage points since January 1. gress. The unrealised change in value and capitalised interest exAkademiska Hus engages an external rating agency to verify pense was SEK 3,865 million (2,585). Remaining changes relate the yield requirement and fixed costs on a quarterly basis to ento investments in properties for the year of SEK 3,266 million sure that market rates are applied in the internal valuation. (2,842) and sales of SEK -1,572 million (-6). In the first quarter Each year 25–30 per cent of the property portfolio is also of 2019 Akademiska Hus sold part of the property Ultuna 2:23, valued by external valuation professionals. External valuations called “Stallarna” (the stable), to the Swedish University of Agriare used as a benchmark for the internal valuation, thereby cultural Sciences. In the fourth quarter, part of the property Stuconfirming its reliability that we are within the interval stated dentkåren 4 was sold to Blekinge nation, while the properties below. Domherren 1 and Tre Vapen 7 were sold to Fastighets AB Balder. All property valuation includes assessments that are associThe sale of the latter properties was issued through the sale of ated with a certain degree of uncertainty. A normal uncertainty shares, thereby generating a profit of SEK 819 million in the subrange in conjunction with a property valuation is +/five to ten sidiary Akademiska Hus Holding AB. per cent, which would be equivalent to approximately SEK +/The fair value was calculated by means of an internal property 4,570 to SEK 9,140 million in the Akademiska Hus portfolio. valuation covering all the Company’s properties. The value is afPROPERTIES SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Change in cost of capital and (incl. new construction in progress and capitalised interest expense) yield targets in 2020 Outcome Increase by one Decrease by one Change in property holdings, SEK m 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 2019 percentage point percentage point Opening fair value 85,865 80,444 Changes in value, properties, SEK m 3,872 -12,964 17,463 + Investment in new construction, extensions and redevelopment 3,266 2,842 Return on equity, per cent 12.2 -11.9 37.2 + Acquisitions — — Return on operating capital, per cent 10.3 -7.2 30.4 Sales -1,572 -6 Equity ratio, per cent 45.7 41.0 50.5 +/Change in fair value 3,865 2,585 Loan-to-value ratio, per cent 36.0 41.9 30.2 Of which change in value due to a change in the cost of capital and yield requirement 2,727 1,385 Of which other change in value 1,138 1,200 Closing fair value 91,424 85,865 DEVELOPMENT OF YIELD REQUIREMENT PROPERTY PORTFOLIO’S ACCUMULATED VALUE GROWTH AND COST OF CAPITAL AND NUMBER OF SQUARE METRES FLOOR SPACE, M² SEK m Thousand m2 100,000 3,500 % 90,000 10 80,000 3,400 70,000 60,000 3,300 8 50,000 40,000 3,200 30,000 6 20,000 3,100 10,000 0 3,000 4 -10,000 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Year Average cost of capital Floor space, m² Construction A  cquisitions from Average yield requirement Other change in value Other acquisitions the Swedish state Sales AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCING Long-term bonds denominated in SEK at fixed interest, Credit spreads narrowed at the beginning of the year and rewhich comprise the long-term portfolio, amounted to about mained at a low level. Demand for Akademiska Hus’ bonds has SEK 5,600 million at year-end. The long-term portfolio conbeen strong. However, strong liquidity has meant a limited tributes to retaining a relatively long-term fixed interest period need for funding and activity in the bond market has therefore in the total portfolio of 6.8 years. Bonds denominated in foreign been somewhat lower during the year. Three issuances for a total currency are swapped for SEK with floating interest rates, for of about SEK 2,700 million were completed. A first green bond which reason these issuances do not entail a corresponding exfor SEK 1,500 million with a five-year term in the Swedish bond tension of maturity. Interest rate risk in the debt portfolio is inmarket accounted for the largest portion of issuances for the stead largely managed using interest rate derivatives. Normally, year. In addition, a 26-year issue of about SEK 700 million was financial markets price in long-term fixed interest periods and made possible with investors in Central Europe. Through the maturities at higher risk premiums. The objective of debt manrepurchase of bonds with a short remaining maturity, a five-year agement is therefore to balance the additional costs of long-term issue of SEK 500 million was also completed. During the year, fixed interest periods and maturities, and thus limit uncertainty, bond repurchases totalling SEK 2,300 million were carried out, against savings of more short-term fixed interest periods and some of which related to bond maturity as early as 2019. maturities, where greater uncertainty is accepted. As previously, The net liability portfolio at year-end totalled SEK 32,902 debt management will focus on allocating the portfolio’s interest million, corresponding to an increase of SEK 2,486 million durrate risk to the most effective periods on the yield curve. The ing the year, which is largely attributable to revaluation effects table below presents fixed interest and maturity terms in the in accordance to hedge accounting (for more information, see sub-­portfolios as of year-end. Notes 20, 21 and 28). The equity ratio at year-end was 45.7 per cent (45.8). The liability portfolio is allocated as follows: • Basic portfolio – ECP, commercial papers, loans, bonds FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY and interest rate derivatives. The long-term bond issuances of recent years have helped to • Long-term portfolio – bonds denominated in SEK with achieve a long period for tied-up capital, which at year-end was both fixed interest and maturity terms longer than 15 years. 10.7 years. Committed credit facilities in amounted to SEK • Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real 5,500 million. During 2019, two committed credit facilities of a interest rate. total of SEK 3,500 million were extended by one year, resulting in a maturity of two years, with an option for a one-year extension. The term for the remaining SEK 2,000 million in credit facilities is 12 months. All credit facilities were unutilised at year-end. In addition to credit facilities, surplus liquidity at year-end was SEK 4,337 million FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY NET DEBT Fixed interFixed interMaturity, Maturity, SEK m 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 est, years est, years years years Gross loan debt -34,948 -33,521 SEK m 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Assets Basic portfolio 3.6 4.1 8.5 8.5 Collateral for derivatives, net -2,568 -891 Long-term portfolio 20.9 21.8 20.9 21.8 Cash and cash equivalents 4,337 3,304 Index-linked bond portfolio 5.4 3.8 5.4 3.8 Current receivables 277 692 Total portfolio 6.8 7.3 10.7 10.8 Total net debt -32,902 -30,416 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in equity, Group Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Actuarial Profit for the contributed Hedge profit year brought Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note Share capital capital reserve and loss forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE 2018-01-01 2,135,000 2,134,950 6,814 -946 34,910,394 39,186,212 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — — 5,313,945 5,313,945 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit and loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -6,814 — — -6,814 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — -31,579 — -31,579 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -6,814 -31,579 5,313,945 5,275,552 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend1 — — — — -1,630,000 -1,630,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 0 -1,630,000 -1,630,000 CLOSING BALANCE 2018-12-31 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 -32,525 38,594,339 42,831,764 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — — 5,657,852 5,567,852 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — -66,837 — -66,837 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 0 -66,837 5,657,852 5,591,015 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend2 — — — — -1,663,000 -1,663,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 0 -1,663,000 -1,663,000 CLOSING BALANCE 2019-12-31 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 -99,362 42,589,190 46,759,778 1) Dividend of SEK 1,630,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018. 2) Dividend of SEK 1,663,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2019. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit for the Statutory Fair value year brought Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note Share capital reserve reserve forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE 2018-01-01 2,135,000 2,134,950 6,814 2,542,821 6,819,585 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — 1,494,292 1,494,292 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit and loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -6,814 — -6,814 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -6,814 1,494,292 1,487,478 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend1 — — — -1,630,000 -1,630,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 -1,630,000 -1,630,000 CLOSING BALANCE 2018-12-31 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 2,407,113 6,677,063 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year 1,977,917 1,977,917 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 0 1,977,917 1,977,917 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend2 — — — -1,663,000 -1,663,000 Total transactions with shareholder — — — -1,663,000 -1,663,000 CLOSING BALANCE 2019-12-31 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 2,722,029 6,991,979 1) Dividend of SEK 1,630,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018. 2) Dividend of SEK 1,663,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2019. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of Cash Flows Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 CURRENT OPERATIONS Profit after financial items 6,957,354 5,817,604 2,359,084 1,823,464 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow 33 -3,926,102 -2,312,605 672,762 1,675,219 Tax paid -349,794 -377,666 -349,794 -377,666 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 2,681,459 3,127,333 2,682,052 3,121,017 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in current receivables 507,523 -543,075 507,373 -543,076 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in current liabilities 330,177 414,155 330,175 420,474 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS 837,700 2,998,413 837,548 2,998,415 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investment in properties -3,180,449 -2,752,773 -3,180,449 -2,752,773 Sale of properties 1,579,023 6,000 759,841 6,000 Investment in other non-current assets -10,078 -23,316 -10,078 -23,316 Decrease in non-current receivables -73,719 -221,402 -73,719 -221,402 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES -1,685,223 -2,991,491 -2,504,406 -2,991,491 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Raising of interest-bearing loans, excluding refinancing 14,518,116 17,863,274 14,518,116 17,801,644 Repayment of loan -15,200,065 -19,875,925 -15,200,065 -19,814,295 Interest paid -387,162 -335,327 -387,162 -335,327 Realised derivatives and CSA 1,931,342 795,364 1,931,342 795,364 Dividend paid -1,663,000 -1,630,000 -1,663,000 -1,630,000 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES -800,770 -3,182,614 -800,770 -3,182,614 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 1,033,166 -3,175,692 214,425 -3,175,690 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,303,792 6,479,484 3,303,648 6,479,338 Closing cash and cash equivalents 27 4,336,958 3,303,792 3,518,073 3,303,648 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flow from current operations before changes in working STABLE CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS capital totalled SEK 2,681 million (3,127). The impact of investSEK m ments in properties on cash flow was SEK 3,180 million (2,753). 3,500 Cash flow from investing activities includes a sale of SEK 1,579 3,000 million relating to part of the property Ultuna 2:23, the proper2,500 2,000 ties Domherren 1, Tre Vapen 7 and part of the property Student­ 1,500 kåren 4. Sale of properties in 2018 amounted to SEK 6 million. 1,000 Cash flow relating to financing activities amounted to SEK 500 -801 million (-3,183). The improved cash flow is due to lower net 0 amortisation and an increased inflow of CSA collateral as a result 15 16 17 18 19 Year of higher receivables in relation to derivative counterparties. Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital Total cash flow for the year was SEK 1,033 million (-3,176). Investments CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENTS Total cash flow from current operations before change in working capital during the period 2015 to 2019 was SEK 14,556 million. Investments during the same period totalled SEK 13,758 million. The diagram shows that cash flow from current operations is reinvested largely in new construction as well as in redevelopment and extensions of existing holdings. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 73 Contents NOTE 1 General information 75 NOTE 2 General accounting policies 75 NOTE 3 Estimates and judgments 79 NOTE 4 Rental revenue 80 NOTE 5 Other property management income 80 NOTE 6 Other property management expenses/ Site leasehold fees 80 NOTE 7 Categorised operating costs 81 NOTE 8 Depreciation, impairment and reversed impairment in property management 81 NOTE 9 Financial income and expense 82 NOTE 10 Employees and personnel costs 82 NOTE 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors 84 NOTE 12 Properties (Group) 84 NOTE 13 Properties (Parent Company) 86 NOTE 14 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 87 NOTE 15 Segment reporting 87 NOTE 16 Tax 89 NOTE 17 Dividend 90 NOTE 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 90 NOTE 19 Shares in Group companies 91 NOTE 20 Loans and financial instruments 92 NOTE 21 Financial risk management (Group) 96 NOTE 22 Maturity structure, receivables 99 NOTE 23 Other non-current receivables 99 NOTE 24 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 99 NOTE 25 Other current receivables 99 NOTE 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 100 NOTE 27 Cash and cash equivalents 100 NOTE 28 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 100 NOTE 29 Other liabilities 100 NOTE 30 Provisions for pensions 101 NOTE 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 103 NOTE 32 Maturity structure, liabilities 103 NOTE 33 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 103 NOTE 34 Pledged assets 104 NOTE 35 Contingent liabilities 104 NOTE 36 Transactions with related parties 104 NOTE 37 Events after the year-end 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 1 General information CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company and companies over which the Parent Company has a controlling influence. A conAkademiska Hus AB (publ), registration number 556459-9156, is a limited trolling influence entails a right to formulate strategies for financial liability company registered in Sweden. The Company’s registered office activities with the aim of securing financial advantages. The existence is in Gothenburg. Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish state. and effect of potential voting rights that can currently be exercised or The Company is the Parent Company in the Akademiska Hus Group, converted are taken into account when assessing whether the Group can the principal task of which is to own and manage university and college exercise a controlling influence over another company. All subsidiaries properties. are wholly owned. The subsidiaries are included in the consolidated The Parent Company’s functional currency is SEK. All amounts are accounts with effect from the point at which the controlling influence is in SEK 1,000 unless stated otherwise. achieved and they are not included at the point at which the controlling Amounts denominated in other currencies than SEK has been restated influence ceases. using the year-end rate. The consolidated year-end accounts have been prepared according to the acquisition method, which means that the Parent Company’s carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated against equity, includ2 General accounting policies ing the capital share of untaxed reserves in the subsidiaries. SEGMENT REPORTING The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Operating segments are reported in a way that concurs with the internal EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as at report presented to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker. The 31 December 2019. The Group also applies Swedish Financial Reporting highest-ranking executive decision-maker is the function that is responBoard recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Rules for Consolidated sible for allocating resources and assessing the results of operating segFinancial Statements, which specifies the supplements to IFRS discloments. At Akademiska Hus, this function has been identified as the Presisures required pursuant to the rules in the Annual Accounts Act. dent of the Parent Company. In the Annual Report, items have been valued at cost except with The Group is organised and controlled based on a geographical diviregard to revaluation of properties, financial assets that can be sold and sion into markets/administration areas. The geographical areas (segfinancial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) valued at fair value ments) are exposed to similar risks and opportunities. in the Statement of Financial Position. The following is a description of Segments are consolidated according to the same accounting policies the more material accounting policies that have been applied. as for the Group as a whole. NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS REVENUE RECOGNITION AND INTERPRETATIONS 2019 In its capacity as property owner, the Group has signed operational lease IFRS 16 Leasing – Effect of the introduction of the standard agreements with customers and consequently the Group’s reported Akademiska Hus applies IFRS 16 Leases according to the simplified tranincome mainly comprises rental revenue. Where applicable, reported sition approach from 1 January 2019, which means that the standard will rental revenue has been reduced by the sum of the discounts granted to not be applied retroactively. The new standard will affect recognition of tenants. In those cases where lease agreements result in reduced rent the Group’s operating leases where the Group is the lessee. during a certain period, which is equivalent to a higher rent during The review identified site leasehold agreements as the most important another (later) period, this higher or lower rent is allocated to a specific leases. The implementation of the standard essentially means that leases period over the term of the lease. Rental revenue, lease revenue and relating to site leasehold rights will be recognised in the consolidated parking revenue are reported in advance and the allocation of rents to statement of financial position. However, the introduction of the standard specific periods therefore takes place so that only part of the rents that will have a limited impact on the financial statements, since the Group accrue to the period are reported as revenue. Revenue recognition noressentially operates as a lessor and leases where the Group is a lessee mally takes place linearly over the term of the lease agreement apart only occur to a limited extent in relation to the rest of the Group’s operafrom exceptional cases when another method better reflects how finantions. The transition to IFRS 16 has therefore not had any impact on the cial advantages accrue to the Group. Group’s equity. Since the simplified transition approach will be applied, Other property management income is reported, where applicable, in comparative figures for 2018 will not be restated. The Group has chosen the same way as rental revenue. This post largely comprises revenues as to apply the exemption not to recognise short-term leases and leases of a direct result of the leases and mainly consists of revenues from parking, low value assets as right-of-use assets and lease liability in the statement services for tenants and other management tasks. of financial position. Payments related to these leases will instead be recInterest income is reported as income divided across the term on ognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the lease term. For application of the annual equivalent rate method. lease obligations relating to site leasehold rights, the Group recognises Dividend income is reported when the right to receive payment has right-of-use assets at a value of about SEK 2,736 million and lease liabilibeen confirmed. ties of about SEK 2,736 million on 1 January 2019. There will be no net effect from deferred tax as the asset and liability are of equal value at the time of transition to IFRS 16. The right-of-use asset will be recognised at fair value as these represent part of the Group’s investment properties. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES Deferred tax is reported in accordance with the Statement of Financial Remuneration to employees in the form of salary, paid holiday, payment Position method. According to this method, deferred tax liabilities are while off sick etc., as well as pensions, are reported as they are earned. As reported in the Statement of Financial Position for all taxable temporary regards to pensions and other remuneration following termination of differences between the carrying amounts and taxable values of assets employment, these are classified as defined contribution pension plans and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are reported in the Statement of or defined benefit pension plans. Financial Position with regard to deficit deductions and all deductible temporary differences to the extent it is likely that the amounts can be Defined contribution plans offset against future taxable surpluses. The reported value of deferred tax In the case of defined contribution plans, the Company pays fixed contriassets is examined at each year-end and reduced to the extent it is no longer butions to a separate, independent legal entity and has no obligation to probable that a sufficient taxable surplus will be available for utilisation. make further contributions. The Group’s profit is charged with costs as The parliament has lowered the corporate tax for 2019 to 21.4 per the benefits are earned, which normally concurs with the point at which cent. The next reduction will occur in 2021 to 20.6 per cent. Deferred premiums are paid. taxes are revalued using the tax rate that is expected to apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled. Defined benefit plans Tax receivables and tax liabilities are offset and reported at a net For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension plan is based amount in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to on actuarial calculations according to what is termed the Projected Unit offset and when there is an intention to either receive or pay a net amount Credit Method. A calculation is made each year by an independent actuor receive payment of a receivable and pay the liability at the same time. ary. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and losses, effects of changes in the asset ceiling and the yield on plan assets (excluding the interest TRANSLATION OF ITEMS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY component, which is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Financial assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the Income) are reported directly in the Statement of Financial Position as year-end rate, whereupon realised and unrealised translation differences income or a cost equivalent to the change in the Statement of Total Comare expensed. Translation differences in operating receivables and liabilprehensive Income during the period in which they arise. Revaluations, ities are reported under Other property management income or Other which are reported under Other comprehensive income, affect the property management expense whilst translation differences attributable retained earnings and will not be reversed to profit and loss. Service costs to financial assets and liabilities are reported under Net interest income. from previous periods are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period in which the plan was changed. Net interest is calPROPERTIES culated on application of the discount rate at the beginning of the period Properties, i.e. properties that are held to generate rental revenue or on the net defined benefit liability or asset. gains from an increase in value, are measured continuously at fair value The discount rate is the interest rate at the year-end on high-quality (assessed market value). The fair value is based on the assessed market mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the Group’s pension value at the year-end, which means the value at which a property could obligations. When there is not a functioning market for such mortgage be transferred between knowledgeable parties who are independent bonds, the market for government bonds with similar maturity is used of each other and who have an interest in the transaction being impleinstead. mented. Changes in fair value are reported in the Statement of CompreThe defined benefit costs are divided into the following categories: hensive Income under the heading Changes in value, properties. • service costs (including service costs for the current period, service The term “properties” includes buildings and land, land systems, costs for previous periods and profits and losses in respect of reducbuilding and land equipment as well as properties under construction tions and/or adjustments) (new construction in progress). • net interest cost or net interest expense Property sales and property purchases are reported in conjunction • actuarial profit and loss with the risks and benefits linked to title being transferred to the purchaser or seller, which normally takes place on the completion date, The first two categories are reported in the Statement of Comprehenas long as this does not conflict with the terms and conditions in the consive Income as a personnel cost (service cost) or net interest income and tract of sale. For property sales through companies, the sale is reported expense (net interest expense). Profits and losses in respect of reducat the date of taking possession. tions and adjustments are reported as service costs from previous periA profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of properties comods. Revaluations are reported under Other comprehensive income. prises the difference between the sales price and the most recent valuaThe defined benefit pension obligations reported in the Statement tion (reported value based on the most recent revaluation at fair value). of Financial Position are equivalent to the current surplus or deficit The result in conjunction with sale or disposal is reported in the Consolirelated to the Group’s defined benefit obligations. A surplus is only dated Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading Changes reported to the extent that it is equivalent to the present value of future in the value of properties. In the Parent Company the result is reported repayments from each pension plan or future reductions in premium as other property management income/expense. payments into the plan. In those cases where Akademiska Hus uses part of a building for its own administration, the property is only classified as a property for TAX investment if an insignificant part is used for administrative purposes. The tax expense (income) for the period comprises current and If a property is reclassified as a property held for resale or an invendeferred tax. Taxes are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive tory item, the property is reported at the assumed acquisition value, Income with the exception of the underlying transaction, which is equivalent to the fair value of the property at the time of reclassification. reported under Other comprehensive income or directly against equity, whereupon the associated tax effect is reported under Other comprehenFAIR VALUE, PROPERTIES sive income or against equity. Akademiska Hus has an internal property valuation process that is highly Current tax is the tax calculated by on the taxable profit for a period. developed and has been quality assured. Information regarding valuation The taxable profit for the year differs from the reported profit for the principles as well as levels of input data, assumptions and prerequisites year in the fact that an adjustment has been made for non-taxable and are produced by the Company’s valuation specialists and ultimately non-deductible items. The Group’s current tax liability is computed adopted by the President. according to the tax rates stipulated or notified as of the year-end. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Akademiska Hus valuation models comply with good market practice A financial asset is removed from the Statement of Financial Position in the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that are when the rights in the agreement are realised, matures or the Company used are justified based on both property-specific conditions and indusloses control over them. The same applies to part of the financial asset. A try-specific conditions. The properties have been valued individually financial liability is removed from the Statement of Financial Position without any account being taken of portfolio effects. For a more detailed when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or is extinguished in description of Akademiska Hus’ valuation methods, see Note 12. some other way. The same applies to a portion of a financial liability. The Group categorises its financial instruments as: EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS Equipment, fixtures and fittings mainly comprise IT equipment and office Assets: equipment. These are reported at the acquisition value reduced by Derivatives measured at fair value through profit and loss depreciation according to plan and possible impairment. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes and recognised at fair value Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition through profit or loss. Some of these derivatives are included in the hedgvalue reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear ing package, while others are “independent derivatives”. basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the Measured at fair value through profit and loss following percentages of the acquisition value: Assets in this category are initially recognised at cost, i.e. fair value at the Computer equipment 33% time of acquisition, and are subsequently measured continuously at fair Equipment, fixtures and fittings 20% value. The change in value is reported continuously through profit and Capitalised expenditure 20% loss. All Akademiska Hus investment assets fall into this category. The assets are classified as “hold to collect” and Akademiska Hus uses the fair Depreciation according to plan of equipment, fixtures and fittings is value option for these investments. All change in value in these items are reported as an operating cost or under property administration. recognised through profit and loss under changes in value. The profit or loss that arises on scrapping or disposal of equipment, fixtures and fittings is reported as Other property management income Measured at amortised cost or Other property management expense. Assets in this category are non-derivative financial assets with established or establishable payment flows that are not listed on an active IMPAIRMENT market. These assets are recognised and measured on a continuous basis Impairment takes place in those cases where the reported value of the at the accrued acquisition value. Akademiska Hus’ accounts receivable asset exceeds the recovery value. Reported values for the Company’s fall into this category and are reported at cost. assets are checked at each period-end to determine if there is any indication of an impairment requirement. If there is such an indication, Liabilities: the recoverable value of the asset is calculated. The recoverable value Derivatives measured at fair value through profit and loss is the higher of the value in use and the net realisable value. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes and recognised at fair value When computing the value in use, future cash flows are discounted at through profit and loss. Some of these derivatives are included in the a rate of interest before tax that it is envisaged will take into account the hedging package, while others are “independent derivatives”. market’s assessment of risk-free interest and risk linked to the specific asset. For an asset which does not, independent of other assets, generate Measured at fair value through profit or loss any cash flow, the recoverable value of the cash-generating unit to which These liabilities are initially recognised at cost and thereafter continuthe asset belongs is calculated. ously at fair value. The change in value is reported on a continuous basis Reversal of previous impairments takes place when the recoverable through profit and loss. Bonds that are included in the hedging package value for a previously impaired asset exceeds the carrying amount belong to this category. and the need for impairment made previously is no longer considered necessary. The reversal is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Measured at amortised cost Income. An examination of past impairments takes place on an individFinancial liabilities measured at amortised cost are initially recognised ual basis. in the balance sheet at fair value, including the transaction cost. After initial recognition instruments in this category are measured at amorFINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS tised cost. Bonds that are not included in the hedging package and curThe general principles for the valuation of financial instruments are that rent liabilities belong to this category. financial investment assets and all derivatives should be valued at fair value whilst other financial assets and financial liabilities are measured Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost. Financial instruments are reported initially at the Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount in acquisition value, corresponding to the fair value of the instrument with the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offset an addition for transaction costs for all financial instruments apart from and when there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or at the those that belong to the category Financial Assets, which are measured same time realise the asset and settle the debt. Information relating to at fair value through profit and loss. Reporting subsequently takes place offset financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 7 can be seen in Note 21. depending on how they are classified, as stated below. A financial asset or financial liability is recorded in the Statement of Calculation of fair value, financial instruments Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual When establishing the fair value of current investments, derivatives and terms and conditions of the instrument or when applicable according to loan debts, the official market listing at the period-end is used and calcu“regular way purchase” principles. Accounts receivable are recorded in lation takes place according to generally accepted methods. In those the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has been sent. A liacases where such listings are not available, a valuation is made through bility is recorded when the counter-party has performed and there is a discounting of future cash flows at the listed market interest rate for contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. each term. Translation into Swedish kronor takes place at the current Accounts payable are recorded when an invoice has been received. rate at the period-end. Calculated and estimated fair values are indicaAKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes tive and will not necessarily be realised. The nominal value of accounts exposure by hedging interest and currency exposure against fluctuations receivable and accounts payable, reduced by possible estimated credits, in interest rates and exchange rates. Derivatives are valued at fair value is assumed to be equivalent to their fair value. Information according to and changes in value are reported on an ongoing basis against net finanIFRS 13 about the level in the fair value hierarchy for different items can cial income and expense. be found in Note 20. Interest derivatives (future contracts, interest swap agreements, FRA contracts and interest options) are held mainly to secure the desired Rent receivables, accounts receivable and other receivables fixed interest period in existing debt financing. Interest derivatives are Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported initially at the fair measured continuously at fair value and the effects attributable to the value and are then reported at the invoiced amount following a deducchanges in value are recognised in net interest income and expense. The tion for any impairment (bad debts), which is equivalent to the accrued net of the accrued interest income and interest expense is allocated to acquisition value. The estimated term of rent receivables and accounts specific periods and expensed over the term of the derivative. In conreceivable is short and consequently the value is reported at the nominal junction with financing in a foreign currency, all future payment flows amount without discounting. Doubtful receivables are assessed individare hedged so that no currency risk remains. Currency risk hedging takes ually and any impairment is reported within operating costs. place with the aid of currency derivatives (currency future contracts, Assets measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comcurrency swap agreements or combined with an interest swap agreeprehensive income must be tested for impairment. Most of Akademiska ment). Currency derivatives are translated at the period-end exchange Hus’ assets are not subject to this requirement since they are recognised rate and when hedge accounting is applied, the effects of the currency at fair value through profit and loss. However, accounts receivable are translation of the derivative naturally meet the effects of the currency recognised at amortised cost, but since Akademiska Hus’ customers are translation of the debt in net interest income and expense. Independent mainly government authorities, these receivables are not tested for derivatives, i.e. derivatives that are not included in any hedge relationimpairment, since the amount is not considered to have a material ship, are valued at fair value and the change in value is recorded directly impact on profit. in net interest income and expense. With the aim of leveling out price variations on the electricity market, and in doing so achieve an even Cash and cash equivalents trend for the Group’s electricity costs, future electricity use is hedged Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and current with the aid of electricity derivatives. Electricity derivatives are measinvestments with maturity in less than three months. These are classified ured continuously at fair value and the changes in value are recognised as cash and cash equivalents because they consist of extremely liquid continuously in profit and loss. The effects of price hedging, the differcommercial papers that can be immediately traded at a value equal to the ence between the electricity future’s hedged price and the average spot carrying amount. The current investments are measured at fair value price during the term of the electricity future, are offset against profit through profit and loss. Cash and cash equivalents are held at amortised cost. and are transferred on maturity from net interest income and expense and reported as an operating cost. Consequently, the result of the elecCurrent investments tricity future and the Group’s physical electricity purchases constitute Current investments with a term in excess of three months comprise the actual electricity cost. interest-bearing securities and are reported and valued at fair value. Changes in value (unrealised profits and losses) are reported on a continHedge accounting uous basis through net interest income and expense. In the Statement of Akademiska Hus’ hedge accounting is based on “Fair value hedging”. Cash Flows, current investments with a term in excess of three months This means that both the hedged item/exposure and the hedging instruare not classified as cash and cash equivalents. ment are measured at fair value. Akademiska Hus uses cross currency interest rate derivatives agreements to hedge bonds issued in foreign Loan financing currencies. This is done in accordance with the financing and risk poliAll loan financing is initially reported at fair value, net after transaction cies. Changes in value are continuously recognised through profit and costs. Borrowing is subsequently reported at amortised cost and any difloss, which also means that accounting ineffectiveness also ends up in ference between the amount received and the repayment amount is profit and loss. reported in net interest income and expense divided over the loan period The requirements that must be met to qualify for hedge accounting on application of the annual equivalent rate method. Borrowing that under IFRS 9 are an economic relationship, credit risk and hedge ratio. constitutes a hedged item in conjunction with fair value hedging is recog“Economic relationship” means that there must be an economic relanised and measured after the acquisition point continuously at fair value tionship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Akademwith account taken of the hedged risk. Changes in value are reported in iska Hus ensures that there is an economic relationship because the critnet interest income and expense. Loan financing in foreign currency is ical terms match for the hedged item and the hedging instrument. This is translated and the effects are reported through profit and loss. done in connection with debt issuance. The second requirement is that The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the the effect of credit risk must not dominate the change in market value. Group capitalises interest expense attributable to properties under conRegarding credit risk, Akademiska Hus can conclude that change in struction that take a significant period of time to complete. Capitalised credit risk does not have any significant effect on the market value of the interest expense has a positive effect on net interest income and expense hedging package. Akademiska Hus has an extremely stable rating and and a negative effect on the change in fair value of properties to the any credit risk is managed through “CSA agreements”. According to the equivalent amount. Financing costs for properties under construction third criterion, the Company must determine the hedge ratio of its hedgthat do not take a significant period of time to complete are charged in ing package. Akademiska Hus’ hedge ratio is 1:1 since the hedging instrufull to the financial result for each year. ments are a direct reflection of the underlying hedge item. Accounts payable and other liabilities PROVISIONS Accounts payable and other liabilities have a short expected term and are Provisions are reported in the Statement of Financial Position when the valued at the nominal value without discounting. Company has a formal or informal undertaking because of an event that has occurred and where it is probable that an outflow of resources is Financial derivatives required to settle the undertaking and a reliable estimate of the amount Derivatives are held primarily with the aim of securing long-term, can be made. cost-effective debt financing and handling the Group’s financial risk AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes PARENT COMPANY, ACCOUNTING POLICIES Deferred tax The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts according to The amounts that are allocated to untaxed reserves comprise taxable the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Accounting Standards Board temporary differences. Because of the link between accounting and taxarecommendation RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Entities and applicable tion, the deferred tax liability that is attributable to the untaxed reserves is statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. not reported separately in a legal entity. These are thus reported at the gross RFR 2 means that in the annual accounts for the legal entity, the Paramount in the Statement of Financial Position. The appropriations are ent Company shall apply all EU-endorsed IFRSs and statements as far as reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with consideration given to the link between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the exceptions and addenda that are to be made to IFRS. The differences 3 Estimates and judgments between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies are stated below. When preparing reports in compliance with IFRS, the Executive Management and the Board of Directors must make assessments and Amended accounting policies assumptions that affect the reported asset and liability items and income No amendments to RFR 2 with a material impact on the Parent Compaand cost items in the final accounts as well as information provided genny’s financial statements were made during 2019. erally, including contingent liabilities. These assessments are based on historical experience and different assumptions the Executive ManageProperties ment and the Board of Directors have considered reasonable under the Properties are reported in a legal entity at the acquisition value with prevailing circumstances. The conclusions drawn form the basis for decia deduction for accumulated depreciation, impairments and reversed sions regarding reported values of assets and liabilities in those cases impairments. where these cannot be established easily through information from During the year 0 (0) properties were revised upwards. Depreciation other sources. The actual outcome could differ from these assessments if on the upwards revaluation occurs linearly with such an amount that the other assumptions are made or if other conditions emerge. Assessments revaluation is completely written off when the properties are otherwise could have a material impact on the Akademiska Hus profit and financial fully depreciated. position, particularly within regard to valuation of properties (see also Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition Note 12). value reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear When calculating the Group’s pension liability in accordance with basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. IAS 19, a number of assumptions are made, including the discount rate in Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the current value assessment, expected salary increases, inflation, staff turnfollowing percentages of the acquisition value: over, remaining period of service for those covered by the pension plan Land systems 5% as well as expected mortality assumptions. The levels of these parameBuildings 1.7% ters are adapted to company-specific conditions and partly to normal Building equipment 10% external conditions (see also Note 30). Land equipment 20% Sensitivity analysis, impact on profit Shares in subsidiaries The sensitivity analysis shows how the profit before tax, return on operShares in subsidiaries are reported at the acquisition value. ating capital and fair value of the properties would be affected in the event of changes in different variables. The analysis shows the impact on Remuneration to employees an annual basis at full effect. The Parent Company’s pension undertakings have been calculated Changes in the cost of capital or yield target are factors that affect the and reported based on the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act. fair value most. The impact on profit of a change in value, however, Application of the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act is a prewould not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. In the sensitivity analyrequisite for the right to make a tax deduction. sis, the current lease portfolio has been taken into account with regard to rental revenue and vacant space. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT Impact on Impact on return on Impact on pre-tax profit, operating capital, fair value, Impact on fair value, Change SEK m percentage points SEK m1 percentage points Rental revenue, +/one percentage point 61 0.6 458 0.5 Vacant space, +/one percentage point 59 -0.9 -748 -0.8 Operating costs, +/one percentage point 9 -0.1 -90 -0.1 of which media provision 6 0.0 -45 0.0 Cost of capital, + one percentage point -5,397 -6.9 -5,397 -5.9 Cost of capital, one percentage point 5,949 7.2 5,949 6.5 Yield target, + one percentage point -7,567 -9.8 -7,567 -8.3 Yield target, one percentage point 11,514 13.6 11,514 12.6 1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. The amounts for change in the cost of capital and yield only relate to properties that were measured through cash flow, which is SEK 79,174 million (87%) AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 4 Rental revenue All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and generThe two largest tenants are Karolinska Institutet and Lund University, ate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted to which account for 12.2 per cent and 10.1 per cent of rental revenue, KSEK 6,050,479 (5,927,669) and the direct costs for the properties durrespectively. ing the period totalled KSEK 2,095,939 (2,178,553). LEASE TERMS AS AT 31 DEC. 2019 CONTRACTED RENTAL REVENUE AS AT 31 DEC. 2019 ACCORDING TO THE SIZE OF THE LEASE Number Contracted Number Contracted Due date of leases annual rent Proportion, % Annual rent of leases annual rent Proportion, % Non-residential premises Non-residential premises 2020 291 278,424 5 > 70,000 4 523,452 9 2021 324 783,461 14 30,000–70,000 32 1,360,092 23 2022 194 584,457 10 10,000–30,000 132 2,223,386 39 2023 196 1,015,153 18 7,500–10,000 44 388,951 7 2024 66 446,400 8 5,000–7,500 64 398,119 7 2025 47 545,368 9 2,500–5,000 105 396,171 7 2026 and later 164 2,039,734 35 < 2,500 901 402,826 7 Other 350 59,802 1 Other 350 59,802 1 Total 1,632 5,752,799 100 Total 1,632 5,752,799 100 5 Other property management income Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Parking revenue 72,103 68,407 72,104 68,408 Profit on the sale of other non-current assets — — 94,555 1,424 Income from external property management assignments and similar assignments 36,510 31,843 36,510 31,843 Income from services performed on behalf of tenants 55,488 83,371 55,488 83,370 Other 2,267 5,413 3,455 5,413 TOTAL 166,368 189,034 262,112 190,458 6 Other property management expenses/Site leasehold fees Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Property tax and other risk costs -16,359 -9,037 -16,359 -9,037 Site leasehold fees — -84,382 -84,128 -84,382 Studies -29,854 -21,153 -29,854 -21,153 Loss on the sale and disposal of other non­current assets — — -960 -13,821 Costs for external property management assignments and similar assignments -23,426 -16,122 -23,426 -16,122 Costs for services performed on behalf of tenants -44,908 -77,534 -44,908 -77,534 Other -41,310 -27,908 -40,335 -27,908 TOTAL -155,857 -236,136 -239,970 -249,957 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 7 Categorised operating costs Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Functions reported in the Income Statements Property management -2,095,939 -2,178,553 -2,155,626 -2,181,664 Central administration costs -70,466 -78,069 -70,466 -78,069 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ACCORDING TO FUNCTION -2,166,405 -2,256,622 -2,226,092 -2,259,733 CATEGORISED FUNCTION COSTS Energy, fuel and water -580,060 -599,777 -580,060 -599,777 Property administration -94,535 -76,667 -94,535 -72,325 Maintenance costs, material and services purchased -702,038 -776,509 -693,697 -790,330 Site leasehold fees — -84,382 -84,128 -84,382 Property tax -10,672 -3,775 -10,672 -3,775 Personnel costs -493,192 -453,886 -477,107 -453,886 Depreciation — -6,368 — — Other costs -285,908 -255,258 -285,893 -255,258 TOTAL CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS -2,166,405 -2,256,622 -2,226,092 -2,259,733 8 Depreciation, impairment and reversed impairment in property management Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Properties — — -1,571,857 -1,309,125 Equipment, fixtures and fittings — — -8,341 -6,368 TOTAL 0 0 -1,580,198 -1,315,493 Depreciation for the Group is recognised under property administration and operating costs. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 9 Financial income and expense Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total interest income 43,361 32,057 43,361 32,057 Total interest expense -420,357 -299,929 -505,611 -391,861 TOTAL NET INTEREST INCOME/EXPENSE -376,996 -267,872 -462,250 -359,804 UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives -262,627 -159,991 -262,627 -159,991 Fair value hedges 98,091 -160,492 98,091 -160,492 TOTAL UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE -164,536 -320,483 -164,536 -320,483 REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives -338,931 -39,149 -338,931 -39,149 TOTAL REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE -338,931 -39,149 -338,931 -39,149 Site leasehold fees -84,128 — — — NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE -964,591 -627,504 -965,717 -719,436 10 Employees and personnel costs GENDER DIVISION, BOARD, GROUP MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERSONS IN EXECUTIVE POSITIONS The average number of employees was as follows: The Board comprises 7 (7) members elected at the Annual General Meeting and 2 (2) members appointed by the employees. 3 (3) of the members are women, i.e. 33 per cent (33). Overall management of the 2019 2018 Group rests with the Executive Management, which comprises 5 (5) AKADEMISKA HUS AB men and 6 (5) women. The Executive Management team comprises the Women 160 151 President, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Project Manager, Men 330 329 three Market Area Directors, Administrative Manager, Corporate Communications Officer, Head of Innovation and Sustainable Development, GROUP, TOTAL 490 480 the Human Resources Director and the General Counsel. The Group’s and Parent Company’s outstanding pension obligations The proportion of women (based on the average number of employees) to the President, Regional Directors and other members of Executive in the Parent Company and the Group is 33 per cent (31). Management total KSEK 8,463 (7,239). The subsidiaries do not have any employees and no salaries have been paid. SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 SALARIES AND REMUNERATION Board members, President and Vice President 8,069 7,904 8,069 7,904 Other employees 294,637 278,990 294,637 278,990 TOTAL 302,706 286,894 302,706 286,894 SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Board members, President and Vice President 4,747 4,662 4,747 4,662 (of which pension costs) (2,212) (2,179) (2,212) (2,179) Other employees 141,477 147,886 141,477 147,886 (of which pension costs) (48,698) (59,622) (48,698) (59,622) TOTAL 146,224 152,548 146,224 152,548 (of which pension costs) (50,910) (61,801) (50,910) (61,801) AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD 2019 2018 Audit and Audit and Directors’ Investment Remuneration Finance Directors’ Investment Remuneration Finance fees Committee Committee Committee fees Committee Committee Committee Chair person Anitra Steen 327 30 10 — 313 30 10 — Member Britta Burreau 158 — — 30 153 — — 30 Member Peter Gudmundson 158 — — 30 153 — — 30 Employee representative Thomas Jennlinger — — — — — — — — Employee representative Anders Larsson — — — — — — — — Member Christer Nerlich 158 — — 40 153 — — 40 Member Örjan Wikforss 158 20 — — 153 20 — — Member Ingemar Ziegler 158 20 10 — 153 20 5 — Member Anna Magnusson1 — — — — — — — — Member Caroline Arehult2 — — — — 75 10 — — Member Kristina Ekengren2 — — — — — — — — Member Gunnar Svedberg2 — — — — 75 5 — — TOTAL 1,117 70 20 100 1,225 85 15 100 1) Elected as board member 27 April at the 2018 Annual General Meeting 2) Left the Board of Directors as a board member at the Annual General Meeting 27 April 2018 REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2019 2018 Basic Pension Basic Pension salary1 cost salary1 cost CEO/President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 4,192 1,178 4,082 692 CFO/Vice President Catarina Fritz 2,296 602 2,252 541 Administrative Manager Jonas Bjuggren 1,987 487 1,979 464 Project Manager Hayar Gohary 1,649 397 1,573 345 Market Area Director Peter Bohman 1,623 391 1,591 349 Market Area Director Magnus Huss 1,595 381 1,504 325 Head of Innovation and sustainable development Ulf Däversjö 1,592 390 1,592 301 Human Resources Director Marie Hallander Larsson 1,544 364 1,491 321 CIO Cecilia Wide 1,273 289 1,215 153 General Counsel Carolin Åberg Sjöqvist2 775 288 — — Market Area Director Åsa Henninge3 571 88 — — Market Area Director Birgitta van Dalen4 1,050 472 1,574 747 TOTAL 20,147 5,327 18,853 4,238 1) No payments were made in addition to the above reported basic salary. 2) Joined Executive Management in July 2019. 3) Joined Executive Management in August 2019. 4) Left Executive Management in August 2019. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors out of pocket expenses Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 KPMG AB Audit assignment — — — — Audit work in addition to the audit assignment — 90 — 90 Tax consulting 178 145 178 145 Other services — — — — TOTAL 178 235 178 235 ÖHRLINGS PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AB Audit assignment 1,150 984 1,150 984 Audit work in addition to the audit assignment — 150 — 150 Tax consulting 743 184 743 184 Other services 454 1,082 454 1,082 TOTAL 2,347 2,400 2,347 2,400 TOTAL 2,526 2,635 2,526 2,635 Audit assignment refers to payment to the auditor for the statutory tus for an EMTN programme) as well as the provision of advice or other audit, such as work necessary to submit the audit report. Audit work in assistance as a result of observations made in conjunction with such an addition to the audit assignment in effect refers to what can be desigexamination or the performance of other such duties. nated quality assurance services (for example, examination of a prospec12 Properties (Group) 2019 2018 Changes in value, property holdings The fair value of properties has changed during the year as follows: Positive 5,001,479 3,945,051 Group Negative -1,136,700 -1,360,021 Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Result from sales and disposal 6,725 — Opening fair value 85,865,127 80,444,369 TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES 3,871,504 2,585,030 + Investment in new construction, extensions and redevelopment 3,180,449 2,749,796 + Acquisitions — — VALUATION MODELS/METHODS + Capitalised interest expense 85,833 91,932 The fair value of the Group’s properties as at 31 December 2019 has been set using an internal property valuation. The valuation has been conSales -1,572,299 -6,000 ducted using different valuation methods as follows: SEK 79,174 million +/Change in value, unrealised 3,864,779 2,585,030 (87 per cent) of the fair value has been set through an internal cash flow Of which change in value due to valuation, where the cash flow figures used comprise the net operating adjusted value index — -230,289 income for each property. Rental revenue was calculated based on curOf which change in value due to rent leases and an assessment of market rent level is made after the term a change in the cost of capital and of the lease has expired. Operating costs are estimated based on the noryield requirement 2,727,264 1,384,985 malised historical outcome of each property, while maintenance costs Of which change in value due to and property administrative costs are assessed based on actual costs and adjusted value index (valuation status, key indicators for the industry. average remaining term, property type) 361,667 -237,197 For an initial calculation period of ten years, a current value is comOf which capitalised interest expense -85,833 -91,932 puted for the cash flow generated each year using a nominal cost of capiOf which other change in value 861,681 1,759,463 tal. The residual value from year 11 is calculated based on the market’s CLOSING FAIR VALUE 91,423,889 85,865,127 actual yield targets. Residual value is in turn calculated at the current value using nominal cost of capital. The property’s fair value comprises the sum of the current cash flows during the calculation period and the current residual value. The starting point when choosing the cost of capital is the nominal interest rate on the secondary market for government bonds with a term equivalent to the length of the calculation period. A risk premium is AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes added to cover the market risk and the property-related risk. The yield buildings. This means that many of our properties are not available for targets are assessed, as far as possible, using the property transactions new tenants or other purposes without substantial redevelopment. After that have been completed on the market and, as far as possible, using an initial calculation period, assessment of the residual value needs to comparable properties. Each year, Akademiska Hus has the yield target, reflect the more property specific risks in more concrete terms. An cost of capital and other valuation prerequisites verified by two external assessment of the uncertainty regarding modernity, standard/condition, valuation institutes. technical risk and redevelopment/adaptation requirements is made at Both the cost of capital for discounting the cash flow as well as the the point at which residual value is calculated. These risks are quantified yield target have been differentiated for each property depending on the mainly in the form of charges to cash flow and in the direct yield target. town, location, lease term and type of premises. The risks are thus anaThe cost of capital for the cash flow varies for different properties lysed in several dimensions and are generally assessed to be higher for within the range 5.93–11.74 per cent depending on the lease term, town/ properties with shorter leases, installation-intensive premises and propcity, location, and type of premises. The long-term yield target varies erties in less attractive locations. between 3.85 per cent and 9.55 per cent depending on the town/city, Expansion reserves, SEK 1,161 million (1 per cent), were measured location and type of premises. according to the sales comparison approach based on external valuaThe average yield target and cost of capital for each segment are tions. In some cases, the planning conditions for new construction are shown in the table below. unclear and consequently the pure land values have been used to establish the fair value. The expansion reserves include construction rights 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 covering a gross area of approximately 1.60 million square metres (GFS). SEK 11,089 million (12 per cent) of the assessed market value was set Yield target, Cost of Yield target, Cost of based on other valuation methods. This primarily relates to properties % capital, % % capital, % with a special risk assessment where a more individually adapted cash South 5.4 7.5 5.7 7.8 flow method has been used to be able to adapt the length of the estimate Mid-Sweden 4.8 6.9 5.0 7.1 and yield requirement based on needs. This group also includes objects valued by external valuers or at indicative selling price. North 5.6 7.7 5.8 8.0 The total fair value of properties includes new construction in proGroup 5.1 7.2 5.4 7.5 gress amounting to SEK 4,610 million (4,404), which has also been valued using the internal cash flow valuation with a deduction for remainOther assumptions ing investment. The following assumptions form the basis for the internal market valuation: Valuation conditions 2019 Yield requirements and cost of capital declined by between 0.05 and 0.75 Valuation assumptions percentage points during the year, due to general price-driving factors in the property market for community properties. Overall, the positive 10 years, > 6 years < = 10 years, < = 6 Lease term years change in value attributable to changes in yield requirements and cost of capital in 2019 amounted to SEK 2,727 million (1,385). Well-located, effiDivision into town, city, location 26 towns, cities, locations cient properties with a strong customer base and good rental potential Special adaptation/ Installation-intensive premises/ are in greatest demand and are naturally less sensitive to external type of premises non-installation-intensive premises changes and are therefore assigned a lower yield requirement. Calculation period 10 years Characteristic of Akademiska Hus are long leases with stable, creditInflation assumption, year 1 2.0% worthy customers. The majority of tenants have a public principal and thus a very good credit rating, which means a low rent risk during the Inflation assumption, years 2–10 2.0% term of the lease. Around 85 per cent of income derives from the domiVacant space Actual and/or 3% nant customer group, universities and colleges. All centres of education, Property administration SEK 45/m² apart from Chalmers University of Technology, have the Swedish state as Maintenance costs, principal and thus have a high credit rating. The average remaining lease non-installation-intensive premises SEK 100/m² term is 6.5 years (6.5). The valuation divided the leases into three categoMaintenance costs, ries based on average remaining lease term. For valuation properties installation-intensive premises SEK 140/m² with a longer remaining lease term, the relative risk is lower as the cash flow valuation is based predominantly on hedged revenue flows. The city, town and location classifications have been based in part on Assumptions about inflation have been made based on the views of difthe general division of the property market. Larger and important cities ferent forecasters, such as the National Institute of Economic Research, and towns have been assigned a higher degree of attractiveness from, for the Swedish central bank and other banks. The long-term inflation example, a demographic, employment and economic point of view. From assumption of 2 per cent corresponds with the Swedish central bank’s the point of view of higher education and research, in addition to Swelong-term inflation target. The rent trend during the term of the lease is den’s three largest cities – Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö – the clasestimated at maximum of inflation (CPI), with consideration taken to sic university towns of Lund and Uppsala, and to a certain extent the index share of the lease. Actual vacancy is applied as it occurs and Linköping and Umeå, are considered to be more attractive and more staafter the contract period a standard vacancy rate of 3 per cent is applied. ble over the long term. The division into different cities, towns and locaStandard formulas are applied for property administration costs and tions reflects the demand on the market and the attractiveness of the maintenance costs. properties. Inner-city locations in Stockholm and Gothenburg are in greatest demand and most attractive while smaller, rural locations are Sensitivity analysis less in demand. The sensitivity analysis shows how the fair value is affected in conjuncAkademiska Hus operates in a specific segment of the property martion with changes in different variables. The impact on profit of a change ket, which means that our properties are more adapted to specialist uses in value, however, would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. and consequently they have a slightly more uncertain residual value than for more general properties, such as office buildings and residential AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Impact on fair Other Impact on fair value, percentThere are no limits with regard to the right to sell the properties or use Change value, SEK m age points the rental revenue. Rental revenue, +/one per cent +/458 0.5 All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and Vacant space, +/one percentage point +/748 0.8 generate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted to KSEK 6,050,479 (5,927,669) and the direct costs for the properties Operating costs, +/one per cent +/90 0.1 during the period totalled KSEK 2,095,939 (2,178,553). of which media provision +/45 0.1 Maintenance costs, +/SEK 10/m² +/555 0.8 External valuation To assure the internal valuation, selected properties are valued each year Property administration, +/SEK 10/m² +/555 0.8 by external valuation companies. During the year, valuation buildings at Cost of capital, + one percentage point -5,397 -5.9 a fair value of SEK 27,782 million were valued externally, corresponding Cost of capital, one percentage point 5,949 6.5 to approximately 30 per cent of the Akademiska Hus total fair value. The Yield target, + one percentage point -7,567 -8.3 2019 valuations were carried out by Svefa AB, an appraisal firm that is authorised by the Swedish Professionals for the Built Environment. The Yield target, one percentage point 11,514 12.6 external valuations confirm the reliability of the internal valuation model. A change in maintenance costs that affects the profit and return on equity has been calculated based on actual maintenance costs. The impact on fair value has been calculated based on a standard maintenance cost and standard property administration cost in the valuation model. 13 Properties (Parent Company) Carrying amount for properties amounted to KSEK 45,318,125 Fiscal residual value amounted to KSEK 27,718,787 (27,288,820). (44,373,630). The amount includes land, land systems, buildings, buildThe carrying amount of properties changed as follows during the year: ing equipment, land equipment and ongoing projects. Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Opening acquisition value 58,348,099 55,639,687 Investment in new construction and redevelopment 3,180,449 2,749,796 Sales and disposals -813,388 -41,384 CLOSING ACCUMULATED ACQUISITION VALUE 60,715,160 58,348,099 Opening impairments 6,911,789 7,082,756 Depreciation for the year on revaluations -169,279 -170,967 CLOSING ACCUMULATED REVALUATIONS 6,742,510 6,911,789 Opening depreciation -20,738,738 -19,632,018 Reclassifications -100 -1,218 Sales and disposals 259,099 18,737 Depreciation for the year -1,314,711 -1,124,239 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION ACCORDING TO PLAN -21,794,450 -20,738,738 Opening impairments -147,520 -139,067 Reclassifications 100 1,218 Sales and disposals 10,033 5,068 Reversed impairments 18,362 9,967 Impairments for the year -226,070 -24,706 CLOSING ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENTS -345,095 -147,520 CARRYING AMOUNT 45,318,125 44,373,630 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 14 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 APPROPRIATIONS Change in tax allocation reserve -18,106 543 Difference between recorded depreciation and depreciation according to plan -18,600 -138,100 TOTAL -36,706 -137,557 UNTAXED RESERVES Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2013 — 441,894 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2014 447,887 447,887 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2015 507,298 507,298 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2016 537,145 537,145 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2017 571,000 571,000 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2018 480,000 480,000 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2019 460,000 — Additional depreciation 1,377,139 1,358,539 TOTAL 4,380,469 4,343,763 15 Segment reporting The Group’s operations are controlled and reported by unit. Segment reporting has been prepared using the same accounting policies applied to the Group as a whole. Revenue per segment is based on organisational affiliation, whilst assets and liabilities are based on the tenant’s physical location. All revenue is generated in Sweden and all units engage in property management. For details of larger customers, see Note 4. No sales between the segments have taken place. Investments refer to gross investments in properties, construction of properties in progress and equipment, fixtures and fittings. Other operations refer to operations that are not attributable to the segments. Net operating income is the most important measure of performance and is reported and followed up on a regular basis by the Group’s supreme decision-maker. The profit after net operating income is not reported and is not followed up for each segment. Properties are the asset measurement that is reported internally and is followed up for each segment. Internal follow-up of other assets and liabilities only takes place on the overall level for the Group. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Total, operating Other Segment information 1 Jan. 2019 – 31 Dec. 2019 South Mid-Sweden North segments operations1 Group Rental revenue 1,598,190 2,896,438 1,555,851 6,050,479 — 6,050,479 Other property management income 35,340 85,815 45,023 166,178 190 166,368 Total income 1,633,530 2,982,253 1,600,874 6,216,657 190 6,216,847 Operating costs -285,166 -362,231 -239,575 -886,972 -4,231 -891,203 Maintenance costs -188,559 -223,379 -206,930 -618,868 -44 -618,912 Property administration -80,476 -77,284 -71,212 -228,972 -200,996 -429,968 Other property management expenses -33,398 -55,874 -54,491 -143,763 -12,093 -155,857 Total costs, property management 587,599 -718,768 -572,208 -1,878,575 -217,364 -2,095,939 NET OPERATING INCOME 1,045,931 2,263,485 1,028,666 4,338,082 -217,174 4,120,908 Central administration costs -70,466 Interest income 43,361 Interest expense -420,357 Site leasehold fees -84,128 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,589,318 Change in value, properties 1,063,170 2,583,888 224,446 3,871,504 — 3,871,504 Change in value, financial instruments -503,467 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,957,354 Total assets include: Properties 21,305,675 48,238,745 21,879,469 91,423,889 — 91,423,889 of which invested during the year 687,846 1,935,733 642,703 3,266,282 — 3,266,282 Total, operating Other Segment information 1 Jan. 2018 – 31 Dec. 2018 South Mid-Sweden North segments operations1 Group Rental revenue 1,567,910 2,785,017 1,574,786 5,927,713 -44 5,927,669 Other property management income 48,997 76,280 63,757 189,034 — 189,034 Total income 1,616,907 2,861,297 1,638,543 6,116,747 -44 6,116,703 Operating costs -279,181 -352,454 -248,447 -880,082 -13,552 -893,634 Maintenance costs -182,537 -335,549 -157,811 -675,897 -490 -676,387 Property administration -72,416 -72,400 -58,672 -203,488 -168,907 -372,395 Other property management expenses 2 -41,204 -125,210 -52,991 -219,405 -16,731 -236,136 Total costs, property management -575,338 -885,613 -517,921 -1,978,872 -199,680 -2,178,553 NET OPERATING INCOME 1,041,569 1,975,684 1,120,622 4,137,875 -199,724 3,938,151 Central administration costs -78,069 Interest income 32,057 Interest expense -299,929 Site leasehold fees — PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,592,206 Change in value, properties 322,278 1,531,519 731,233 2,585,030 — 2,585,030 Change in value, financial instruments -359,632 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 5,817,604 Total assets include: Properties 19,570,659 44,927,148 21,367,320 85,865,127 — 85,865,127 of which invested during the year 535,803 1,886,569 419,356 2,841,728 — 2,841,728 1) “Other operations” refer to operations that are not attributable to the respective segment. 2) For 2018 site leasehold fees are included in other property management expenses. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 16 Tax Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Current tax Current tax on profit for the year -336,197 -314,677 -336,197 -314,677 Total current tax -336,197 -314,677 -336,197 -314,677 Deferred tax attributable to temporary differences Financial instruments 35,545 64,851 35,545 64,851 Properties -998,180 -1,006,805 -43,809 -96,728 Tax allocation reserve -3,983 119 — — Pension provisions 3,313 9,705 — — Effect of change in tax rate — 743,148 — 154,939 Total deferred tax -963,305 -188,982 -8,264 123,062 TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR -1,299,502 -503,659 -344,461 -191,615 The difference between the reported tax expense and tax expense based on the current tax rate comprises the following components: Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Reported profit before tax 6,957,354 5,817,604 2,322,378 1,685,908 Tax at the current tax rate -1,488,874 -1,279,873 -496,989 -370,900 Tax effect of expenses that are not tax deductible/taxable (permanent differences): Non-deductible expenses -1,427 -1,738 -1,427 -1,738 Non-taxable revenues — 8,658 — 8,658 Taxable standard interest calculated on the tax allocation reserve -6,095 -2,340 -6,095 -2,340 Non-taxable sale of subsidiary 175,299 — — — Anticipated dividend from subsidiary — — 175,159 — Effect of change in tax rate 38,527 743,148 — 154,939 Adjustment of tax expense for previous years -15,109 28,486 -15,109 19,766 Other -1,823 — — — TOTAL REPORTED TAX EXPENSE -1,299,502 -503,659 -344,461 -191,615 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences Financial instruments 121,871 86,325 121,870 86,325 Pension provisions 72,271 51,617 — — Total, reported deferred tax receivables 194,142 137,942 121,870 86,325 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences Tax allocation reserve -660,733 -656,749 — — Properties -12,109,055 -11,110,875 -2,327,576 -2,283,767 Total, reported deferred tax liability -12,769,788 -11,767,624 -2,327,576 -2,283,767 TOTAL, REPORTED DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY -12,575,646 -11,629,682 -2,205,706 -2,197,442 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Cash flow hedge actuarial gains and losses 17,341 8,193 — TOTAL DEFERRED TAX REPORTED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 17,341 8,193 0 0 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 17 Dividend Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward SEK 744,112,503 The dividend paid to the shareholder on 02 May 2019 totalled SEK Profit for the year SEK 1,977,916,813 1,663,000,000 (1,630,000,000). The dividend per share was SEK 778.92 (763.47). Total SEK 2,722,029,316 As regards the dividend for the year, the Board proposes a dividend of SEK 892.27 per share, for a total of SEK 1,905,000,000, to be paid to the The Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit be alloshareholder as instructed by the owner. A decision regarding a dividend cated in such a way that SEK 1,905,000,000 is paid to the shareholder will be reached by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting. and SEK 817,029,316 is carried forward. The dividend has not been recorded as a liability in the Annual Report. PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M Outcome Changes in value Profit used for consolidated results in the Group calculation of dividend Income from property management 6,217 6,217 Property management expenses -2,096 -2,096 NET OPERATING INCOME 4,121 4,121 Central administration costs -70 -70 Interest income 43 43 Interest expense -420 -420 Site leasehold fees -84 -84 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,589 3,589 Changes in value, properties 3,872 -3,864 8 Changes in value, financial instruments -503 165 -338 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 6,957 -3,699 3,259 Tax/current tax -1,300 762 -538 PROFIT AFTER TAX 5,658 -2,937 2,721 Dividend, 70% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,905 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April 2019 was SEK 1,663 million. 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening acquisition value 98,668 77,199 98,668 77,199 Purchases for the year 6,589 21,470 6,589 21,470 CLOSING ACCUMULATED ACQUISITION VALUE 105,257 98,669 105,257 98,669 Opening depreciation -75,449 -69,082 -75,449 -69,082 Depreciation for the year -8,341 -6,368 -8,341 -6,368 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION -83,790 -75,450 -83,790 -75,450 CARRYING AMOUNT 21,467 23,219 21,467 23,219 During the year KSEK 3,929 (0) was invested in intangible assets. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 19 Shares in Group companies Parent Company 2019 2018 Opening acquisition value 650 650 Acquisition of subsidiaries — — Sale of subsidiaries — — CARRYING AMOUNT 650 650 Registered Total number Share of Parent Company directly owned companies Company reg.no office of shares equity in %1 2019 2018 Akademiska Hus Utveckling och Support AB 556610-2975 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 500 500 Kunskapsmiljön 7 AB 556966-0037 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 50 50 Akademiska Hus Holding AB 556981-6803 Gothenburg 100 (100) 100 (100) 100 100 TOTAL 650 650 Registered Total number Share of Parent Company indirectly owned companies Company reg. no office of shares equity in %1 2019 2018 Akademiska Hus Kunskapen 1 AB 559210-5687 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 50 0 TOTAL 50 0 1) Corresponds to the number of votes. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 20 Loans and financial instruments 2019 Derivatives measured Measured at fair at fair value through value through Measured at Total carrying FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY, SEK 1,000 profit and loss profit and loss amortised cost amount Total fair value Non-current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 1,312,430 1,312,430 1,312,430 Cross currency interest rate derivatives 2,991,135 2,991,135 2,991,135 Electricity derivatives TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 4,303,565 — — 4,303,565 4,303,565 Current assets Currency derivatives 1,256 1,256 1,256 Interest rate derivatives 5,234 5,234 5,234 Cross currency interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives 7,017 7,017 7,017 Current investments 2,179,944 2,179,944 2,179,944 Accounts receivable 538,450 538,450 538,450 Cash and cash equivalents 2,157,014 2,157,014 2,157,014 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 13,507 2,179,944 2,695,464 4,888,915 4,888,915 Non-current liabilities Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives -1,660,141 -1,660,141 -1,660,141 Cross currency interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives -62 -62 -62 Swedish bonds -10,566,332 -10,566,332 -13,185,977 Foreign bonds -18,142,983 -18,142,983 -18,142,983 Other loans -1,307,163 -1,307,163 -1,334,732 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES -1,660,203 -18,142,983 -11,873,495 -31,676,681 -34,232,895 Current liabilities Currency derivatives -124,245 -124,245 -124,245 Interest rate derivatives -10,129 -10,129 -10,129 Cross currency interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives ECP -3,545,890 -3,545,890 -3,546,340 Swedish bonds -1,368,877 -1,368,877 -1,388,511 Foreign bonds Other loans -16,990 -16,990 -16,990 Accounts payable -300,755 -300,755 -300,755 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES -134,374 — -5,232,513 -5,366,886 -5,386,970 T  he amount shown in the table is the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company has KSEK 1,338,129 in cash and cash equivalents. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes. The fair value of accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and accounts payable corresponds to the carrying amount. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 2018 Derivatives measured Measured at fair at fair value through value through Measured at Total carrying FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY, SEK 1,000 profit and loss profit and loss amortised cost amount Total fair value Non-current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 805,937 805,937 805,937 Cross currency interest rate derivatives 791,999 791,999 791,999 Electricity derivatives 16,324 16,324 16,324 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,614,260 — — 1,614,260 1,614,260 Current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 25,439 25,439 25,439 Cross currency interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives 41,408 41,408 41,408 Current investments 1,841,605 1,841,605 1,841,605 Accounts receivable 651,707 651,707 651,707 Cash and cash equivalents 1,462,187 1,462,187 1,462,187 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 66,847 1,841,605 2,113,894 4,022,346 4,022,346 Non-current liabilities Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives -829,817 -829,817 -829,817 Cross currency interest rate derivatives -111,513 -111,513 -111,513 Electricity derivatives Swedish bonds -11,719,726 -11,719,726 -13,727,590 Foreign bonds -15,220,104 -15,220,104 -15,220,104 Other loans -1,322,137 -1,322,137 -1,033,211 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES -941,330 -15,220,104 -13,041,863 -29,203,297 -30,922,235 Current liabilities Currency derivatives -28,267 -28,267 -28,267 Interest rate derivatives -107,857 -107,857 -107,857 Cross currency interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives ECP -2,800,067 -2,800,067 -2,854,672 Swedish bonds -2,443,110 -2,443,110 -2,455,813 Foreign bonds Other loans -15,514 -15,514 -15,514 Accounts payable -415,958 -415,958 -415,958 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES -136,124 — -5,674,649 -5,810,773 -5,878,081 The amount shown in the table is the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company has KSEK 1,462,043 in cash and cash equivalents. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes. The fair value of accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and accounts payable corresponds to the carrying amount. Loans FINANCING COST The Group’s financing takes place mainly through the public financing The finance net amounted to SEK -965 million (-628) and the average programmes. Through their standardised terms and conditions, these net debt portfolio was SEK 31,014 million (29,941). The financing cost permit rational, cost-effective financing. The Group has international amounted to 2.60 per cent (2.30), calculated as interest expense in relaECP and EMTN programmes, as well as a domestic commercial paper tion to debt, excluding site leasehold fees and pensions. The changes in programme. The MTN programme has not been updated since 2009. value in the financial derivative instruments correspond to an increase Loans are reported at amortised cost except for loans included in the in interest expense of 1.39 per cent (1.33). hedge accounting which are measured at fair value through profit and loss. The Group’s risk management is presented in note 21 Financial risk management. The average capital for bank financing during 2019 was SEK 60 million (103). AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN, % The currency and interest risks that arise in conjunction with longterm financing, usually bonds in foreign currency, are hedged with cross 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 currency interest rate derivatives. The changes in value for each instruLoan financing cost, ment can be attributed to changes in both exchange rates and interest including charges 1.07 0.88 0.74 0.83 1.38 rates. Hedge accounting is applied for these forms of financing, where only the inefficiency that arises due to different valuation practices is Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.14 0.09 0.20 0.47 0.58 recognised in the income statement. Financing cost, % 1.21 0.97 0.94 1.30 1.96 Changes in value, Financial instruments valued at fair value financial derivatives, % 1.39 1.33 0.85 0.85 -0.74 The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities that are valTOTAL FINANCING COST 2.60 2.30 1.79 2.15 1.22 ued at fair value. They are classified in a hierarchy, comprising three levels and based on the information used to determine their fair value. Level 1 refers to when fair value is determined by listed prices on active EFFECT OF FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES ON PROFIT markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 refers to when fair Independent interest rate derivatives are reported at fair value and varivalue is set based on observable data other than listed prices on active ations in market value are recognised in net interest income and markets. Level 3 refers to when the set fair value is essentially based on expense. Interest derivatives are mainly entered into with the aim of data that is not observable, i.e. the Company’s own assumptions. The fair extending the fixed interest period in the debt portfolio, which largely value of financial assets and liabilities is set by using information that is consists of financing at floating interest rates. Falling interest rates entail attributable to one or more of the above-mentioned levels. The classifia negative impact on profit from these interest rate derivatives and the cation is determined by the lowest level in the hierarchy for the informaopposite is true when interest rates rise. The changes in value relate to tion that has a material impact on the value. The Group mainly holds the changed present value of future cash flows from interest rate derivaderivatives that are on level 2. The valuation of the instruments is done tives, at prevailing interest rates. Consequently these do not have any according to the zero coupon method, which means that all the future immediate effect on cash flow, as long as they remain unrealised. Certain cash flows of the instrument are set at the current value. The zero couinterest rate derivatives are closed and settled on an ongoing basis pon interest rates used to discount the cash flows are calculated accord(monthly or quarterly) and replaced with new ones, which means that ing to practice using DEPO/FRA/SWAP listings as a foundation. The profits are continuously realised. Falling interest rates, combined with source of this information is real-time data from Bloomberg. interest rate derivatives for purposes of extension, mean that interest expense will be higher than if the extension had not been implemented. However, the lower interest rate can be used when refinancing and with sales of fixed interest at a later date. As time passes, no surplus or deficit values of interest rate derivatives will remain at maturity. 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Current investments 2,179,944 2,179,944 Independent derivatives 1,325,937 1,325,937 Fair value hedges 2,991,135 2,991,135 TOTAL ASSETS — 6,497,016 — 6,497,016 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Independent derivatives -1,794,577 -1,794,577 Fair value hedges Bonds (fair value) -18,142,983 -18,142,983 TOTAL LIABILITIES — -19,937,560 — -19,937,560 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Current investments 1,841,605 1,841,605 Independent derivatives 889,108 889,108 Fair value hedges 791,999 791,999 TOTAL ASSETS — 3,522,712 — 3,522,712 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss -965,941 -965,941 Independent derivatives -111,513 -111,513 Fair value hedges Bonds (fair value) -15,220,104 -15,220,104 TOTAL LIABILITIES — -16,297,558 — -16,297,558 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Fair value measurement Measurement method Fair value Impact on profit Fair value Impact on profit Derivatives – independent Discounted cash flows: The valuation model and in hedge relationship uses the present value of future cash flows 2,522,495 830,320 603,653 -235,113 Current investments: Discounted cash flows: The valuation model Discount paper uses the present value of future cash flows 2,179,944 -93 1,841,605 -1,649 Discounted cash flows: The valuation model Bond uses the present value of future cash flows -18,142,983 -1,331,855 -15,220,104 -124,519 MATERIAL CONTRACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The general terms and conditions for the EMTN and MTN programmes The Group strives to achieve good growth in profit, financial sustainabilinclude a clause which specifies that if the Swedish state ceases, directly ity and financial capacity. The financial objectives are set to provide or indirectly, to hold more than 50 per cent of the shares, equivalent to a combination of a high return on equity, high growth capacity and finanmore than 50 per cent of the shareholding and more than 50 per cent of cial stability. the votes, the loans and any interest shall fall due for repayment immediAccording to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, the ately. The contractual terms and conditions for the short-term financing dividend should amount to between 40 and 70 per cent of the net profit programmes do not include any equivalent undertaking. Ever since the after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and related deferred tax. programmes were established, the Group’s policy has been not to accept When deciding on a dividend, consideration should be given to the any terms and conditions that require, for example, that a certain rating, Group’s capital structure and capital requirements. The equity ratio equity ratio or interest coverage ratio be maintained. should be between 35 and 45 per cent and return on operating capital should be at least 6.0 per cent over a business cycle. HEDGE ACCOUNTING At the end of 2019, the equity ratio was 45.7 per cent (45.8) for the When financing in a foreign currency, all future payment flows are Group and 18.5 per cent (19.4) for the Parent Company. After the divihedged so that the exchange risk is eliminated. Through cross currency dend of SEK 1,905 million proposed by the Board of Directors, the equity interest rate derivatives agreements, all interest payments, both fixed ratio will be 44.7 per cent for the Group and 15.7 per cent for the Parent and floating, are hedged as well as future repayments. All the measures Company. taken have the express purpose of hedging and eliminating an exchange The Group’s capital structure comprises an interest-bearing net loan rate risk so that all financing is denominated in Swedish kronor. Effecdebt and equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder (share tive hedging means that changes in the value of the hedged position and capital, other contributed capital, retained earnings, including profit for the hedging instrument on balance counteract each other. the year). Group Parent Company Capital management, SEK 1,000 2019 2018 2019 2018 Gross debt -34,948,235 -33,520,658 -34,948,235 -33,520,658 Assets Collateral for derivatives, net -2,567,318 -890,663 -2,567,318 -890,663 Cash and cash equivalents 4,336,958 3,303,792 3,518,073 3,303,648 Current receivables 277,509 691,869 277,509 691,869 NET DEBT -32,901,086 -30,415,660 -33,719,917 -30,415,804 Interest-bearing portion of pension liability -661,924 -555,339 -311,094 -304,772 Site leasehold fees -2,736,336 — — — TOTAL INTEREST­-BEARING DEBT -36,299,346 -30,970,999 -34,031,065 -30,720,576 All loans are included in gross debt. The net debt portfolio includes some current receivables, cash and cash equivalents and security transfers for derivatives. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 21 Financial risk management (Group) Akademiska Hus carries on active debt management where the strategy Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate, is to weigh the financial risks, given the existing mandate, against the must not exceed 5 per cent (10) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the desired low and stable financing cost over time. The two key policy docuyear, index-linked bonds totalling SEK 500 million (900) were issued, ments adopted by the Board are: equivalent to 1.5 per cent (2.7) of the total portfolio. • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the Basic portfolio – consists of the remaining portion of commercial Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to handle these paper, ECPs, bonds, loans and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio is risks, as well as the allocation of accountability. managed within an average fixed interest period mandate. The current • Plan for handling financial risks (Risk Plan): Justifies annual manmandate is a fixed interest period of 3 to 6 years (3 to 6 years). The fixed dates for financial risk management in the light of the risk scenario interest period at the year-end was 3.6 years (4.1), including interest and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in derivatives. financial markets, including both opportunities and challenges from the point of view of debt management. MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR LIABILITY MATURITY AND FIXED INTEREST PERIODS, SEK M INTEREST RATE RISK Maturity Fixed interest The term “interest risk” refers to the risk that the Group’s net interest SEK m SEK m income and expense may vary due to a change in market interest rates. A 2020 5,044 13,825 balance must be reached between saving and uncertainty on the one 2021–2025 10,535 11,764 hand and higher costs (risk premium) and predictability on the other. The average fixed interest period is a measure of the sensitivity in net 2026–2030 3,880 900 interest income and expense in conjunction with a change in market 2031–2035 776 200 interest rates; The longer the fixed interest period, the longer it takes for 2036–2040 3,032 2,301 an interest rate change to be reflected in current cash flow. Since it is not 2041–2045 6,725 2,530 possible to achieve a desired fixed interest on individual financing occasions, interest derivatives are used to adjust the fixed interest period. 2046–2050 2,033 505 According to the Finance Policy, there should be a mandate to manTOTAL 32,025 32,025 age interest rate risk in the three main sub-portfolios as follows: Long-term bond portfolio – bonds denominated in SEK with fixed The table above shows the nominal amounts. Cross currency interest interest and maturity terms in excess of 15 years. These bonds represent rate derivatives affect the financial position and earnings of the Group as a significant interest risk exposure, which justifies a separate mandate. shown in the tables below. Hedge accounting is applied for cross curThe portfolio is therefore permitted to amount to a maximum of 20 per rency interest rate derivatives. cent (20) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the year, long-term bonds totalling SEK 5,567 million (5,576) were issued, equivalent to 16.8 per cent (17.0) of the total portfolio. 2019 CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES WHERE HEDGE ACCOUNTING IS APPLIED AUD CHF EUR HKD USD Carrying amount (SEK 1,000) 75,221 1,524,051 1,196,165 104,506 91,192 Nominal amount in each currency 91,000 850,000 510,000 1,314,000 100,000 Maturity 2026–2032 2021-2044 2032–2048 2021 2023-2027 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 Change in value for outstanding derivatives since 1 January SEK 1,000 -76,550 -949,315 -1,087,049 -103,849 -90,294 Change in value of the hedged item to determine effectiveness SEK 1,000 73,704 914,169 1,022,294 108,400 90,424 Weighted average for forward rate during the year 3.52 0.82 1.73 1.86 2.78 2018 CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES WHERE HEDGE ACCOUNTING IS APPLIED AUD CHF EUR HKD USD Carrying amount (SEK 1,000) -1,284 581,954 96,537 1,625 1,653 Nominal amount in each currency 91,000 850,000 440,000 1,314,000 100,000 Maturity 2026–2032 2021-2044 2032–2048 2021 2023–2027 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 Change in value for outstanding derivatives since 1 January SEK 1,000 1,656 348,083 103,566 120,038 62,399 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes In conjunction with debt issuance denominated in foreign currency, Currency derivatives affect the financial position and earnings of the Akademiska Hus enters into cross currency interest rate derivative Group as follows: agreements where the critical terms match for the hedged item and the Currency derivatives where hedge hedging instrument. Accounting ineffectiveness arises since the basis accounting is not applied, SEK 1,000 2019 2018 spreads only affect the market valuation of derivatives and not the valuaCarrying amount -122,989 -28,267 tion of the issued bonds. Nominal amount 3,689,810 2,858,118 Interest rate swaps affect the financial position and earnings of the Maturity 2020 2019 Group as shown in the table below. LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISK Interest rate derivatives where hedge 2019 2018 Refers to the risk that the Group will be exposed to higher than expected accounting is not applied, SEK 1,000 Fair value Fair value expenses or that financing potential is limited when loans are due to be Carrying amount -352,604 -106,298 refinanced. The aim is to limit the costs of maturity by seeking to strike a balance between short-term, medium-term and long-term financing, Nominal amount 6,150,000 3,600,000 and endeavouring to achieve diversification between different financing Maturity 2020–2024 2019–2028 arrangements and markets. The Group’s extremely high creditworthiness allows a diversified supply of credit through the public financing The table above shows the nominal amount and maturity for the swaps programmes. that are current as at the closing day. Nominal amount for forward startAccording to the maturity mandate, a maximum of 40 per cent (40) ing swaps is KSEK 4,600,000 (9,600,000). may fall due for refinancing within a 12-month period. At the year-end the percentage maturing within 12 months was 17.6 per cent (16.1 per Interest sensitivity cent). Unutilised credit facilities should be in place to guarantee good Akademiska Hus’ profit is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense due payment capacity. to changes in interest rates. Interest risk shows a change in value in SEK The Group’s cash and bank balances at the end of 2019 totalled SEK 1,000 at an interest rate movement of one percentage point. This interest 4,337 million (3,304). At year-end, there were also committed credit sensitivity amounts to KSEK 22,263 (22,160) at year-end 2019. facilities in banks for a total of SEK 5,500 million (5,500). FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Rating Framework Utilised, A foreign currency risk is the risk that exchange rate changes will have FINANCING PROGRAMMES Standard Rating 31 Dec. nominal 31 an impact on the Income Statements and Statement of financial posiAND RATING & Poor’s Moody’s 2019 Dec. 2019 tion. According to the Finance Policy, all foreign currency risk in conCommitted credit junction with financing in foreign currency should be eliminated since facilities in bank SEK 5,500 m the operation is denominated exclusively in Swedish kronor. All payCommercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m ment flows in foreign currency attributable to financing are therefore EUR hedged with the aid of forward rate agreements and cross currency ECP (Euro Commercial Paper1) A1+ P-1 1,200 m EUR 344 m derivative agreements. MTN (Medium Term Note) AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 650 m CURRENCY BREAKDOWN, LOANS AND DERIVATIVES, SEK M EMTN (Euro Medium EUR EUR Term Note) AA/A1+ 4,000 m 2,729 m Original currency Loans Derivatives Total 1) Not updated since 2009. AUD 595 -595 0 CHF 8,197 -8,197 0 The following table shows the remaining contractual term for the Group’s financial liabilities. The liquidity flows are not discounted and EUR 5,336 -5,336 0 foreign flows have been translated at the rate on the closing date. For HKD 1,576 -1,576 0 those instruments where the future floating rate of interest is unknown, SEK 13,234 18,651 31,885 the rate of interest has been calculated with the aid of the implicit forward interest rates for the yield curve on the closing date. Use is made USD 4,484 -4,484 0 primarily of rental revenue to meet the obligations linked to the Group’s TOTAL 33,422 -1,537 31,885 financial liabilities presented in the table below. The rental revenue falls due for payment quarterly and is subject to long agreement terms. The The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts have credit risk associated with rental revenue is considered low. been recalculated at the year-end rate. Current Liquidity risk, DeriinvestAccounts Reference rates SEK m Loans vatives ments payable Total As a result of the IBOR reform, we will use new reference rates in the 2020 -6,124 -43 2,180 -301 -4,288 future. The table for currency distribution above shows outstanding 2021 -4,624 -35 -4,658 nominal volumes for our bonds denominated in foreign currency for 2022 -1,371 -13 -1,384 which we apply hedge accounting. The change in reference rate will affect the market valuation of these bonds and their associated deriva2023 -798 31 -767 tives. We are monitoring developments related to this reform, but 2024 -2,583 42 -2,541 believe that it will have a limited impact on accounting. 2025–2029 -8,355 310 -8,045 2030–2034 -2,369 -407 -2,776 2035–2039 -3,567 -291 -3,858 2040–2044 -6,496 -16 -6,513 2045–2049 -3,476 -3,476 TOTAL -39,763 -422 2,180 -301 -38,306 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes The table below shows the Group’s exposure to counter-party risks CREDIT RISK AND COUNTER-PARTY RISK divided according to different rating categories: The risk of a loss if a counter-party does not meet its undertakings. The Counter-party risks, Collateral Group is exposed when surplus liquidity is placed in financial assets and excluding rent received/ Net in conjunction with claims for change in value of derivatives. The Risk receivables, SEK m Receivable Liability granted exposure Plan includes a limit system where permitted exposure depends on the INSTITUTIONS WITH A credit rating of the counter party, ownership and the term of the comLONG RATING mitment. The limits are related to the Group’s risk capacity in the form AA-/Aa3 51 -52 7 -8 of equity. In addition, investments should be characterised by good A+/A1 1,457 1,467 10 liquidity in the secondary market. A/A2 336 384 -48 The Group’s policy is that internationally standardised netting agreements, ISDA agreements, was always be signed with a counter-party BBB+/Baa1 403 432 -29 before uncleared derivative transactions take place. As at 31 December BBB+/Baa2 only with CSA 316 313 3 2019, the total counter-party exposure in derivatives (calculated as the INSTITUTIONS WITH ONLY net claim per counter-party) was at SEK 2,546 million (683). With the A SHORT RATING aim of reducing exposure to a counter-party risk, the Group has entered K-1 into a number of supplementary agreements, Credit Support Annexes Companies wholly owned (CSA), to the ISDA agreements. The agreements mean that the parties by the Swedish state 1,675 1,675 mutually undertake to make collateral available in the form of cash and cash equivalents or bonds for the undervalues in outstanding derivative Companies wholly owned by the Swedish state 505 505 contracts. At year-end, the Group had received collateral of SEK 2,603 million (902) net. TOTAL 4,743 -52 2,603 2,088 The table below shows financial assets and liabilities (derivatives) that are not offset in the balance sheet, but are covered by framework CREDIT RISK ATTRIBUTABLE TO RENT RECEIVABLES agreements for netting or similar agreements: A large proportion of the Group’s receivables are rent receivables. The maximum credit risk exposure for rent receivables and accounts Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by receivable is equal to their carrying amounts. However, the assessed framework agreements for netting or similar credit risk in rent receivables is low in the light of the high credit rating agreements of the tenants. 2019 Carrying ELECTRICITY PRICE RISK SEK 1,000 amount Collateral Net The risk approach and mandate for handling the electricity price risk is Derivatives financial assets 4,317,072 -2,645,232 1,671,840 governed by the guidelines for purchasing electricity. The term “electricity price risk” refers to the risk that the future price of electricity will Derivatives financial liabilities -1,794,577 41,575 -1,753,002 affect the Group’s operating costs negatively and with low predictability. TOTAL 2,522,495 -2,603,657 -81,162 With the aim of reducing exposure to changes in the electricity price, different financial price-hedging instruments are used (electricity derivatives). The Group stipulates a long-term price hedging strategy. Trade in physical electric power (spot) and financial price-hedging instruments Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by framework agreements for netting or similar takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party risk, all finanagreements cial trading is cleared through third party against which Akademiska Hus 2018 pledges and receives security, depending on whether the derivative position has a positive or negative value. Carrying SEK 1,000 amount Collateral Net Electricity derivatives affect the financial position and earnings of the Group as follows: Derivatives financial assets 1,681,107 -1,005,356 675,751 Derivatives financial liabilities -1,077,454 103,710 -973,744 Electricity derivatives where hedge TOTAL 603,653 -901,646 -297,993 accounting is not applied 2019 2018 Carrying amount, SEK 1,000 6,955 57,732 The net amount for 2018 was relatively high because of a difference Nominal amount (MWh) 936,908 1,329,785 between the day of valuation and day of transaction for transfer of collatMaturity 2020-2022 2019-2021 eral (GAP risk). During these days certain prices were volatile. RISK CONTROL Ongoing work is being done to improve the level of expertise, routines and internal control. There is strict allocation of responsibility between the Treasury and Risk Control. The unit handles accounting and administration as well as compliance with the mandates. The task of developing and refining analytical support and risk control is ongoing. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 22 Maturity structure, receivables Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Receivables expected to be cleared within one year of the year-end 1,655,785 2,239,827 1,655,935 2,239,827 Receivables expected to be cleared within 1–5 years of the year-end 1,267,769 1,277,577 1,267,769 1,277,577 Receivables expected to be cleared later than five years after the year-end 3,539,848 767,018 3,539,848 767,018 TOTAL 6,463,402 4,284,422 6,463,552 4,284,422 23 Other non-current receivables Other non-interest-bearing receivables will be cleared as follows: Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Cleared within 5 years 386,326 272,635 386,326 272,635 Cleared after 5 years 117,726 157,698 117,726 157,698 TOTAL NON-INTEREST-­BEARING RECEIVABLES 504,052 430,333 504,052 430,333 24 Rent receivables and accounts receivable Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 552,800 658,138 552,800 658,138 Provision, doubtful rent receivables and accounts receivable -14,350 -6,431 -14,350 -6,431 TOTAL 538,450 651,707 538,450 651,707 Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported at amortised cost. as at 31 December 2019, KSEK 118,357 were 1–5 days overdue, The fair value of rent receivables and accounts receivable concurs with KSEK 6,190 were 6–30 days overdue, KSEK 18,402 were 31–60 days the carrying amount as of the year-end and there is no impairment overdue and KSEK 45,899 were more than 60 days overdue. Overdue requirement. Of the overdue rent receivables and accounts receivable receivables do not include impaired receivables. Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Opening balance -6,431 -828 -6,431 -828 Provisions for the year -9,002 -5,822 -9,002 -5,822 Established credit losses 1,083 219 1,083 219 CLOSING BALANCE -14,350 -6,431 -14,350 -6,431 25 Other current receivables Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 VAT receivable 488,629 447,148 488,629 447,148 Settlement, taxes and charges 277,509 691,870 277,509 691,870 Other current receivables 195,275 252,418 195,274 252,418 TOTAL 961,413 1,391,436 961,412 1,391,436 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Accrued rent 42,554 45,148 42,554 45,148 Prepaid operating costs 30,489 31,638 30,489 31,638 Other 20,435 17,713 20,435 17,713 TOTAL 93,479 94,499 93,479 94,499 27 Cash and cash equivalents Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Current investments 2,179,944 1,841,605 2,179,944 1,841,605 Cash and bank balances 2,157,014 1,462,187 1,338,129 1,462,043 TOTAL 4,336,958 3,303,792 3,518,073 3,303,648 Cash and cash equivalents are recognised and measured at cost. Fair respect of pledged assets for exchange-cleared derivatives are included value is equivalent to the carrying amount. Current investments comto the amount of KSEK 9,807 (4,967) in the reported amount for cash prise temporary surplus liquidity that is invested in the short term. and bank balances for the Group and the Parent Company. This is a These investments are measured at fair value. Current investments can buffer to cover expected daily collateral requirements. be found on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Blocked bank funds in 28 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Opening balance 0 6,814 0 6,814 Transferred to operating profit — -6,814 — -6,814 CLOSING BALANCE 0 0 0 0 In 2018 Akademiska Hus decided that it would no longer apply hedge through profit and loss. The tax effect, KSEK 0 (0), refers to the change accounting for cash flow hedges. New hedges are instead recognised for the year. The closing deferred tax receivable/payable is reported in Note 16 Taxes. 29 Other liabilities Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Other interest­-bearing liabilities 2,645,232 1,005,356 2,645,232 1,005,356 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 233,126 286,041 233,726 286,641 TOTAL 2,878,358 1,291,397 2,878,958 1,291,997 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes The fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount of other liabilities. Salary risk – The present value of the defined benefit commitment is The Parent Company has entered into a supplementary agreement, calculated in the light of future salaries for members of the plan. Major a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to the ISDA agreement, with the aim of salary increases compared with what was included in the actuarial calcuhandling exposure to counter-party risks in derivatives. The agreement lations entail a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could means that the parties mutually undertake to furnish collateral in the the Group’s pension expense. form of cash and cash equivalents or securities with a good rating for Income base amount – The present value of the defined benefit obliundervalues in outstanding derivatives. The agreement in turn gives the gations is calculated in the light of future increases in the income base secured party right of disposal of collateral received. As of the year-end, amount. A larger increase than assumed in the actuarial calculations the Group received collateral through the CSA agreements totalling means a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the KSEK 2,645,232 (1,005,356). Group’s pension expense. Of the Group’s other liabilities, KSEK 2,767,099 falls due for payment The actuarial computation of the pension commitments and pension within one year of the year-end, KSEK 0 within one to five years of the costs is based on the following assumptions: year-end, and KSEK 111,259 later than five years after the year-end. Assumptions 2019 2018 Discount rate, % 1.50 2.35 30 Provisions for pensions Salary increase, % 2.80 3.00 Inflation, % 1.80 2.00 The Group’s pension commitments include both defined contribution Income base amount, % 2.30 2.50 and defined benefit pension plans according to collective bargaining Personnel turnover, % 2.00 2.00 agreements. Remaining period of service, years 10.20 10.70 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS Mortality DUS14 DUS14 The Group’s defined contribution pension plans, ITP1 and Alternative ITP (a pension for high-income earners) and flex pension cover all Group Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on public statistics and employees. The defined contribution pension plans mainly comprise a experience of mortality calculations in Sweden and have been adopted in retirement pension, sickness pension and family pension. The premiums consultation with actuarial experts. These assumptions result in the folare paid continuously throughout the year to different insurance compalowing average remaining life expectancy for a person who retires at the nies. The premiums are based on salary. age of 65: The total cost for the financial year for defined contribution pension plans excluding payroll tax (Group and Parent Company) amounted to KSEK 28,410 (27,355). Estimated average remaining life expectancy, years 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Retirement at the year-end All Group employees are covered by the Group’s defined benefit pension Men 21.8 21.8 plan, ITP 2. According to this plan, the employees are entitled to pension Women 24.4 24.4 benefits based on their pensionable income as well as the number of Retirement 20 years after the year-end years of service. The pension plan mainly comprises a retirement pension, sickness pension and family pension. The pension commitments Men 23.6 23.6 are secured through provisions in the PRI system as well as the ITP plan Women 25.5 25.5 family pension, sickness pension and occupational group life through insurance premiums. All pension commitments which the Akademiska The following amounts regarding the defined benefit pension cost Hus Group took over from the National Board of Public Building when are reported in the Income Statement: the Company was formed on 1 October 1993 are defined benefit plans, secured through provisions in the Statement of Financial Position, guaranteed by the National Debt Office and administered by the National Amount reported in the Income Statement 2019 2018 Government Employees’ Pension Board (SPV). All defined benefit pension commitments are credit-insured by PRI Pensionsgaranti. Benefits earned during the year 24,117 21,011 The most recent actuarial calculation of the present value of the Interest on pension provision 13,467 12,767 defined benefit commitment was carried out by an authorised actuary on PARTS OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT 31 December 2019. When calculating the present value of the defined PENSION COST REPORTED IN benefit commitment and associated costs for employment during the THE PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 37,584 33,778 current and previous periods, the Projected Unit Credit Method was used. The defined benefit costs have been reported as a personnel cost and The ITP 2 plan exposes the Group to a number of actuarial risks, such interest cost respectively. The following actuarial gains and losses have as an interest risk, risk regarding life expectancy and the increase in the been reported under Total comprehensive income: income base amount. Interest risk – A reduction in the bond interest rate will increase the Total amount reported under pension liability. Possible future decreases in the interest rate on firstOther comprehensive income 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 class mortgage bonds in SEK could thus entail a risk that the Group’s Actuarial gains and losses that pension expense and undertakings could increase. arise as a result of changes in Life expectancy risk – The present value of the defined benefit obligafinancial assumptions 85,013 24,574 tion is calculated with consideration given to the Group’s best assessActuarial gains and losses that arise ment regarding mortality for members of the plan, both during and after as a result of changes in experience -835 15,198 employment. There is a risk that life expectancy will increase for the TOTAL AMOUNT REPORTED UNDER members of the plan, which would in that case increase both the pension OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 84,178 39,772 costs and the Group’s commitment. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes The change for the period in the defined benefit obligation can be seen in FUTURE PAYMENTS the following table: The Group is expected to pay KSEK 39,715 (37,584) in charges for the defined benefit plan during the forthcoming financial year. Change in the defined benefit obligation for the period 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Opening balance 555,339 496,522 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS IN THE PARENT COMPANY Service costs during the period 24,117 21,011 Net interest cost 13,467 12,767 The reported pension liability in the Parent Company comprises: Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) Changes in financial assumptions 85,013 24,574 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Experience-based adjustments -835 15,198 FPG/PRI pensions 254,902 244,951 Pension payments -15,177 -14,733 Other pensions 56,192 59,821 CLOSING BALANCE 661,924 555,339 TOTAL 311,094 304,772 Other pensions in the Parent Company mainly refer to the historical The estimated term of the Group’s defined benefit pension commitment pension liability that was taken over from the National Board of Public can be seen in the following table: Building when the Akademiska Hus Group was founded in 1993. Pension commitments and provisions for pension commitments for the defined benefit plans in the Parent Company have changed as Estimated term for the pension follows: commitment 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Fall due for payment within one year of the year-end 14,925 14,863 Pension commitments 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Fall due for payment 1–5 years after the year-end 62,115 57,793 Opening balance 304,772 290,069 Fall due for payment later than five Pension costs, defined benefit plans 14,309 18,058 years after the year-end 584,884 482,683 Interest expense 12,419 11,897 TOTAL 661,924 555,339 Payments -15,336 -15,252 Prepaid pension funds -5,070 — Below is a sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligations reflecting changes in the applied assumptions for the discount rate, inflation and CLOSING BALANCE 311,094 304,772 wage growth. The sensitivity analysis is based on the change in one assumption while all other assumptions are held constant. Such a sceThe total pension cost in the Parent Company is broken down as follows: nario is unlikely in practice, and changes in certain assumptions can be correlated. 2019 2018 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 14,309 18,058 Interest part of the pension cost 12,419 11,897 Sensitivity analysis, pension obligations 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 PENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 26,728 29,955 Recorded pension obligation under the reported assumptions 661,924 555,339 Discount rate increases Pension costs, by 0.5 percentage points 596,054 502,101 defined contribution plans 28,410 27,355 Discount rate decreases Employer’s contribution and tax on the by 0.5 percentage points 737,488 616,162 yield, other pension costs 13,040 13,593 Inflation increases TOTAL PENSION COSTS 68,178 70,903 by 0.5 percentage points 715,296 598,672 Wage growth increases by 0.5 percentage points 704,382 590,405 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Accrued 31 expenses and prepaid income Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Prepaid rental revenue 1,852,243 1,700,135 1,852,243 1,700,135 Accrued salary and personnel costs 45,105 43,184 45,105 43,184 Accrued operating and maintenance costs 98,119 106,359 98,119 106,359 Accrued investments 33,591 33,160 33,591 33,160 Accrued interest 222,892 213,665 222,892 213,665 Other interim liabilities 78,422 57,806 78,422 57,806 TOTAL 2,330,372 2,154,309 2,330,372 2,154,309 32 Maturity structure, liabilities Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Liabilities due for payment within one year of the year-end 10,464,357 9,210,151 10,467,109 9,212,904 Liabilities due for payment within 1–5 years of the year-end 8,754,263 9,711,837 8,754,263 9,711,837 Liabilities due for payment later than five years after the year-end 39,007,583 31,722,810 25,550,476 22,040,002 TOTAL 58,226,203 50,644,798 44,771,848 40,964,743 33 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciation, etc 8,341 6,368 1,580,198 1,315,493 Change in value, properties -3,950,612 -2,676,962 — — Capital gain (-)/loss (+) on sale of tangible, non-current assets — — -94,555 -1,423 Changes in value, financial instruments -64,004 359,797 -64,004 359,797 Dividends from subsidiaries — — -818,500 — Change in pension provisions and similar commitments 22,407 31,581 6,322 29,579 Other 57,766 -33,389 63,301 -28,227 TOTAL -3,926,102 -2,312,605 672,762 1,675,219 Purchase sum in conjunction with investments, Comments financing activities acquisitions and disposals Opening liabilities for interest-bearing liabilities including derivatives in For investments and acquisitions for the period, a total of the Group totalled KSEK 34,598,112. The closing balance amounted to KSEK 3,190,527 (2,776,089) has been paid by the Group, of which KSEK 36,742,812. This increase consists of a positive cash flow of KSEK KSEK 3,190,527 was paid in cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Com862,230 from financing activities and changes that do not affect cash flow pany also invested KSEK 0 (0) in shares in subsidiaries. For disposals for of KSEK 1,282,469 relating to amortisation of premiums/discounts, the period, a total of KSEK 1,579,023 (6,000) has been received, of which exchange rates and fair value. The equivalent also applies for the Parent KSEK 1,579,023 was received in cash and cash equivalents. Company. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 34 Pledged assets Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Blocked bank funds 9,807 4,967 9,807 4,967 Current investments 77,914 114,692 77,914 114,692 TOTAL 87,721 119,659 87,721 119,659 Unsettled results from transactions as well as standardised computed safety margins using exchange-cleared derivatives have been secured through blocked bank funds. 35 Contingent liabilities Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Contingent liability, FPG/PR 5,199 4,899 5,199 4,899 TOTAL 5,199 4,899 5,199 4,899 36 Transactions with related parties In conjunction with intra-Group purchases and sales, the same pricing assets take place at the carrying amount. There were no transactions principles are applied as would have been the case in transactions with with the President, Board of Directors or senior executives, apart from an external party. Intra-Group property purchases and sales take place salary and other remuneration, see Note 10. subject to a fiscal residual value. Purchases and sales of other current Transactions with Group companies are shown in the table below. Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 INCOME Companies within the Akademiska Hus Group — — 388,841 — TOTAL — 388,841 — RECEIVABLES Companies within the Akademiska Hus Group — — 150 — TOTAL 150 LIABILITIES Companies within the Akademiska Hus Group — — 2,151 2,153 TOTAL 0 0 2,151 2,153 37 Events after the year-end By the end of January the spread of Covid-19 accelerated globally. For this reason the Company’s crisis management unit has taken action. Continous planning and evaluations are taking place in order to manage responses. At present, the assessment is that the financial implications of Covid-19 is limited due to the Company’s operations. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Certification The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the endorsed by the EU, and provide a fair picture of the Group’s Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a fair picture of position and results and that the Administration Report for the the Company’s position and results and that the AdministraGroup provides a fair overview of the development of the tion Report provides a fair overview of the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and describes material Group’s operations, position and results and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the companies that form part of risks and uncertainties facing the Company. the Group. The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that The Sustainability Report for 2019 has been approved for the Consolidated Accounts have been prepared in accordance publication by the Board of Directors and the CEO. Gothenburg, 17 March 2020 Anitra Steen Britta Burreau Peter Gudmundson Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Anna Magnusson Employee representative Employee representative Board member Christer Nerlich Örjan Wikforss Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President Our Audit Report was submitted on 17 March 2020. Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Ehrenborg Authorised Public Accountant AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor’s Report REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated fiBasis of Opinions nancial statements of Akademiska Hus AB for 2019, with the We conducted our audit in accordance with International exception of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51–59. Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the compastandards in Sweden. The auditors’ responsibility according to ny are included on pages 41–105 in this document. these standards is described in detail in the section Auditor’s In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Responsibility. We are independent of the Parent Company and accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in the Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountall material respects, the financial position of parent company ants in Sweden, and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responas of 31 December 2019 and its financial performance and cash sibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Acthat, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibcounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in ited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Araccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in ticle 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow within the EU. for the year then ended in accordance with International FiWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinion does not include the Corporate Governance Report found on pages 51–59. The statutory Administration Report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Company and the Group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the Parent Company's audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report Our audit approach bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to Emphasis and scope of the audit fraud. The Group’s operations comprise owning, developing and manWe tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform suffiaging properties for universities and other higher education incient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolistitutions, with a main focus on education and research. In dated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the Akademiska Hus’ operations it is, above all, the large impact on structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, the financial statements of the assessments and estimates and the industry in which the group operates. made by the Board and management that impact our risk assessment. In our opinion, the largest risk of misstatements in Materiality the Annual Report stems from the valuation of properties. In The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of maaddition to this, we have identified a number of other risks and teriality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance key areas which have impacted the financial statements. whether the financial statements are free from material misOur audit comprises the review of all significant properties statement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They and business processes for the financial reporting, including are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they rent process, purchase process, financing process and valuation could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deciprocess. sions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. We designed our audit by determining materiality and asBased on our professional judgement, we determined cersessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated tain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overfinancial statements. In particular, we considered where manall materiality for the financial statements as a whole (see the agement made subjective judgements; for example, in respect table below). These, together with qualitative considerations, of significant accounting estimates that involved making ashelped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, sumptions and considering future events that are inherently timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on management override of internal controls, including among the financial statements as a whole. other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of Materiality Basis for audit materiality • Overall materiality: 930 (930) million We chose total assets as a benchmark for our overall assessment • Special materiality: 200 (190) million of materiality of the financial statements as a whole, given that the value of the investment properties has a material impact Benchmark and significance on the Group's financial position and is a • Overall materiality: corresponding to 0.8% of the Group’s particularly important area for the audit. We also defined total assets. a specific materiality for the audit of results from property • Special materiality: corresponding to 5% the Group’s profit management, including the working capital-related balance before tax, excluding changes in value of investment properties sheet items. and financial instruments. Used as our starting point in the audit of items in the income statement and balance sheet related to property management AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report Key Audit Matters period. These matters were addressed in the context of our auKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our dit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current separate opinion on these matters. KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Measurement of investment properties Our audit has, among other areas, focused on the Company’s internal We refer to the Administration Report and the description of the Akadecontrol and quality control concerning measurements made as of the miska Hus Group’s summary of significant General Accounting policies, 31 December 2019. The audit team, including our evaluation specialists, Note 2, and Properties (Group) Note 12. has collected and reviewed a sample of the evaluation reports in order to As of the 31 December 2019, the value of the investment properties assess the cash flow evaluation applied by Akademiska Hus, the mathewas SEK 91.4 billion. The investment properties comprise a significant matical correctness and the reasonability of assessment made. part of the balance sheet, and the measurement of the investment properties are, by their nature, subjective and subject to management’s Our audit has, among other task, included the following audit procedures assessments of, for example, the specific property’s location, condition • Checked that the measurements are in accordance with Akademiska and future rent income. Hus’ guidelines and instructions for property valuation. Fair value of the Group’s property portfolio is based on internal cal• Reviewed, by samples, significant controls in the Group’s internal culations, mainly by applying measurement of cash flows. For a minor valuation process. part of the property portfolio, the location price method is used or, alterna• Sampled the mathematical calculations of the model. tively, measure­ment at cost. In order to the ensure the quality of the • Assessed input through sampled follow-up against historical internal measurements, external measurements have been collected as outcomes and compared with accessible market data. well for approximately 30% of the value of the property portfolio. • We have had meeting with management to discuss significant When determining the fair value of the properties, consideration is assessments and evaluations. taken to current information, such as current rent agreements, assessment • Sampled input in the calculation models against information of rent levels and operating costs. In order to arrive at the final valuations, in relevant systems. the Company uses assessments and make estimates about future returns, • Taken part of the external valuations and compared these to net operating costs and assessed market rent, which are impcated by curthe internal calculations. rent requirements of direct yield and comparable market transactions. The significance of the assessment and estimates that are included in Our work has been focused on the largest investment properties, the the determination of the fair value is significant, together with the fact most significant assessments and the properties where values have varthat the amounts are significant, make the measurement of investment ied most compared to last year. In the cases where assessments of future properties to a key audit matter. operating costs net, occupancy grade and requirements of returns have deviated from our initial expectations, these deviations have been discussed with representatives of the Group and, when needed, complementing documentation has been collected. Finally, we have certified that the models used, that the assessments and sensibility analyses made by Akademiska Hus, are described correctly in Note 12. The values are based on assessments and are inherently subject to inherent uncertainty. Based on our review, our assessment is that the assumptions used by Akademiska Hus are within an acceptable range. As a result of our review, we have not reported any material observations to the Audit Committee. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report Other information than the annual accounts The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board and consolidated accounts of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other This document also contains other information than the annual things oversee the Company’s financial reporting process. accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–40 and 111–129. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director Auditors’ responsibility are responsible for this other information. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are does not cover this other information, and we do not express any free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. ReaIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and sonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarconsolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and mation identified above and consider whether the information is generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoli­ detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, inknowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether dividually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis If we, based on the work performed concerning this inforof these annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. mation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this A further description of our responsibility for the audit of other information, we are required to report that fact. We have the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on nothing to report in this regard. Revisorsinspektionens’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar Responsibilities of the Board of Directors This description is a part of the Auditors’ Report. and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and Opinions the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the Chief In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidatExecutive Officer are also responsible for such internal control as ed accounts, we have also audited the administration of the they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Akademiska accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material Hus AB for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the Company’s profit or loss. In preparing the annual accounts and the consolidated fiWe recommend that the meeting of the General Meeting alnancial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing locate the profit in accordance with the proposal in the AdminDirector are responsible for the assessment of the Company’s istration Report and grant the members of the Board and the ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, Managing Director discharge from liability for the financial year. matters related to going concern and application of the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accountBasis of Opinions ing is, however, not applied if the Board of Directors intends to We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted liquidate the Company, to cease operations, or has no realistic auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those alternative but to do so. standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report section. We are independent of the Parent Company and the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always in accordance with these requirements. detect acts and omissions which can give rise to liability to the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiCompany, or that the proposed allocation of earnings or loss is cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors administration can be found on the web page of The Swedish and the Managing Director Inspectorate of Auditors (Revisorsinspektionen): The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for apwww.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. propriations of the Company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a This description is a part of the Auditors’ Report. dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the Company's The auditor’s examination of the and the Group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the corporate governance report size of the parent company's and the group’s equity, consolidation The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate requirements, liquidity and position in general. governance statement on pages 51–59 has been prepared in The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s oraccordance with the Annual Accounts Act. ganization and the administration of the company’s affairs. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is This includes among other things continuous assessment of the conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 Company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statethe company's organization is designed so that the accounting, ment. This means that our examination of the corporate govmanagement of assets and the company’s financial affairs other­ ernance statement is different and substantially less in scope wise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing than an audit conducted in accordance with International Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standthe Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among ards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfil the us with sufficient basis for our opinions. company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the A corporate governance report has been prepared. Disclosures management of assets in a reassuring manner. in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 Auditors’ responsibility the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, 113 97 Stockholm, was appointed whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing auditor of Akademiska Hus AB by the general meeting of the Director in any material respect: shareholders on the 29 April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 27 April 2018. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the Company; • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Stockholm, 17 March 2020 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Our goal with the audit of the proposal of allocation of the Company’s profit or loss, and therefore our opinion thereof is Helena Ehrenborg to, with reasonable assurance assess whether the proposal is in Authorised Public Accountant accordance with the Companies Act. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 110 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes ABOUT AKADEMISKA HUS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Sustainability Report of Akademiska Hus follows the financial The Annual Report is Akademiska Hus’ sustainability report and follows year, is published annually and covers the entire Group, see note 1. The the guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. As of Sustainability Report includes pages 6–7, 12–39, 47–50 and 111–123 and 2018, the report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards at also includes Akademiska Hus’ statutory sustainability reporting in the Core level. Akademiska Hus aims to fully integrate sustainability into accordance with chapter 6 of the Annual Accounts Act. Akademiska Hus’ its regular operations, for which reason the description for the most part external auditors examined the information and the Auditor’s Limited is incorporated into the regular structure of the Annual Report. For Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report and statement regarding increased transparency and clarity, information about boundaries, the Statutory Sustainability Report are presented on page 124. The previresponsibilities, follow up and governance is provided for each sustainaous Annual Report was published on 22 March 2019. bility aspect in the sustainability notes on page 115. No significant changes occurred in the organisation or in our supply Since 2013 Akademiska Hus has supported the UN Global Compact chain in 2019, but Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio has changed and thus takes a stand and accepts responsibility for the ten principles somewhat due to sales, acquisition and completion of new buildings/prorelating to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corjects. The changes do not significantly affect the sustainability report, but ruption issues, which comprise the base of the Global Compact’s mission. need to be considered when comparing energy consumption and other The report serves as our Communication on Progress and is an account emissions. In 2018 Akademiska Hus began to calculate the climate of our support linked to both the ten principles of the Global Compact impact of construction projects and in 2019 two new construction proand the UN’s 17 global sustainability goals. jects were completed where climate impacts have been calculated and that are now included in GRI 305-3. No other significant changes in the scope or boundaries of GRI reporting have been made from previous years and relevant boundaries are described under each sub-area. CONTACT Mia Edofsson, Sustainability Manager mia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 111 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Stakeholder dialogue – formats and key issues We want to be sure that we address the right issues and perand business communities, our owner and financial participaspectives in our long-term work. We therefore engage in a varitors as the most important stakeholder groups. ety of ways to promote a positive and productive dialogue with The table below describes the various groups with which we our stakeholders. Our stakeholders are participants who are inregularly engage in dialogue, the formats of the meetings and fluenced by, or who influence, our operations and we view custhe areas within which they expect us to focus. tomers, students and researchers, employees, suppliers, local STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ACTIVITIES AREAS OF INTEREST CUSTOMERS (and their • Meetings with various executives • Provide attractive knowledge environments and campuses employees) • Development of campus plans that enable the customer to compete in national and • Customer satisfaction surveys international arenas • Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustainability efforts through a proactive approach and high resource efficiency • Contribute to increased construction of student housing • Develop and provide new services and benefits within property management • Be clear about the organisation, governance, business model and rent setting at Akademiska Hus • Collaboration in personal safety and IT UNDERGRADUATE AND • Interviews and meetings on campus • Resource conservation on campus GRADUATE STUDENTS • Development of smart digital solutions • Efficient environments, both indoors and outdoors • Social well-being through open and accessible campuses • Opportunity for collaboration and dialogue • More student housing EMPLOYEES • Performance reviews and goal-setting process • Attractive employer offering market-based working conditions • Safe and healthy working environment • Good opportunities for skills development • Each person should understand their role in the operation SUPPLIERS • Meetings related to procurement of framework • Clear, relevant procurement terms and conditions contracts and orders, as well as supplier meetings • Clear and ambitious requirements for the environment, • Start-up meetings health and safety, quality and social responsibility • Audits • Relationships that benefit both parties • Expectation of follow-up and feedback LOCAL AND BUSINESS • Regional and city-wide planning and development • Be active in the dialogue on community/regional COMMUNITIES meetings development • Meetings to discuss establishment plans • Create opportunities to include businesses on campus • Meetings with and participation in association • Contribute to increased construction of student housing and industry organisations • Be an active participant in innovation-driven development • Be socially sustainable – a good community participant OWNER • Annual strategy seminar • Contribute to the Government’s objective of reinforcing • Meetings with a focus on corporate governance Sweden as a nation of knowledge • Board meetings • Increased customer benefit through collaboration with centres of education • Serve as a role model in sustainable business practices • High resource efficiency • Contribute to increased construction of student housing LENDERS, BANKS AND • Meetings in conjunction with financial reports • Lenders, banks and credit rating agencies CREDIT RATING AGENCIES • Meetings in conjunction with financial reports • Long-term capital structure • Professional risk exposure management • Stable, long-term and sustainable operations with profitability and yield in accordance with objectives • Clear financial communication • Presence on market for green bonds AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 112 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES OUR ESSENTIAL AREAS To identify the issues that are most important for value creation at RESOURCE EFFICIENCY FOR REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT Akademiska Hus, a materiality analysis is conducted in which the ComWe use the assets at our disposal and the resources we consume more pany creates in an aggregate picture of the situation in the outside world, efficiently to reduce the burden on the environment. Collaboration on the role of the Company in the market, our impact on the environment, innovations is crucial and builds a high development capacity. stakeholder expectations and other factors. The analysis is updated annually with the latest information available to keep it up to date and RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS relevant. In 2018 a comprehensive external analysis was conducted in We strive to achieve high transparency in our customer relationships to conjunction to the formulation of the company’s new strategy, which create understanding of our role and our mission, and we set clear produced important insights regarding changes in society that both requirements for high ethical standards that both we and our suppliers clearly and quickly affect our industry and operations. must meet, so that together we can contribute to a sustainable society. Another external factor that affected operations at Akademiska Hus is the international community’s aggregate picture of current sustainaVALUE-ADDING KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS bility challenges. Akademiska Hus’ governance and sustainability initiaWith climate-smart and innovative investments in our campuses and a tives are therefore well founded in the ten principles of the Global Comviable commercial approach we create long-term benefit for both stakepact and our value creation rests on the UN’s Global Sustainable holders and the environment. We also focus heavily on the social perDevelopment Goals. Our business plan contains targets and activities spectives of well-being and accessibility. that are clearly linked to the Global Goals and associated targets considered to be most relevant for Akademiska Hus, thereby ensuring that we CARING FOR PEOPLE contribute to the Global Goals through our daily work. By working proactively for a healthy and safe work environment for both Using stakeholder dialogues as a point of departure, we have identiemployees and customers, as well as suppliers, we improve the industry fied four topics that we consider to be particularly important for our susand strengthen our relationship with our stakeholders. tainability efforts and thus our value creation. The matrix on page 115 describes the strategic impact and relevance of each area in our operation, as well as sustainability governance for each of them. UN Global Objectives PRIORITISED GOALS Prioritised targets Akademiska Hus contributes through 4. QUALITY EDUCATION FOR EVERYONE To ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 4.A Create inclusive and safe educational environments • Consideration is given to accessibility and “differences” when designing and Build and improve educational environments that are adapted for children and planning buildings and campuses. people with disabilities, and that take into account gender equality aspects and • Research collaboration on evidence linked to new learning environments thus offer a safe, peaceful, inclusive and appropriate learning environment for • Focus on varied apartment design in student housing that promotes housing everyone. at different stages of life. 5. GENDER EQUALITY Achieve equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. 5.5 Ensure full participation for women in leadership and decision-making • Active work with equal treatment within Akademiska Hus through the Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for “Equally Unique” plan. leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. 7. SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FOR EVERYONE Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. 7.2 Increase the share of renewable energy in the world • Goals and activities to achieve climate neutral property operations and By 2030, substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the global internal operations, which includes investments in renewable energy. energy mix. 7.A Enhance access to clean energy research and technology • Innovation partnerships with customers and other parties related to By 2030, enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy renewable solutions for energy production and systems. research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 113 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES PRIORITISED GOALS Prioritised targets Akademiska Hus contributes through 8. DECENT WORKING CONDITIONS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent working conditions for all. 8.2 Promote economic productivity through diversification, • Active work with energy plans and technological upgrading. technological upgrading and innovation • Innovation partnerships with customers and other parties related Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, to technological upgrading and increased efficiency. technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors. 8.4 Improve resource efficiency in consumption and production • Goals to achieve climate-neutral project operations and activities to comply Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption with Fossil Fuel-Free Sweden’s Roadmap to 2045. and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environ• “Co-Living” – an innovation project based on various types of shared living mental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes arrangements. on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure • Proactive involvement in and founder of the industry organisation working environments for all “Håll Nollan”, which promotes stronger requirements for safe workplaces. Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for • Work environment dialogues are conducted regularly in our property all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those management areas. in precarious employment. 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. 11.1 Safe and affordable housing • Goal regarding number of student housing units created. By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and • Focus on affordable student housing situation through reasonable basic services and upgrade slums. monthly rent and plan for sustainable daily life. 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable urbanisation. • Environmental certification of all new construction (Gold) and major By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanisation and capacity for renovation projects (at least Silver). participatory, integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and • Method for campus plans with strong focus on participation through management in all countries. an array of stakeholders. • Climate change resilience is taken into account when investing. 11.4 Protect the world’s cultural and natural heritage • Method for campus plans, including ecosystem services and control Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural of protected cultural and natural heritage sites. heritage. 11.7 Create safe and inclusive green spaces for all • Method for campus plans, including green spaces and their role in the urban By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and environment. public spaces, in particular for women and children, older persons and persons • Participant in Vinnova project “Restorative workplaces” with focus on showwith disabilities. ing the importance of green environments for well-being and performance. 12. SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 12.2 Sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources • Goal regarding energy reduction and systematic work with operational By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural optimisation throughout our property holdings. resources. • Develop business models for efficiency improvements in premises through, for example, digitalisation of properties. 12.4 Sound management of chemicals and wastes • Control and requirements for chemicals included as part of the quality By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and work linked to Miljöbyggnad certification of buildings. all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international • Chemicals used in operations are registered and monitored in the frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order Byggvarubedömning system. to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation • Akademiska Hus is a participant in the innovation project “Återvinning i Väst” By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, (Recycling in Western Sweden), which is run by IVL to build knowledge and recycling and reuse. create methods to increase the prospects for reuse. 12.7 Promote sustainable public procurement practices • Participation in industry-wide groups with goals to formulate requirements Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with and standards for sustainable procurement, in areas such as demolition national policies and priorities. and construction equipment. 17. ADOPTION AND GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP • Initiator and partner in an array of collaborative projects with a focus Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global on sustainable development together with customers, researchers, partnership for sustainable development. industry colleagues and other parties. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 114 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY NOTES NOTES SUSTAINABILITY Value-adding knowledge Resource efficiency for GOVERNANCE environments reduced climate impact Caring for people Responsible relationships GRI STANDARDS –G  RI 201: Economic – GRI 302 (CRE-1): Energy – GRI 403: Occupational Health – GRI 205: Anti-corruption Performance – GRI 305 (CRE-3): Emissions and safety – GRI 308 and 414: Supplier –G  RI 203: Indirect – GRI 307: Environmental – GRI 405: Diversity and equal Environmental Assessment r economic impacts compliance opportunity egarding the environment and – CRE 8: Product responsibility social criteria WHY THE TOPIC IS By creating value-adding, sustainOur operations have an impact The key to success, development As a major client in an industry IMPORTANT TO US able and inclusive knowledge on the environment, but by and profitability is our employees. known for corruption and human environments, we can contribute increasing resource efficiency It is therefore important that ever­ rights violations, we have a repositively to the social economy, and working according to the yone in our premises experiences sponsibility to build responsible the environment and the people precautionary principle, we can rewell-being and job satisfaction. relationships with high ethical who use our environments. duce our impact. The principle is Our operations, with both constandards and a strong moral applied when choosing materials struction projects and property compass. and planning projects to prevent operations, are associated with damage to the environment and risk relating to occupational injuries to people. health and safety. RESPONSIBILITY AND IMPACT Our responsibility is to meet the Our responsibility is to be resource We are formally responsible for Our responsibility is to set clear GRI 103-1 ON THE VALUE CHAIN need for knowledge environments efficient in our operations, while our employees. We are committed requirements. Suppliers and enfrom customers, students and making demands on suppliers of to achieving the goal of zero octrepreneurs have a major responresearchers. energy and materials. cupational injuries for everyone in sibility to comply with them. Impact occurs in conjunction Impact occurs in conjunction our premises or whom we hire. Impact occurs in conjunction with construction, purchasing, with construction, purchasing, This impact affects the workwith construction, purchasing, property management and develproperty management and develday of our employees during property management and development. opment. construction, management, and opment. purchasing. BOUNDARIES IN REPORTING We develop knowledge environWe focus on the entire operation, Reporting mainly occurs regarding The boundary was set to include ments and campuses primarily from planning and implemenour own employees with additionour employees, as well as first-line together with our customers, but tation of construction projects al information for suppliers where contacts regarding our other stakeholder groups are also to the ongoing management of such information is available. We suppliers. involved in the processes. properties and campuses. do not report on customers and users. HOW WE WORK We develop campus plans that We promote resource-efficient See specific governance in the Our process includes “shall” criare long-term and take into acuse of materials and energy, but Sustainability notes (403: 1–7) teria for suppliers when signing count current and future needs, also efficient use of premises. and information in the employee contracts and randomly following through dialogue with customers section on pages 38–39. up on them. and other stakeholders. WE WANT TO ACHIEVE The goal is to create value-adding The goal is to reduce climate We want to create a healthy and The goal is to achieve a high THE FOLLOWING knowledge environments that impact by reducing resource risk-free workplace that inspires standard of ethics in procurehelp to make the centres of consumption and through effipeople to grow and contribute. ment, to monitor compliance education more attractive and cient use of those resources. with these standards, and to build strengthen Sweden as a nation responsible and account­able of knowledge. relationships. • POLICIES1 – Process method for Campus – Sustainability policy – Equality and diversity plan – Code of Conduct, internal development, with a focus on – Energy guidelines – Sustainability policy and for suppliers sustainability – Travel guidelines – Anti-bullying guidelines – Procurement policy – Purchasing procedures GRI 103-2 • COMMITMENTS IN ADDI– Campus plans and other – Member of Fossil Fuel-Free Swe– Work to promote stronger indus– We support the Global TION TO SWEDISH LAWS planning documents together den; signed two roadmaps try requirements through the Compact in its work with its AND GUIDELINES with customers – Certification of new buildings “Håll Nollan” initiative ten principles and the UN’s globand major renovation projects al sustainability goals according to Miljöbyggnad standards • GOALS1,2 – Customer Satisfaction Index – Energy reduction – Accident-free workplace (ELTAR) – Customer Satisfaction Index – Number of student residences – Number of environmentally – Performance index (AHPI): – Number of cases of corruption – Innovation in collaboration certified buildings – Number/percentage of supplier – Climate neutrality controls • SPECIAL PROCESSES, – Process method for Campus – Climate calculations in projects – Reporting in the IA system for – Whistle-blower system, PROJECTS, PROGRAMMES development – System and material selection incidents and accidents internal and external AND INITIATIVES1 – Citylab studies – Reporting of “Sick and healthy” – Training video business ethics – Environment and Work environ– Environmental building – Assignment appraisal ment – management system certifications – Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Management Systems EVALUATION OF CONTROL – Analysis of Customer – Annual carbon footprint – Annual audits (internal, – Ethics Council Satisfaction Index (pages 14–15) (page 15) external, pages 22, 36) – Supplier Assessments GRI 103-3 – Environmental and Occupational – Analysis of Performance index (pages 35, 36) Safety and Health Management (AHPI) Systems followed up through Management review Read more about the division of responsibilities and control mechanisms in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51–59. 1) All Akademiska Hus’ properties and units are included. 2) Read more about targets and outcomes on pages 14 –15. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 115 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION GRI 302-1: Energy Consumption within the organisation In this section we describe the methods, assumptions and conversion All energy is measured and includes energy consumption by tenants. factors used to develop Akademiska Hus’s GRI indicators. In addition, supplementary tables and information are presented for the annual MWh¹ 2019 2018 2017 report, as well as a description of omitted information. Total energy consumption (non-renewable energy) 34,977 38,192 48,773 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Financial accountability for our operations along with sound and stable Total energy consumption (renewable energy) 729,057 755,615 730,842 finances are fundamental if we are to succeed with the mandate from our Total electricity 382,280 384,370 381,601 owner. Accepting financial responsibility is also crucial for a long-term – including energy charges passed on to tenant 253,313 258,652 270,936 approach and meeting the expectations of our customers and other Total heating 298,058 307,876 307,389 stakeholders. Financial accountability is important in all four of our areas of focus, but it is absolutely crucial in “Value-adding knowledge – including energy charges passed on to tenant 71,350 80,043 83,718 environments” and “Responsible relationships”. Total cooling 77,854 86,662 74,103 – including energy charges passed on to tenant 70,622 76,504 64,188 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Total steam 5,842 14,899 16,523 SEK 1,000 2019 2018 2017 – including energy charges passed on to tenant 5,354 7,570 9,586 DIRECT VALUE GENERATED Income 6,217 6,117 5,806 1) Fuel types are presented under indicators 305-1 and 305-2. ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED During the year the property holdings have increased and with a larger holding the need for energy increases. In spite of this, energy consumpPayments to suppliers¹ ) -1,717 -1,730 -1,571 tion has fallen 3.8 per cent which can be attributed to the Company’s sysEmployee wages and benefits -295 -279 -249 tematic and offensive energy initiatives. Renewable or recovered energy Fees and remuneration to currently account for 96 per cent of energy consumption. Recovered the Board and President -13 -11 -12 energy refers to the proportion stated in the district heating suppliers’ Social security costs -141 -149 -125 production mixes; for example, heat from waste incineration and waste heat from industry. Tax²) -431 -403 -476 Interest paid to lenders, net -966 -719 -532 GRI CRE-1 Energy intensity Dividend to shareholder -1,663 -1,630 -1,393 kWh/sq m 2019 2018 2017 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 991 1,196 1,448 Energy intensity = Energy consumption per square metre 192.4 201.6 200.8 1) Operating costs, property administration, other property management expenses and central administration Energy intensity has decreased by 4.6 per cent, primarily for the activi2) Current tax, property tax and site leasehold fees ties listed under 302-1. Energy consumption also includes energy consumption by tenants. Usable floor area (UFA) is used in the calculation ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY and is a time-weighted value. Large quantities of materials are used in new construction, renovations and tenant adoptation of our properties. The materials used impact the GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption environment both when they are produced and when they are trans2019 2018 2017 ported. It is therefore important to reduce the quantity of material used Total reduction (MWh) 29,772 -14,191 4,383 and to aim to reduce the climate impact of the materials we choose. We also need to ensure that materials that are used do not contain hazardInvested, SEK 168,269,193 126,996,023 186,360,175 ous substances that are spread indoors or to ecosystems. The topic of environmental responsibility is primarily reflected in our focus on Energy investments increased in 2019, which is attributable to an “Resource efficiency for reduced climate impact”. increased focus on implementation of energy measures to accelerate our efforts toward achieving our energy and climate targets. Energy investEnergy consumption ments refer to installation measures, including replacement of heat Akademiska Hus’ energy consumption as reported below is based on the recovery batteries, fans, pumps, lighting, installation of heat pumps and system limit delivered energy, for which reason energy from solar panels, climate scale measures such as window changes and additional geothermal energy, etc., are not included in the Company’s combined insulation. energy consumption or when assessing climate impact. Akademiska Hus invests heavily in increasing capacity for renewable Greenhouse gas emissions energy in the form of solar panels, which reduces the need for delivered Akademiska Hus’ main greenhouse gas emissions occur through indirect energy while also helping to reduce the carbon footprint. emissions attributable to the purchase of electricity, heating, cooling and steam (scope 2), as well as indirect emissions primarily from construction projects (scope 3). Direct emissions (scope 1) are minimal in our MWh 2019 2018 2017 operations but are reported to give the overall picture of our total cliOwn electricity generation from renewables mate impact for the long term. – Solar power 3,873 2,057 1,228 The production capacity of electricity through solar panels has increased by 88 per cent compared with 2018 and 215 per cent compared with 2017. Production now corresponds with about 1 per cent of our total electricity consumption. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 116 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI 305-1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE In 2019, scope 1 emissions amounted to 86 tonnes of CO2e, attributable GRI 307-1: Environmental compliance to travel with personal or leased vehicles, as well as work-related travel Akademiska Hus uses an external web-based service where all current by private car. The carbon footprint from the leased vehicle fleet has laws and regulations are collected regarding the work environment and almost halved during the year, because of the Company’s strategy to environment. New or amended laws and regulations are continually move towards a fossil-free vehicle fleet. The research and incinerator updated in the system. Relevant changes are sent to managers in the plant that Akademiska Hus has at Chalmers University of Technology operation and are also addressed in the Health and Safety Committees, has only used biofuel during the year, for which reason it has no climate both locally and centrally. No fines or sanctions were imposed relating to impact. the environment in 2018. In 2019, systematic work environment management (SAM 2001:1) Tonnes CO₂e 2019 2018 2017 follow-up was implemented as an annual activity for our local health and safety committees. How employees perceive the organisational and Emissions furnace Chalmers 0 1.2 — social work environment (AFS 2015:4) is also followed up in conjunction Work-related travel with personal, with the annual Akademiska Hus performance index survey. leased and private vehicles 86 96 — In the Project unit, environmental and work environment items are entered in the project tool “Aka Projekt”, to be followed through the difFuel consumption within the organisation amounted to 3,354 MWh and is ferent phases of the project. based on purchased biogas. The emission factor for biogas is 0 g CO2/kWh. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI 305-2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Our operations are based on collaboration, within the organisation, with Emissions consist of CO2 from delivered electricity, heating, cooling and our customers and with other stakeholders. Strengthening Sweden as a steam and includes climat impact from tenant's energy consumption. nation of knowledge through value-adding knowledge environments CO2-calculations are based on input data provided by suppliers that is entails placing people at the centre and taking many different requiremarket based values, for 2018 (unless stated otherwise) and include ments into consideration. It also means that we work to create a working CO2e – in other words, the entire greenhouse effect. climate and a culture where equal treatment, equal opportunity, diversity, safety and security are a given, internally as well as externally. Social Tonnes CO₂e 2019 2018 2017 responsibility is important in all four of our areas of focus, but it is absoPurchased electricity, heating, lutely crucial in “Value-adding knowledge environments” and “Responcooling and steam 28,246 29,129 28,495 sible relationships”. All personnel data have been compiled as of 31 December 2019. CO2-emissions declined during the year by 3.0 per cent, mainly because the fuel mix offered by certain energy suppliers improved. WORKFORCE GRI 102-8: Workforce GRI 305-3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) As of 31 December 2019 Akademiska Hus had 503 (485) employees, of In 2018 Akademiska Hus began to calculate the climate impact of conwhom 486 (481) are permanently employed and the remainder are temstruction projects. In 2019, two new construction projects were comporary employees. In all, 15 employees within the organisation had partpleted – A Working Lab in Gothenburg and the Student Building in time contracts, including 8 men and 7 women. Akademiska Hus has no Linköping. The Company has set high targets for climate neutrality in its significant variations in the number of employees over the year. project operations by 2045 and climate calculations are an important step in this objective. The calculations are based on the life cycle stages Number of employees per unit and gender for Production (A1–3) and Transport (A4) and include, as a minimum, Number Women Men Total the requirements specified in the Miljöbyggnad certification system. If Staff 76 46 122 possible, the calculations are based on climate declarations (EPDs), but where these are unavailable, generic data have been used. Campus and Business Development 10 13 23 Property Management 54 241 295 2019 2018 2017 Projects 23 33 56 Construction projects AWL 1 2 3 A1–A3 – Materials in Student housing 3 1 4 construction projects 6,472 — — TOTAL 167 336 503 A4 – Transports to construction sites 586 — — Per cent 33 67 100 Total construction projects 7,058 — — In addition to employees, a large number of hired workers are engaged. The majority of them can are contractors, architects and construction Work-related travel engineering consultants. The scope of this group varies over time and it Air 258 263 205 is difficult to find reliable statistics for the number of people in this Train 0 0 0 group, for which reason it is excluded from the report. Rental car 10 9 8 GRI 102-41: Proportion of the workforce covered by collective Taxi 7 7 5 bargaining agreements Total work-related travel, scope 3 275 279 218 Collective agreements apply to all employees except those who belong to Total Scope 3 7,333 279 218 Executive Management. GRI 305-4 /CRE-3: Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions levels from Akademiska Hus properties was 7.1 kg of CO2 per square metre (7.0 kg CO2/m²). Emissions intensity is based on scope 2 as presented in 305-2 and the area in square metres used in the calculation is usable floor area (UFA). AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 117 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 405-1: Diversity in the Board of Directors, management and other employees based on age and gender Akademiska Hus’ management group consists of 6 (5) women and 5 (5) men. The Board of Directors is represented by 3 (3) women and 6 (6) men. The table below shows the distribution between men and women, broken down by activity and excluding management. In the company as a whole, Akademiska Hus has 31 per cent (32) women. The Management Unit is least equal in the company, with only 15 per cent (16) women. The most even gender distribution can be found in the Campus and Business Development unit. Gender distribution employees, excluding Executive Management Per cent/ Per cent Unit Gender unit total Number Staff Women 61 15 62 Men 39 9 39 Campus and Business Development Women 47 2 9 Men 53 2 10 Property Management Women 15 9 37 Men 85 50 212 Projects Women 40 5 21 Men 60 7 31 AWL Women 33 0 1 Men 67 0 2 Student housing Women 67 0 2 Men 33 0 1 AKADEMISKA HUS TOTAL Women 31 132 Men 69 295 Diversity within the organisation The table below shows the age and gender distribution among all employees, management and the Board of Directors: 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Composition of the company Number of women Number of women Number of men Number of men Total number Total number Board of Directors 1 Under 30 years — — — — — — 30–50 years 1 1 — — 1 1 Over 50 years 2 2 6 6 8 8 Executive Management Under 30 years — — — — — — 30–50 years 2 1 4 4 6 5 Over 50 years 4 4 1 1 5 5 Employees in managerial position2 Under 30 years 2 1 — 1 2 2 30–50 years 19 22 25 21 44 43 Over 50 years 8 8 11 14 19 22 Other employees Under 30 years 11 7 19 18 30 25 30–50 years 83 73 132 132 215 205 Over 50 years 38 37 144 141 182 178 1) Employee representatives are included in the statistics 2) Excluding Executive Management AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 118 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY and work-related ill health. Our Occupational Health Care contract GRI 403-1-7: Topic-specific management approach includes a dedicated rehab coordinator to provide optimal rehabilitation for health and safety support. The Occupational Health Care service is primarily intended to Occupational health and safety is a high priority at Akademiska Hus support managers with delegated occupational health and safety duties, where our objective is an accident-free and healthy workplace. We work but each employee also has the right to schedule an appointment with proactively through a structured approach to prevent risks and avoid the Occupational Health Care service to receive support and guidance on work-related accidents and ill health. Akademiska Hus is certified under issues concerning conditions at work. Our focus with the occupational the provisions on systematic work environment management (AFS health care service is to promote health and prevent illness in accord2001:1), which apply to our entire operation. ance with the intentions of the Swedish Work Environment Act. Our environmental and occupational safety and health management All employees have health insurance that provides access to several systems with policies, procedures and guidelines is available on our preventive health services such as eHealth services and counselling, intranet. The management system requirements apply to all employees available free of charge and around the clock. In order to enable employand hired workers. Occupational health and safety duties, for which the ees to take good care of their health, all employees are offered a work CEO has ultimate responsibility, are divided and documented in the environment and health analysis at regular intervals. organisation. The principle is that the manager who is responsible for Akademiska Hus wants to inspire and create opportunities for a personnel is responsible for systematic work environment managehealthy lifestyle. Each year our wellness group promotes a wellness ment-related duties. However, occupational health and safety duties are theme with various wellness activities that are carried out throughout also divided in the organisation associated with our responsibility as the Company. In 2019 the wellness theme was Balance. Through our colproperty developer and owner. Our local safety representatives have an laboration with ActiWay, each employee has access to an annual wellness important function in our systematic work environment management allowance of SEK 3,000. Through active work from our wellness group and that we will work together to improve the working environment at and simple administration of the wellness allowance, we have continuAkademiska Hus. ously improved the ratio of active individuals who have taken advantage Risk identification and risk elimination are the foundation of our sysof their wellness allowance and in 2019 80 per cent of employees use tematic work environment management. Risk assessments are carried some portion of their wellness allowance. out on different levels and in specific situations, such as the annual risk Akademiska Hus operations include many buildings and large land assessment in all departments, prior to calls/orders of construction-reareas all over Sweden. In order to achieve resource-efficient managelated services or with changes in the operation. ment, operation and construction, we need to cooperate with many difHandling of accidents and incidents is also included in our risk manferent suppliers. Collaboration on business terms is based on clear agement procedures. Both environmental and occupational health and requirements and expectations, as well as dialogue and follow up. By setsafety matters are reported and managed in our dedicated Incident and ting clear requirements for the work environment, we can contribute to Accident (IA) system. The system provides a structured approach to and promote sustainable development for the entire construction and investigate and rectify such events to prevent them from happening property industry. Our Code of Conduct for suppliers, clear specificaagain. Moreover, the system serves as a good source of data for statistics tions in procurement documents and instructions for suppliers are some and analyses. Safety representatives have the right to stop any work that examples of how we address these issues. Akademiska Hus is an initiator, is considered to be dangerous or that could be associated with a risk of co-founder and actively involved in the “Håll nollan” organisation, which injury or ill health. In our construction projects, incidents and accidents aims to achieve the goal of zero accidents in the construction industry. must also be reported in our system so that we can learn from the experiAs part of this initiative, during the year we helped to formulate a comence. As an employer, our contractor is formally responsible for investimon working method for property developers which we have now implegating and implementing corrective measures in the event of work injumented in our operations. The point of departure is to create clarity ries. However, our job is to see whether we can learn any lessons from regarding the activities we as property developers can influence with the the event in our capacity as property developer with responsibility for aim of creating good conditions for a safe work environment in our conthe early stages such as design and planning, as well as overarching construction projects. The Håll Nollan property developer training proditions for the project. gramme – the role of the property developer for a safe work environAt Akademiska Hus, employees have considerable influence over the ment, is also part of the initiative we helped to put in place, with the aim Company’s occupational health and safety initiatives and the safety repof providing knowledge on how we can take responsibility for our part of resentative has an important role. Influence is exercised through particisystematic work environment management as professional property pation in risk assessments, occupational health and safety committees, developers. During the year our management representatives also parthe wellness group, etc. At Akademiska Hus we have six local health and ticipated in Håll Nollan leadership training. We also actively participate safety committees and one central health and safety committee in which in the Property Developers’ work environment group association with both employer and employee representatives participate. During the the aim of encouraging property developers to accept their responsibilyear, we also held two-day work environment training programmes ity for the work environment. where managers and safety representatives work together to strengthen collaboration in systematic work environment management. GRI 403-8: Number of workers covered by an occupational Akademiska Hus has a cohesive contract with occupational healthhealth and safety management system care providers in the locations where Akademiska Hus has its employees. All employees at Akademiska Hus are covered by the requirements, Through dialogue and continual follow-up meetings, we ensure that the guidelines and procedures in our occupational health and safety manorganisation’s needs for support are met. The “Sick and Healthy” service agement system. The system complies with relevant laws and regulaprovides structure and support for management of reporting absence tions. Our management system is certified to AFS 2001:1 Systematic due to illness and reporting back to work after illness, as well as reportwork environment management. ing absence to take care of sick children. The service gives employees The management system also contains governing documents that access to professional healthcare advice and is available 24 hours a day, apply to our consultants, suppliers and contractors. Akademiska Hus every day of the year. In order to capture early signs of ill health with the aims to contribute to good health and safety for employees, contractors, possibility of introducing measures at an early stage, the “Sick and suppliers customers and end users. Healthy” service provides an indication of repeated short-term absence AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 119 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 2019 2018 2017 In our construction projects, nine work-related injuries with absence were reported for contractors during the year, corresponding to an acciOccupational health care service for own personnel, distribution of utilisation in % dent rate of 2.4, which from an industry perspective is considered to be low. The accident rate is defined as the number of workplace accidents – Promote 1 4 * that lead to absence on one or more contractual workdays per one mil– Prevent 79 65 * lion hours worked. Some under-reporting is likely and given that we – Rehabilitate 20 31 * only started recording this data in 2018, patience is required as we conPercentage of individuals using * tinually work to encourage people to report such information and to wellness allowance1 81.4 77.8 improve its quality. All construction projects are entered in our system, which permits reporting and setting clear requirements for contractors 1) Percentage of full-year employees who used some part of their wellness allowance to report information. Absenteeism due to illness remains at a stable low level at 3.8%. Our sickness absence reporting system provides an opportunity for early GRI 403-9, 10: Work-related injuries and health identification of employees who experience work-related ill health. Over During the year a total of 16 work-related injuries were reported for the course of the year, ten employees have stated that their absence is due Akademiska Hus personnel, including four vehicular accidents. Three to conditions at work. Here are those who suffered work-related injuries work-related injuries resulted in absence, one of which relates to a vehicwith absence as a result. In addition, there is ill health due to stress as ular accident. The accident rate is thereby 2.5. Based on reported inciwell as physical symptoms, for example in the neck and shoulders. dents and accidents, the most common cause of injury/risk involves We work continuously with health-promoting and preventive activibeing hit by flying or falling objects during tasks related to maintenance ties with the aim of preventing employees from suffering work-related and repairs. The most common types of injury resulting from the above injuries and ill-health. Akademiska Hus’ work environment goal of an are crush injuries or other soft tissue injury, closely followed by wounds. accident-free workplace is an important starting point for our systematic work environment management. Over the past few years, we have been working across the board with employees, safety representatives and 2019 2018 2017 managers to increase awareness of and knowledge about the work enviAkademiska Hus personnel ronment. For example we conducted several company-adapted work Number of work-related fatal accidents 0 0 0 environment training programmes for safety representatives and manNumber of work-related injuries 16 18 24 agers. These programmes are conducted jointly with managers and safety representatives to strengthen cooperation regarding and underNumber of work-related injuries * with absence 3 0 standing of these issues. To promote knowledge sharing, learning and collaboration, each year we invite all safety representatives to a safety Accident Rate (LTAR)1 2.5 0 * ombudsman day. Moreover, we have a current work environment theme Number of days of self-reported * for all employees in conjunction with the international work environwork-related sickness absence 10 5 ment day. In 2019, a training day was held for our Executive Management Total sickness absence in % 3.8 4.1 3.7 with a focus on both practical and strategic aspects of systematic work – Women 4.8 4.9 4.1 environment management. Risk assessments are an important cornerstone of our preventive systematic work environment management. – Men 3.3 3.8 3.5 During the year we improved awareness and methodological support in the organisation, especially with respect to considering work environContractors in construction projects ment risks in our development projects, as well as when implementing Number of work-related fatal accidents 0 0 0 changes. Another important cornerstone in our systematic work environment management is reporting and management of incidents and Number of work-related injuries * with absence 9 8 accidents. Ever since we implemented a new system, we have continually worked with our reporting culture, especially with respect to increasing Accident Rate (ELTAR)2 2.4 2.4 * the quality of investigations and measures for learning from and preventing injuries and ill-health. All employees also have access to an array * Basis not available due to transition to new reporting system (IA). of benefits and services offered to strengthen and support employees to 1) LTAR relates to the accident rate for own personnel, excluding vehicular accidents. address issues that could otherwise contribute to ill health. Examples The accident rate is defined as the number of workplace accidents that lead to include counselling, support for domestic violence, help desk for bullyabsence for more than one day (8 hours) per 1 million hours worked. Accidents for own ing, wellness allowance and access to a health portal with e-health employees are reported in the IA system. The number of hours worked was 800,697 for programmes. own employees in 2019, the data are obtained from our payroll system, Agda. 2) ELTAR relates to the accident rate for contractors in our construction projects, excluding vehicular accidents. The accident rate is defined as the number of workplace accidents that lead to absence for more than one day (8 hours) per 1 million hours worked. Accidents involving contractors are reported in our IA system. This reporting is not considered to be complete at this time, since all projects do not yet report into our system. Measurement and reporting are under development. The number of hours worked for contractors is based on our investment in new construction and redevelopment, with the assumption that 60% is the cost of labour at an hourly price of SEK 500 per hour. The number of hours worked was 3,677,347 for contractors in 2019. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 120 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index GRI index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page or Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Description reference Comment/Disclosed information principle ORGANISATION PROFILE GRI 102: 102-1 Organisation name Cover, 51 General standard disclosures, 2016 102-2 Important brands, products, and services 1, 30-31, 51 102-3 Location of headquarters 129 102-4 Location of operations 11 102-5 Ownership and legal form 51 102-6 Markets served 11, 20, 46 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3, 10–11, 62, 67, 117 102-8 Workforce 117 6 102-9 Supply chain 35–36 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 111 and its supply chain 102-11 Application of precautionary principle 111, 115 7 102-12 External initiatives on sustainability 115 that the organisation supports and/or by which it is covered 102-13 Membership of organisations Available on our website akademiskahus.se/en STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 102-14 Statements from decision-maker 6–7 1 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 18, 35, 50, 2, 6, 10 113–115 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 51–59 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 102-40 Stakeholder groups 30, 112 102-41 Proportion of the workforce covered 117 3 by collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identification and selection 112 of stakeholder groups 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 112 102-44 Stakeholder concerns and how 112–113 they are handled REPORTING PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the reporting 91, 111 102-46 Process for defining report content 18, 113 and topic boundaries 102-47 Identified material topics 18, 113 102-48 Restatements of information 111 102-49 Material changes 111 Reporting of climate impact of new construction projects is added (305-3). Work-related travel is reported in 305-1 and 305-3, including for the previous year. 102-50 Reporting period 111 102-51 Date of most recent report 111 102-52 Reporting cycle 111 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 111 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 111 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI index 121–123 102-56 External assurance 124 The Sustainability Report has been reviewed by auditors on behalf of the Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 121 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS Page or referGlobal Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Description ence Comment/Disclosed information principle ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated 116 Economic and distributed performance, 2016 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 203: 203-1 Investments in infrastructure and 11, 20-22, 25, Indirect economic services for public benefit 31 impacts, 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 205: 205-1 Percentage of operations assessed 49, 56–57 Anti-corruption, 2016 for risks related to corruption 205-3 Number of cases of corruption 56 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS ENERGY 8, 9 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Reporting is based on delivered Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation energy for all indicators under energy. approach 2016 103-3 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy Consumption within the 116-117 Energy, 2016 organisation CRE-1 Energy intensity 116 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 116 The report indicates change in energy consumption on a total level between 2018 and 2019, not by initiative. EMISSIONS 10 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 117 Emissions, 2016 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 117 305-3 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 32–33, 117 Climate impact from construction projects omitted due to the lack of information. CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 117 COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 307: 307-1 Compliance with environmental laws 117 Environmental and regulations compliance, 2016 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 8 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 308: 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers screened 35–36 Screening of new suppliusing environmental criteria ers using environmental criteria, 2016 AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 122 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS Page or Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Description reference Comment/Disclosed information principle OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 Topic-specific management approach for health and safety GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety 119 Health and safety, 2018 management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment 47, 119 and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 38, 119 403-4 Consultation and communication 38, 119 on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational 38, 119 health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 38, 119 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of 38, 119-120 occupational health and safety impacts Results occupational health and safety 403-8 Number of workers covered by an 119–120 occupational health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 120 Reporting concerning contractors is under development and therefore is incomplete. 403-10 Work-related ill health 120 Statistics only relate to own employees. We do not have access to statistics on hired personnel and contractors. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 6 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 118 Diversity and equal employees opportunity, 2016 ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS 10 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its 55–57, 115 Management 103-2, boundary, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 414: 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers screened 35–36 Screening new suppliers using social criteria using social criteria, 2016 INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES CRE: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 7, 8, 9, 10 CRE-8 Type and number of sustainability 34 certificates, ratings and scores for new construction OTHER Child labour, The Code of Conduct includes these 7, 8, 9, 10 Forced labour principles, but the areas are not identified as main risk areas within our operations. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 123 ASSURANCE REPORT Assurance Report Sustainability Report and Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report To Akademiska Hus AB (publ.), Corp. Id. 556459-9156 audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Introduction The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Akademiska Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Hus (publ.) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of system of quality control including documented policies and Akademiska Hus AB’s (publ.) Sustainability Report for the year procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 2019. The company has defined the scope of the Sustainability professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory reReport and the Statutory Sustainability Report on page 111 in quirements. We are independent in relation to Akademiska Hus this report. according to generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility accordResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing ing to these requirements. Director The procedures performed in a limited assurance engageThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responment and review according to RevR 12 do not allow us to obtain sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report including such assurance that we become aware of all significant matters the Statutory Sustainability Report, in accordance with the apthat could have been identified if an audit was performed. The plicable criteria, and the Annual Accounts Act respectively. The stated conclusion based on a limited assurance and review in criteria are defined on page 111 in the Sustainability Report, accordance with RevR 12, therefore, does not have the security and are parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines pubthat a stated conclusion based on an audit has. lished by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), which are applicaOur procedures are based on the criteria defined by the ble to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and Board of Directors and the Managing Director as described calculation principles that Akademiska Hus AB (publ.) has deabove. We consider these criteria as suitable for the preparaveloped. This responsibility also includes the internal control, tion of the Sustainability Report. which is deemed necessary to establish a Sustainability Report We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient that does not contain material misstatement, whether due to and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. fraud or error. Conclusion Responsibilities of the Auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainabilnothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that ity Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have the Sustainability Report is not, in all material respects, preperformed and to provide an opinion on the Statutory Sustainpared in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of ability Report. Directors and Managing Director. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordA Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. ance with ISAE3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Gothenburg, 17 March 2020 Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have conducted our review regarding the StatuÖhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB tory Sustainability Report in accordance with FAR's recommendation RevR 12, the Auditor's Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and a review according to RevR 12 have a different focus and a conHelena Ehrenborg Åsa Ekberg siderably smaller scope compared to the focus and scope of an Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 124 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 6 INCOME STATEMENTS, SEK m Property management income 6,217 6,117 5,806 5,666 5,646 Operating costs -891 -894 -785 -764 -771 Maintenance costs -619 -676 -615 -686 -618 Property administration -430 -372 -309 -294 -316 Net operating income 4,121 3,938 3,829 3,667 3,740 Central administration costs -70 -78 -67 -85 -72 Net interest income/expense -377 -268 -188 -308 -347 Earnings before changes in value and taxes 1 3,589 3,592 3,574 3,274 3,321 Change in value, properties 3,872 2,585 4,979 3,682 2,655 Change in value, financial instruments -503 -360 -242 -241 165 Profit before tax 6,957 5,818 8,311 6,714 6,141 Profit for the year 5,658 5,314 6,453 5,148 4,780 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, SEK m Fair value, properties 91,424 85,865 80,444 73,013 66,575 Other assets 13,562 7,612 10,113 9,417 7,858 Equity 46,760 42,832 39,186 34,152 30,271 Interest-bearing liabilities 1 40,992 35,081 37,051 35,627 30,831 Other liabilities and provisions 17,234 15,564 14,320 12,651 13,331 CASH FLOW, SEK m Cash flow from current operations 3,519 2,998 2,121 2,721 2,485 Cash flow from investing activities -1,685 -2,991 -2,341 -2,548 -2,204 Cash flow before financing 1,834 7 -220 172 281 Cash flow from financing activities -801 -3,183 1,330 893 -534 Cash flow for the year 1,033 -3,176 1,110 1,065 -253 PROPERTY-RELATED KEY FIGURES Total yield, properties, % 7 9.5 8.5 12.5 11.4 11.0 of which direct yield, % 2, 7 4.9 5.1 5.5 5.7 6.4 of which change in value, % 3 4.7 3.4 7.0 5.7 4.6 Rental revenue, SEK/m² 1,820 1,791 1,715 1,697 1,710 Operating costs, SEK/m² 268 270 241 237 242 Maintenace costs, SEK/m² 186 204 189 212 194 Net operating income in relation to property management income, % 7 65 64 66 65 66 Net operating income, SEK/m² 7 1,214 1,190 1,176 1,135 1,174 Level of vacant space, area, % 3.8 5.2 4.2 3.9 3.8 Level of vacant space, rent, % 2.2 1.7 1.0 0.9 1.1 Fair value, properties, SEK/m² 4 25,736 24,173 22,476 20,638 19,238 Energy use, kWh/m² 192 201 201 204 212 CO₂, kg/m² 7 7 9 8 8 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Return on equity after standard tax, % 12.2 11.2 17.6 16.3 15.0 Return on operating capital, % 5, 7 10.3 5.5 5.9 6.2 6.9 Return on total assets, % 7 7.5 6.6 10.1 10.8 10.7 Net debt, SEK m 32,902 30,416 27,976 26,962 23,924 Equity ratio, % 7 45.7 45.8 43.3 41.4 40.7 Interest coverage ratio, % 7 665 736 871 694 743 Financing cost, % 2.6 2.3 1.8 2.2 1.2 Loan-to-value ratio, % 36.0 35.4 34.3 37.0 35.9 Internal financing level, % 172.7 115 137 84 132 Ordinary dividend, SEK m — 1,663 1,630 1,393 1,290 PERSONNEL Average number of employees 490 480 449 440 409 1) Values for 2019 include site leasehold fees. 5) The owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, should be at least 6.0 2) Excluding properties under construction and expansion reserves. per cent over a business cycle. 3) Change in value in relation to average value of properties, excluding properties under 6) 2015 figures have been adjusted to facilitate comparison. The reason is the change in construction and expansion reserves. accounting of tenant improvements. In addition, the distribution between property 4) Excluding the value of properties under construction and expansion reserves. administration costs and central administration has changed. 7) Values for 2019 exclude the accounting effects of IFRS 16. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 125 KEY FIGURES Key figures ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Total financing cost including changes in value In accordance with European Securities and Markets Authority Net interest excluding capitalised interest expense and the guidelines (ESMA) on reporting of alternative performance change in value of financial derivatives, in relation to average measures, the definition and reconciliation of alternative perinterest-bearing capital. (See the table on page 127). formance measures for Akademiska Hus are presented here. The guidelines entail additional disclosures regarding financial Interest coverage ratio measures that are not defined in IFRS. The performance measNet operating income with reversal of site leasehold fees and ures presented below are reported in the interim report. They the addition of central administration costs in relation to net fiare used for internal governance and follow-up and are generalnancial income/expense excluding site leasehold fees, including ly accepted in the property industry. Owner objectives have period allocation of realised profits from derivatives and inalso been set for return on operating capital and the equity racluding capitalised interest in projects. The interest coverage tio. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the ratio is a financial measure that shows how many times the same way, these are not always comparable to measures used Company is able to pay its interest with adjusted earnings beby other companies. fore financial items. Return on equity Period-allocated financing cost Profit before tax less the standard tax (according to the current Net interest income and expense in the form of the financing tax rate) in relation to average equity (OB+CB)/2. cost for loans, net interest for financial derivatives and period allocation of realised profits on financial derivatives over the Return on operating capital remaining term of the underlying instrument, in relation to avProfit before tax excluding the changes in the value of financial erage interest-bearing capital. (See table below.) instruments and net interest income/expense in relation to average operating capital. 1 Jan. 2019– 1 Jan. 2018– SEK m 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Return on total assets Net interest income/expense -343 -278 Earnings before appropriations and taxes excluding financial Net interest derivatives -46 -27 expenses in relation to average equity and liabilities, excluding Other interest costs -74 -55 liability for leasehold rights (IB+UB)/2. Capitalised interest expense, projects 86 92 Total net interest income/expense -377 -268 Loan-to-value ratio Change in value, independent financial derivatives Net loan liability in relation to the closing value of properties. – unrealised -263 -160 Yield – realised -339 -39 Net operating income with reversal of site leasehold fees in reChanges in value, fair value hedges 98 -160 lation to average fair value excluding buildings under construcTotal changes in value -503 -360 tion and expansion reserves. This performance measure shows the return from operaSite leasehold fees -84 — tions in relation to the value of the properties. Reported net interest income and expense -965 -628 Net operating income ratio Net operating income with reversal of site leasehold fees in reAverage interest-bearing capital (full-year basis) -32,805 -31,688 lation to property management income. The net operating income ratio shows how much the Company gets to keep from each krona earned from business operations. It is a type of efficiency measure that is comparable over time. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 126 KEY FIGURES Internal financing ratio Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital in relation to net investments. Net investments Closing balance minus the opening balance for non-current assets plus depreciation and impairments minus revaluations. Net debt All loans are included in gross loan debt. Net loan liability includes some current receivables, cash and cash equivalents and security transfers for derivatives. Pension provisions and similar items are not included. 1 Jan. 2019– 1 Jan. 2018– SEK m 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Gross debt -34,948 -33,521 Assets Collateral for derivatives, net -2,568 -891 Cash and cash equivalents 4,337 3,304 Other current receivables 277 692 Total net debt -32,902 -30,416 Operating capital Equity plus interest-bearing net loan liability. Equity ratio Equity in relation to total assets excluding site leasehold rights at the end of the period. Total yield Direct yield from properties and their change in value, expressed in per cent. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 127 DEFINITIONS Definitions Operating costs Operating costs are costs incurred to keep a property, installation or similar facility functioning. Operating costs are divided into media provision, supervision and service. Property administration Cost of management, day-to-day accounting administration, leasing, contact with tenants, handling of registers, contracts and drawings, technical planning and follow-up and human resource administration. Rental revenue The basic rent, index-linked, and estimated rent for vacant rentable floor space and supplements, with a deduction for vacant space and rent reductions. Comparable portfolio Property holdings excluding properties that have been acquired or sold, or have been classified as projects during the period or the comparison period. Floor space, m², GFS Gross floor space of building. Comprises rentable floor space as well as common areas and the areas surrounding the building. Floor space, m² Rentable floor space in square metres. Maintenance costs Costs for measures taken aimed at reinstating the original standard and function of worn or damaged parts of a building. Costs for tenant adaptations are also recognised here. Rental and vacancy levels Leased or vacant floor space in relation to the total floor space. Financial leasing or vacant space levels are rental revenue for space leased and estimated rental revenue for vacant space in relation to the total rental revenue. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 128 Information schedule Addresses 28 April 2020 Annual General Meeting HEADQUARTERS 28 April 2020 Interim Report, January – March 2020 Akademiska Hus 10 July 2020 Interim report January – June 2020 Box 483 22 October 2020 Interim Report, January – September 2020 SE-401 27 Gothenburg February 2021 Year-end report 2020 Street address: Sven Hultins Plats 5 March 2021 Annual Report 2020 Telephone: +46 10-557 24 00 akademiskahus.se info@akademiskahus.se Company registration number 556459-9156 For further information REGIONAL OFFICES Akademiska Hus Linköping Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President Olaus Magnus väg 34 kerstin.lindberggoransson@akademiskahus.se SE-583 30 Linköping Catarina Fritz, CFO Akademiska Hus Lund catarina.fritz@akademiskahus.se Ole Römers väg 2 SE-223 63 Lund Akademiska Hus Stockholm Box 1394 SE-171 27 Solna Street address: Berzelius väg 8, floors 3–5 Akademiska Hus Uppsala Artillerigatan 7 SE-752 37 Uppsala Akademiska Hus Umeå Box 7985 SE-907 19 Umeå Street address: Artedigränd 2 PRODUCED BY: Akademiska Hus in cooperation with Narva PHOTO: Jesper Orrbeck (Cover, page 23), Olof Holdar (page 3, 7, 58–59), Jonatan Fernström (page 19, 23), Ola Kjelbye (page 1, 2, 9, 12–13, 16–17, 23, 30, 32, 35, 39, 40–41), Linköpings universitet (page 5, 23), Jean-Baptiste Béranger (page 24, 27, 34), Anders Bryngel (page 4), Edel Puntonet (page 2, 4, 37), Brita Nordholm (page 5), Catarina Fyrberg (page 8) ILLUSTRATION: BSK Arkitekter (page 26, 40), Tengbom Arkitekter (page 2, 29) Akademiska Hus/Zynka BIM (page 5). PRINTER: Göteborgstryckeriet The information in this Annual Report is such that Akademiska Hus (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication at 5:00 p.m. CET on 27 March 2020. AKADEMISKA HUS | Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 129 akademiskahus.se/en
