COMMUNICATION ON ON PROGRESS PROGRESS ON ON PROGRESS PROGRESS DRAGON ROUGE ON ON PROGRESS PROGRESS ON ON PROGRESS PROGRESS ON 2019 PROGRESS DRAGON ROUGE THINK OF THE PLANET Our environment is fragile, only print this COP if it is really necessary. 100 You % need to print it? Choose black and white printing. Print on both sides of the paper. Paper is the most natural, renewable and recyclable communication medium. Don’t forget to recycle it. OUR COMMITMENTS Our first year as members of the United Nations Global Compact was marked with overall progress in our NOTRE ENGAGEMENT In 2020, we will go one step further and build a CSR engagements, raising the consciousness from our entire assessment tool for our suppliers to measure their own team of Dragons on the necessity to act together progress. This should also help us determine a preferred on our social, corporate, environmental and ethical pillars. selection of them. This year, we particularly worked on raising awareness While 2019 was a year of awakening for our Dragons that with our clients. We put in place specific offerings for them united around key fundamental CSR actions, 2020 will show DRAGON ROUGE on sustainability conscious solutions and initiatives, more meaningful and visible results from all these initiatives. helping brands to engage further on these issues. At Dragon Rouge, we constantly push ourselves We also wrote for all our partners a new Dragon Rouge to re-invent. CSR is part of this permanent re-invention Code of Conduct for Business Partners, which explicitly exercise, forcing us to rethink our methods, solutions, formalizes our mutual engagements related to Corporate and general practices. Social Responsibilities: fighting corruption, respecting human rights, labour laws, business ethics, health and We continue to take great pride in being part of the United safety measures, and promoting environmental protection. Nations Global Compact network, contributing as best This Code of Conduct will we can to the progress of our societies. be integrated in all of our contracts signed within all of our 8 agencies. Renaud Deschamps Group CEO DRAGON ROUGE 246 WOMEN AND MEN TALENTS, DESIGNERS DRAGON ROUGE AND STRATEGISTS DRAGON ROUGE, it is 246 women and men united by a common culture and who enjoy referring to each other as Dragons; 246 talents, designers et strategists who share common values of excellence, generosity and boldness. agence Hamburg (Germany) DRAGON ROUGE, is an independent creative agency. Small enough to phone a friend, but big enough to cover the world LondON (United Kingdom) with our 8 offices. DRAGON ROUGE, New York (United States) it is also a mission: that of igniting brands and propelling them forward DRAGON ROUGE Paris (France HQ) creating the clarity, vitality and relevance they need to succeed. São Paulo (Brazil) Shanghai (China) SingaporE (Singapore) WarsaW de création (Poland) SUSTAINABLE LASTLY, DRAGON ROUGE IS A COMPANY THAT BELIEVES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THAT publicly expresses its commitment BY RENEWING ITS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT MEMBERSHIP. 1 S  upport and respect the protection 6  ontribute to the elimination C of human rights of discrimination in respect of employment or occupation 2  on-complicity in human rights N violations 7 S  upport a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 3 U  phold freedom of association and recognise the right to collective 8  ndertake initiatives to promote U bargaining greater environmental responsibility 4 C  ontribute to the elimination 9 E  ncourage the development of all forms of forced and compulsory and diffusion of environmentally labour friendly technologies 5 C  ontribute to the effective abolition 10  ct against corruption in all A of forced and compulsory labour its forms, including extortion and bribery global Since 2018, we communicate about our advances in terms of social responsibility through our Communication on progress published and accessible to all on the United Nations Global Compact website. DRAGON ROUGE Because we perceive our collaborators’ commitment as essential to responding to the challenges of a true ethical and responsible approach, we relied on the expertise of our CSR Team: about fifteen voluntary Dragons, involved at the operational level compact in the teams’ work organisation, the choice of our partners or in our business practices. They are the ones who suggested indicators of improvement and set our goals. DRAGONS AROUND THE WORLD IN 2019 Europe DRAGON ROUGE Our Paris and London offices, often mentioned in this COP, account for 65% AMERICAS AsiA-PACIFIC of our staff. A BETTER REPORTING 50% 39% This year, in order to achieve our goal to improve the social and environmental reporting of our 8 agencies, we: Implemented a Human Resources Information System which 39% hamburg centralizes DRAGON ROUGE’s HR information. This collaborative london 86% tool, Kammi, enabled us to simplify the reporting of our 8 NEW YORK agencies by placing the human beings at the centre of the group PARIS because it is somewhat a corporate social network which enables SãO PAULO everyone to post documents, customize its user profile, request SHANGHAI time off… We also chose this system because it best meets legal 47% DRAGON ROUGE and technological developments such as the GDPR, for example. SINGAPORE Kammi is now among the top 3 HR publishers for SMEs in terms warsaw of security. Kammi also provides transverse protection systems or functionalities to the 5 fundamental pillars: data integrity, confidentiality, traceability, authentication and protection. 39% 53% Conducted a survey among the Dragons of our 8 offices in order to collect information that would enable us to improve 29% the human and environmental aspect of our CSR approach in its human and environmental dimensions. The responses compiled anonymously revealed that 76,4% of the Dragons were satisfied with the layout and equipment of their workstation and that, in the event of hardships, 94,5% of them knew who to turn to. This survey also shed light on areas for improvement which we leaned against to conduct our efforts in 2019. PARTICiPATION RATE TO OUR FIRST INTERNAL CSR SURVEY Giving OUR • Our employees: Dragons, future stakeholders or current, on a permanent or fixed-term contract, interns and a Listening ear freelance, all concerned primarily by our social policy and whose involvement in our CSR strategy is essential. Our stakeholders • Our current or future clients that design & business we support or can support in their include all the actors schools CSR approach. who have an interest in our activities because SHAREHOLDERS charities • Our suppliers and business partners that are part of our sphere of influence they participate in our and that we encourage in their CSR economic life, influence DRAGON ROUGE approach via our code of conduct. our behaviour internally DESIGN and externally or are clients ASSOCIATIONS • Our shareholders, owners of part of our capital. affected directly or not by our activities. • Design, communication or business potential potential schools and design associations clients future dragons with which we maintain quality relationships. • Non-profit organisations and charities suppliers permanent for which we offer our expertise dragons through partnerships. business dragons with & development temporary or fixedpartners term contracts 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS freelance competitors dragons young interns and apprentices summary The CSR approach that we committed to in 2018 allowed us to improve our capacity to adapt to our stakeholders’ expectations regarding ethical topics and sustainable development. OUR SOCIAL responsibility: OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY: OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY: Our SOCIETAL Responsibility: OUR SOCIAL 01 responsibility: 96% THE turn-over The blossoming of talents holds REMAINS STABLE great interest for our group. Our creativity depends on it. AT AROUND 3% OF DRAGONS Excellence and collaborative spirit are also essential to the success IN permanent CONTRACT 94% of our missions, even as our VERSUS SOCIAL responsibility collaborators need to adapt, IN 2018 to meet the challenges and constantly changing needs of a globalised market. We provided them with a work organisation and setting thought THE AVERAGE The absenteeism out to foster their development. rate within the group SENIORITY 4 REMAINS stable OF A DRAGON AROUND 2% IS YEARS 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH dragon life SOCIAL responsibility the right balance The work/life balance is a question that we touch on every year during 100 % the annual talks about working life at home time with the Dragons. DISCONNECTION In 2019, we formalised a charter on the right to disconnect which was given to each Dragon of our French agency. Our goal for 2020, is to give it to each Dragon within the group according to local legal constraints. The right to disconnect is a proposed human right regarding the ability of people to disconnect from work and primarily not to engage in work-related electronic communications such as e-mails or messages during non-working hours. This charter reiterates our wish to respect our collaborator’s breaks and leaves. It guarantees their right to not log in to their work digital tools and not be connected, including on their personal communication tools for a professional motive outside of their usual working hours. This charter also recalls the best practices (email scheduling, insertion of the mention “this message does not call for an immediate response” …) and measures to be taken to reduce cognitive overload (disable app notifications, etc.). 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING FLEXIBILITY In addition, each of our offices has the freedom to grant its employees with free time beyond its area’s minimum legal requirements. paris warsaw & london new york são paolo friday afternoon off one day off on their 4 days off days off between for the Dragons. birthday for Dragons. (friday or monday) weekends and holidays SOCIAL responsibility Le vendredi Le vendredi extended Le vendrediweekends during when Le the business activity vendredi après-midi est libre après-midi est libre summertime (inest libre a country après-midi makes it possible après-midi est libre with traditionally few for the Dragons. holidays). london in seven of our offices 100 % 100 % on friday in july and august remote work in case of the part-time hours are of the requests for unpaid the Dragons stop working of an occasional need chosen and not imposed. leaves are accepted. at vendredi Le 4pm. Le vendredi Le vendredi Le vendredi to be at home and after après-midi est libre après-midi est libre après-midi est libre après-midi est libre validation of the manager. dragons in shape Health and well-being action plan In order to provide all • Flu vaccination is available the Dragons with good to all our Dragons in Paris or London. safety nets (health, old age, inability-disability-death • Our Warsaw office contributes coverage), we offer as part up to 500 PLN, to the cost of glasses SOCIAL responsibility Our London office has also implemented of our health prevention worn at work. a health and well-being action plan for its policy: a local health Dragons. insurance that goes beyond • The London Work Bike Program covers the minimum 40% of the cost of a new bike. To do so, they have listed initial priorities legal requirements. for implementation and will monitor and • The adoption of the new Swile evaluate these actions on a half yearly basis. restaurant ticket card for the Dragons They will measure success, by tracking of Paris allows them to get up to 30% perceptions from the Global Dragon Rouge discount on their lunch and a greater survey for 2020, as well as from informal 1-2-1 freedom in managing their lunch credit. and group conversations with employees. This action plan covers a number or topics • Lastly, our Paris office covers up to such as cigarette or alcohol addiction, healthy 50% of the cost of its Dragons’ sports eating, physical activity, sleep, work and subscriptions (limited to 230€ annually) health, and well-being. As part of this action (provided they have at least one year of plan the agency also offers massages seniority), while our Warsaw office covers and healthy meals to all Dragons. 30% of the cost of its Dragons’ multisport passes. DRAGON & mobility Our global reach allows us to offer the Dragons who request it, the possibility to work temporarily in one of our 8 agencies. SO IN 2019, WE: • Extended by one more year the expatriation in Shanghai of one of our French Dragons 100wished who % to. • Allowed a São Paulo Dragon to “relocate” to our French office for one month to join his family newly settled in Paris. • Offered a 2-month stay in London to a Parisian Dragon for strategic study. DRAGONS trainings 2019 LANGUAGES 29 COMMUNICATION 9 PROJECT MANAGEMENT 29 STRATEGY, DESIGN THINKING 16 & INNOVATION CREATION 6 MANAGEMENT 6 TEAM BUILDING 9 CSR 2 FIRST AID 14 IT 6 LEGAL 11 TRAINED DRAGONS 137 PERSONNAL In 2019, we chose to invest primarily in language, personal development, management and project management training. Half of the group’s workforce received training this year. At the same time, we promote curiosity through our internal workshops: • 2 annual design and graphic chain training courses for new Dragons in Paris. • The Hamburg Dragons attended training courses for new HQ project management software. • Dragon Rouge London held an internal training/development program called Drive. It was created to cover the needs of employees, following two annual skill evaluations. • Lunch & Learn sessions or presentations on voluntary basis were offered by our Paris, London, Warsaw and New York offices. The speakers can be Dragon experts (sustainable packaging, digital footprint, sustainable materials, etc.) as well as external speakers (Ellen Macarthur, our partner on circular economy, Common Cents, the social company that offers to introduce micro-donations during online and in-store purchases, web design). • First aid trainings were organized in Paris and London. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Coaching, mentoring, training … 100% OF THE 21 INTERNAL PROMOTIONS WE ALSO HOSTED IN LONDON, ANNUAL INDIVIDUAL WERE GRANTED IN 2019 20 DRAGONS WITH TWO OF OUR DESIGNERS PERFORMANCE REVIEWS (VS 17 PROMOTIONS APPRENTICESHIP ARE REGISTERED WERE COMPLETED IN 2018) CONTRACTS IN THE KERNING THE GAP SOCIAL responsibility PROGRAM Le vendredi These interviews are based on an evaluation grid which focuses on the 6 invendredi Le Paris, 6 in London, 4 in Warsaw, Le vendredi Thereby we offered young students Le vendredi après-midi est libre collaborators’ skills and well-being and après-midi 3 in Singapore, est libre 1 in New York and 1 après-midi the opportunity est libre to alternate après-midi The aim of which is est libre to get more in Shanghai. theoretical and professional training, women to hold leadership positions allowed us to implement actions for skill development. in order to understand the world of in the design industry. work at an early age.. THE 1-2-1 EXECUTIVE 13 MANAGERS TRAINED 100% OF TRAININGS IN PARIS, DRAGONS COACHING PROGRAM TO “INTRODUCE WITH WERE COMPLETED DURING ARE ENCOURAGED WAS ALSO ATTENDED IMPACT” AT SINGAPORE WORKING TIME TO MAKE THE MOST BY SENIOR MANAGERS AND PARIS OF THEIR TRAINING IN LONDON CREDIT Le vendredi Le vendredi They learned how to work Le vendredi Le vendredi après-midi This program helps est libre them to focus après-midi on an elevator pitch,est libre après-midi est libre après-midi est libre And are assisted in the preparation on their goals and build confidence. how to practice non-verbal of their application. communication and manage stress before speaking in public. In all our offices, you will find fruit baskets in free disposal or “chill” areas (Loft, garden, cafeteria, sofas or terrace). But to motivate and keep our talents, we must be constantly creative. 100 %ask them for their So let’s opinion on what could improve their well-being. After conducting our first CSR survey, we made some of their beautiful ideas come to life. IN OUR PARISIAN AGENCY SHOWER “A CAFETERIA 2.0” PAymENT THE MAGIC INSTALLATION of a bike BUS we adopted a cheaper compensation SOCIAL responsibility hoping to encourage offer of cooked meals During autumn 2019, the RATP Dragons to keep (10% discount) made up to 200€ per year for and SNCF strikes paralyzed with fresh products France. Therefore, we set a healthy lifestyle, those who come to work up a “magic bus”, an internal come to work by bike without additives by bike. carpooling service allowing all or take a sports break. or preservatives Dragons to come to and leave and a delivery free the agency in good conditions. Le vendredi Le of vendredi charge. Le vendredi Dragon Le Rouge covered the vendredi après-midi est libre après-midi est libre après-midi est libre gas and parking costs après-midi of the est libre co-driver entirely. In partnership with the International School of SPA, we dedicated the last week of November to the holistic reconciliation of our 4 bodies: physical, energetic, SOCIAL responsibility emotional and mental. “Home-made” smoothies, nutrition, aromatherapy, sophrology, yoga and massage workshops were organized within the agency throughout the week for the Dragons of Paris. week london • An Art Pass is offered to the Dragons who have confirmed their trial period in London. They can get discounts on the largest exhibitions and museums in England. • Our London branch has received the London Healthy Workplace certification that recognizes and rewards employers who invest in health and well-being at the workplace. By adhering to the London Healthy Workplace Charter, collaborators and managers can be made aware of the importance of the well-being in the workplace and encourage good practices. SOCIAL responsibility • Our New York Dragons are members of the Investors In People organization since 2002. NEW YORK • Our New York Dragons are members of the Whithney Museum of American Art and the MOMA. social dialogue We believe that the quality of the social climate is a determining factor for the quality of working life and our productivity. We have a Social & Economic Committee which meets every month in France and which has an elected trade union representative. In our other agencies, social dialogue is one of our priorities and takes the form of a plenary meeting at least monthly and often weekly. welcome A welcome meeting, a small presentation of all the members of the agency, a guided tour, organized team lunches, welcome gifts (mug, notebook, t-shirts…) are some of the small gestures that will promote the adaptation to the “Dragon” culture in most of our agencies. SOCIAL responsibility For a smooth integration, no question of arriving without already having your email address and your computer equipment prepared. Our IT team keeps a close watch and as soon as new Dragons arrive, they ensure that their integration is smooth and problem-free. In Paris, each new Dragon is also entitled to a special shooting session in our photographer’s studio for his/her new Dragon portrait. MOMENTS MOMENTS SOCIAL responsibility MOMENTS MOMENTS MOMENTS Bonding times THE SHANGHAI The Dragons of Singapore, The Hamburg Dragons DRAGONS STAYED in addition to their traditional 3 DAYS AT THE HOTEL annual «Open Air Movie Night», were all invited DI SHUI HU gathered for a to spend TEAM BUILDING DAY: SOCIAL responsibility to vendredi Le share activities Le vendredi AN Le EVENING AND vendredi AN AQUABIKING A NIGHT IN BERLIN après-midi est libre and relax together. après-midi est libre SESSION, FOLLOWED après-midi est libre TO RECEIVE THEIR BY A MASSAGE RED DOT DESIGN AND A CULINARY AWARD AT THE RED WORKSHOP. DOT GALA. Dragons like to get together to celebrate For the 25th anniversary THE DRESSED-UP and share about winning competitions of our agency in Poland,, CHRISTMAS PARTY and successful projects: “Loft” or Popcorn evenings in Paris. ALL WARSAW Those privileged moments are sources DRAGONS WERE in Dragon Rouge Paris has become a real institution. of inspiration and motivation! INVITED TO STAY Birthdays, births of a new child and even Le INvendredi PARIS FOR 3 DAYS. This Le year, the 3rd vendredi departures are occasions to celebrate millennium scenery of the après-midi est libre On the agenda: meeting with the après-midi est libre at Dragon Rouge. All our offices regularly Parisian Dragons, sightseeing “Cyber Punk Party” plan festive evenings, and not only of the French capital, gastronomic meals, evening at the Moulin Rouge allowed the Dragons Christmas parties but also BBQ, happy and shopping! to travel to the future. hour, games, tournaments, cooking workshops, etc. WE CREATE DRAGONS MOMENTUM FROM ALL horizons… MOMENTUM Although small in size, our agency is present in 8 countries and welcomes Dragons of 17 different nationalities. This multiculturalism is our strength. MOMENTUM We encourage it and organize once a year a great festival of creativity with the creative directors of our 8 offices. MOMENTUM This year, they met in Paris to present their interpretation of Momentum, 100 or rather%to answer the question MOMENTUM “Brand Momentum, what the hell is that ?” as part of our new “We create momentum”, MOMENTUM positioning. A dozen short films prepared by their teams were screened in front of the French Dragons then retransmitted MOMENTUM to the Dragons of our 7 other agencies. The motto: fun, creativity and inspiration! MOMENTUM GENDER EQUALITY INDEX: 77/100 Our goal is to improve this index in a constant manner in the next few years. 5 GENDER EQUALITY EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for all We welcome Dragons of all backgrounds, sizes and shapes, as long as they can spit fire! All the positions offered within our group are open to people with This index was calculated according to 4 indicators: the gender pay disabilities. In addition, for office gap, the difference in the distribution of individual wage raises, the supplies, we call on l’Atelier Le Chêne number of employees who got a raise on their return from maternity 100 in % an adapted company. France, leave, the parity among the 10 highest pay. In our 8 agencies, we fight against Among the 13 leaders of our group, we have 5 women (Shanghai, 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES all forms of discrimination and do not tolerate any form of sexual, physical or Hamburg, Warsaw and two in France). Women therefore represent 40% moral harassment, coercion of Dragon Rouge’s Top Management. 3 of the group’s top 10 salaries or persecution. are paid to women. Lastly, we have always ensured equal access to training and employment for all, women and men. aGE PERSONALIZED FOLLOW-UP FOR DRAGONS OVER 55 Even though the average age 35 years old remains young throughout the group, an annual information meeting and an individual interview 37% / 14% with a retirement counsellor are specially organized and offered to Dragons over 55 years of age, in order to help them better prepare for their future. of Dragons of Dragons are under are over We believe in the virtues of diversity of any kind. 30 years old 50 years old Generational diversity also creates value. We work to create a fair environment in our agencies. It is important that we’ll give everyone the same opportunities for professional development. 02 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY: We are committed to a progressive OUR FIRST INTERNAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN WE LOVE OUR NEIGHBOURS! approach to limiting our Charity begins at home. Even if our activity generates little noise, we look after the well-being environmental footprint by using Thus, following the publication of our first Communication on Progress, of our neighbours. natural resources efficiently we conducted an awareness campaign This is why, this year, we have removed with our Dragons. Among the objectives two climatic test cabinets from the roof of our Paris office (replaced and sustainably, reducing of this campaign: presenting our COP, spreading awareness about by compressors inside the computer room). These, together with all the pipes, the emission of greenhouse our excessive plastic consumption, ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsibility providing information on good digital have been completely dismantled practices and collectively limiting and treated by the company in charge gases and recycling our waste. our carbon footprint by simple gestures. of our air treatment system. THE COMPUTER lottery Simultaneously, we actively support After extending our computers’ renewal our customers in their CSR approach, period from 4 to 5 years, we organized 12 RESPONSIBLE our first “Lottery” in France. CONSUMPTION by helping them to act more responsibly AND PRODUCTION Thirty lots of computers and laptops or by encouraging them, via our new were won by Dragons for a symbolic “Code of Conduct for Business Partners”. sum of 1 €. Double benefit: the recycling This is for them to put in place appropriate of our computer equipment and a happy Dragon. measures aimed at reducing, as much Our goal for 2020: generalize this as possible, the impact of their commercial approach for smartphones! activities on the environment. THE END OF PLASTIC In 2019, we tackled the dishes. Glasses, plates, stirrers, cutlery, plastic and PET bottles have given way to reusable cups, earthenware plates, stainless steel cutlery and glass bottles. In Paris, we have also invested in new drinking water fountains for sparkling water addicts (more bottles on the way!) ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsibility And to facilitate the new cleaning habits, a dishwasher has been installed in the cafeteria of our Paris office! 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Recycling OF OUR WASTE Although we do not generate hazardous waste, we take care of our paper and cardboard waste (La Corbeille Bleue (Paprec) in France), ink cartridges from our printers collected & recycled by CONIBI (ISO 9001) or HP, photoreceptors and ovens reconditioned by Xerox. Last but not least, all defective batteries, bulbs and neon tubes are recycled and recovered by different service providers. Dematerialization, THE GOOD alternative to paper 2018 2019 1630 reams of A4 paper SUS 1361 reams of A4 paper ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsibility VER i.e. 6,1 reams I.E. 5,5 reams This year, of paper of paper with the implementation per Dragon per Dragon of our new HRMS, Kammi, a decrease of we have achieved our goal CONSUMPTION to dematerialize all leave of 16% requests from DRAGON ROUGE collaborators within the group. And now so are all requests for reimbursement of expenses from our Paris office. Our goal for 2020: dematerialize all mediums used for the annual evaluation interviews of the Dragons. Electricity, on the way to a new consumption Even though our second largest agency, The significant drop of our electricity consumption in London, already uses a supplier of electricity is explained by the installation of LED lighting that is 100% green, and frack free, the project in our agencies with a goal of 100% LED in Paris to move towards a 100% renewable local for 2020. and citizen-friendly electricity consumption is under study for our office in Paris, where 100% A clock device also allows to turn off the air of the toilets are already equipped with automatic conditioners of our office in Paris during periods lighting with motion detectors. of vacancy. 2018 2019 596 054 kWh for the group SUS 460 850 kWh for the group VER i.e. 2232 kWh i.e. 1873 kWh per Dragon per Dragon a decrease of 23% for the group OUR GAS CONSUMPTION 2018 2019 450 374 kWh for the group SUS 388 524 kWh for the group VER i.e. 1 687 kWh i.e. 1 580 kWh per Dragon per Dragon a decrease of 14% OUR WATER CONSUMPTION 2018 2019 Our activity does not require water, our consumption is related to sanitary SUS use, the maintenance of our green 2353 m 3 2350 m3 spaces and the supply of filtered water for the group for the group fountains made available to the Dragons. In order to limit our water VER i.e. 8,8 m 3 i.e. 9,5 m Per Dragon 3 consumption in 2019, we set up an automatic sprinkler system per Dragon A similar consumption for our green spaces in Paris. although there were less Dragons 6 CLEAN WATER ANS SANITATION Traveling responsibly by LIMITING OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Established in France and abroad, our activity falls within the tertiary sector. Therefore, the transportation of our collaborators remains our main source of greenhouse gas emissions. In order to encourage business trips that generate the least pollution, we choose to travel by train rather than by plane for our collaborators’ trips lasting less than three hours. In 2019, we also set up a charging station for electric vehicles in the parking lot of our Paris office. Our fleet currently consists of 5 company cars, including 2 hybrid vehicles. Our objective is to systematically renew this fleet with hybrid vehicles. 57757 kg 23% of CO 2 that’s how much our Warsaw Le vendredi Le vendredi agency reduced its business trips in 2019. après-midi est libre après-midi est libre In 2018, only 32% of the domestic generated by our Paris agency’s transportations. trips were made by train, while in 2019, they represented 56% of trips. As PRESCRIBERS, WE ACTIVELY SUPPORT OUR Clients IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE APPROACH Responsible and sustainable challenges For several years, we have indeed are becoming more and more pressing. been working to rethink our profession We are committed, hand in hand with through different initiatives and for each our clients and partners, to design a new of our projects. All of our presentations future for branding in all its dimensions now include a sustainable development (packaging, identity, retail, digital ...). component. We have also developed suitable methods, such as the SOURCE Since 2019, we have been encouraging method for responsible and sustainable our customers, through our “Code packaging. These proprietary methods of Conduct for Business Partners”, were designed to help our customers to put in place appropriate measures significantly reduce their environmental toxminimize the impact of their business footprint and are based on 3 fields activities on the environment. of action. In order to raise our client’s awareness on the major sustainability challenges, 13 CLIMATE ACTION we took part in discussion seminars such as “From Design Thinking to Circular Thinking” in Amsterdam or “Make Fashion circular” in Barcelona. Our material library manager, working in together with our architecture and project management teams, is able to train and guide our customers towards the most sustainable solutions: Selection of all our suppliers based on sustainable development criteria. Choice of industrial partners (large groups or SMEs) engaged in a CSR or SME approach (ISO 14001 standard) and in manufacturing processes INTERNALIZED that consume little energy resources, water and raw materials (EU energy label). HISTORICAL Orientation of the choice of materials by always EXPERTISE integrating the environmental criteria and by favouring official and independent labels at European level. OUR COLOR & PROTOTYPE OUR PHOTO STUDIO Finally, we have an INTEGRATED STUDIO allows is equipped for all types environmentally-committed Constant technological watch us to provide solutions adapted of shootings (portraits expertise and an ECO-DESIGN (ADEME, INIES database, to the allocated budget of managers, creation of image MATERIAL LIBRARY. CSTB, Observatory of indoor air and to achieve them in little banks, shooting of products quality) on sustainable products time (time and money savings). and materials, etc.), (time and on new forms of recyclability, It also ensures the sustainability and money savings). (supplier meetings, trade show and reliability of tailor-made visits, etc.). colour research, done in complete confidentiality. Realization of colour and volume models, 3D simulation. A RESPONSIBLE CLIENTAGENCY RELATIONSHIP Since 2019, we have been conducting internally awareness campaigns about good CSR practices. These are intended to make our collaborators aware of the impact of their choice on a daily basis so that they can all play their part with our clients. We make our strategic recommendations in full awareness of the design and production impacts that they imply. We have implemented a pragmatic and educational «step by step» method to support our clients in a sustainable and responsible approach on 4 levels: technical and industrial feasibility, relevance for the consumer, category challenges, brand DNA. ENVIRONMENTALLY We make sure to select papers We reduce the use of inks from sustainable sources: by limiting the inking surface. COMMITTED • with forest certification and certification of the companies We promote the use of biodegradable and recyclable CREATION that process the raw material until vegetable inks which do not use the finished product: FSC, PEFC, solvents derived from fossil raw materials, or heavy metals. AND PRODUCTION • recycled papers not chemically treated, • wood-free papers, based on We promote the application the cultivation of fast-growing fibrous of acrylic varnishes (water-based, ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsIbility plants (kenaf, hemp), the recovery odourless and easier to recycle) We are attentive to all the physical of≈agricultural waste (straw, vegetables, over oily varnishes (offset), UV sugar cane, bamboo) and of the textile or film-coating. and digital dimensions of brands, industry (cotton, flax). from supports and materials We avoid papers that are too white (paper, wood, pigments, glass, and that have been treated too much. etc.) for publishing, packaging We always recommend ISO 216 or to the printing and manufacturing document formats to avoid paper (inks, paints, varnishes, filming, waste. shaping...). The standard ISO 216 applied to the choice of a format avoids wasting paper. In Europe, the A series are used: by cutting an A (N) sheet into two identical parts, we obtain two sheets of A (N + 1) format. The ISO 216 standard allows the processing of the majority of printed supports without paper waste. We systematically reduce the number of pages of documents to be produced and their number of copies to what is strictly necessary. Privileged partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Through our partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which advocates accelerating the transition to a circular economy, we are raising awareness about the sustainable development challenges among our teams. The members of the Foundation take part in our seminars and invite participants to reflect on the advantages of the circular economy. ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsibility The London Dragons even had the opportunity to visit a recycling site. Dorothy Mackenzie, chairman of the London office, is also very involved in the environmental movement. In 1991, she had already written a book about the good “Green Design” practices. Dorothy Mackenzie also spoke at the 7th Edition of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Summit. This Summit brings together world leading thinkers, innovators and pioneers circular who are refining and implementing the vision of an economic system economy that is restorative and regenerative, by design. Dorothy MacKenzie took part in the EMF CE100’s Acceleration Workshop, which provides a pre-competitive space to share knowledge and advance individual agendas. These immersive events are a chance to learn from expert input, build new relationships, and progress collective approaches. She is head of the board of directors of the Carbon Trust, which helps organizations transition to a low-carbon future, as well. Our London CEO and Hamburg Managing Director also attended the Carbon Trust and Department for International Trade’s (DIT) event briefing in Düsseldorf on September 12th. The session was focused on helping corporates in Germany boost action on climate leadership. THE ECONOMIC PILLAR: eCO Getting involved in a sustainable environmental approach requires engaging with objectives that go beyond simply responding to a program, while respecting the budget and regulatory constraints. We have to think with limited means and resources; innovate more with less. THE ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR: An eco-design material library The scarcity of non-renewable resources, the need to reduce the carbon footprint that is committed to sustainable of the building industry, forces us to rethink development practices and have common sense. Wexmust design by minimizing resources, by predicting the end-of-life of our projects Our goal is to systematically design our projects based on a sustainable development and their reversibility. logic. Materials are only one link in this process, and one cannot reduce eco-design by their selection alone. THE SOCIAL PILLAR: All of these commitments are a concrete Our material library works as the interface in contact with suppliers, manufacturers response to our CSR values, as well as those and all of our partners (installers, sign makers) and our internal teams (designers of our clients. Our architectural and design and project management), in order to establish a constructive and environmentally concepts already meet the fundamentals meaningful dialogue from the concept phase. of lighting, ergonomics, accessibility, i.e. By acknowledging the eco-design strategies to adopt with our designers all the criteria for the well-being, health, and interior architects, the material library manager references the environmental and comfort of users. indicators of the selected materials in an inventory and ensures a technological As contractors or project managers, we also include the safety and health aspects CONCEPTION and regulatory monitoring. Thus, our projects can obey the three fundamental pillars of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. of workers and craftsmen on our sites. Our sustainable development approach improves the image of all stakeholder companies and brands with which we are committed. This objective is accompanied by a reflection on a demonstrative methodology for the ecoefficiency of our projects. OUR PROFESSION IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE COMPLEX GRAPHIC CHAIN. TO ENSURE THAT WE UNDERSTAND ENVIRONNEMENTAL responsIbility THE DIFFERENT PRINTING PROCESSES, OUR PRODUCTION MANAGER IN PARIS HOLDS EACH QUARTER A GRAPHIC CHAIN TRAINING WORKSHOP (1/2 DAY) FOR OUR COLLABORATORS. WE ALSO PROVIDE AND OFFER TO ALL OUR CLIENTS AN ANNUAL ONE DAY CREATION-MARKETING-PRODUCTION WORKSHOP. DURING THESE WORKSHOPS, WE MAKE PROJECT MANAGERS AWARE OF NEW ECO-DESIGNED MATERIALS, BIODEGRADABLE INKS AND OF THE RECYCLABILITY CYCLE OF PACKAGING. 03 OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY: OUR first Business Partner Code of Conduct In our previous COP, we made Rights, the fundamental conventions of the implementation of our «Code of conduct the International Labour Organization (ILO) The 2019 “Code of conduct for Dragon for business partners» a goal. It is a major and the Sustainable Development Goals Rouge business partners” is part step forward for the Dragon Rouge group. (ODD), in compliance with the legislation, of our desire to deliver quality creations This Code is intended to be incorporated applicable regulations, as well as contractual that meet the requirements of our clients into all of our contractual commitments provisions in force. with our Business Partners. and to maintain long-term relationships Any serious failure by a Commercial built on trust: this Code formalizes We have thus strengthened our actions Partner to comply with the principles set ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY commitments expected from our business aimed at promoting good social out in this Code constitutes a breach of partners, in the fight against corruption, and environmental practices with all contractual obligations, and is likely to result respect for human rights and labour our partners and at defining our ethical in the application of the coercive measures expectations. This Code applies to all provided for in the contract, which may lead standards, protection of human health of our Business Partners, clients, suppliers to the outright termination of the contract, and safety and protection of environment. and service providers. at the fault of the Commercial Partner, without prejudice to any damages which may By their commitment to work with Dragon be claimed by Dragon Rouge. Rouge, our Commercial Partners sign their acceptance and compliance with the terms In the event that a Commercial Partner, of this Code (unless equivalent principles due to particular circumstances, is unable were previously agreed upon). to comply with certain provisions 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS of the Code, it is required to notify For each topic of the Code, our us immediately in order to agree on Business Partners comply with the the corrective measures to be implemented. principles arising from the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human main PRINCIPles THE MAIN PRINCIPLES OF THIS CODE TARGET: • In terms of ethics, our desire to treat our partners with honesty and fairness in order to maintain a lasting and healthy business relationship. We expect our partners to act in the same way and alert us in the event of a potential conflict of interest before the start of a mission; • The fight against all forms of corruption and money laundering; • Respect of human rights and international labour standards, in particular the main conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) which fights against forced or compulsory labour, illegal work, child labour, and all forms of discrimination (religion, sex, political opinion, social origin, etc.); • Health, Safety and respect of the Environment: Our Business Partners must ensure that appropriate measures are in place to protect the health and safety of their employees and minimize the impact of their business activities on the environment. In 2020, our goal is to expand and strengthen this Code with an alert system allowing our collaborators and all third parties to confidentially warn Dragon Rouge about abnormal situations or actions, going against the Code’s principles, particularly in matters of business ethics. lONG-TERM relationships FOUNDED ON trust, with everyone WE ARE COMMITTED TO FOSTERING EFFECTIVE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES WITH ALL OUR PARTNERS. OUR Subcontractors and suppliers We have many in-house skills at our disposal. However, when we need to seek resources outside of our usual scope of activity or when specific expertise is required, we may resort to external service providers or suppliers. We currently work with suppliers whose practices meet our requirements in terms of cost, quality and delivery times but who also share our ethical, social and environmental concerns. However, we aim to improve the consideration of environmental factors in our decision-making process so that we can act more actively, in the search for creative and innovative solutions that promote more sustainable consumption patterns. Goal for 2020: question all our suppliers on their responsible approach. trust confidentialiTy balance TRANSPARENCY, BALANCE TRUST & CONFIDENTIALITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY AND LOYALTY WITH OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS Any information provided by a client in the context of a project is strictly LOYAlty We consistently work to maintain confidential and remains within partnerships which meet the three the confines of the Group. criteria above. No matter the size of the company (even if it’s a start• All our employees are required to sign up or an SME), if its ambition is clear a Confidentiality Clause in accordance and it’s in line with our values of honesty, with the GDPR. reliability and relevance of the offer • Awareness meetings are held or service, we will consider it. Profitability to educate Dragons on the importance is not our only criteria in the selection of the confidentiality clause process! in their contracts. Our services are routinely based on a preliminary estimate. The cost is specified at each stage of the project. With the exception of some specific cases, services are invoiced for upon delivery of the work and our payment deadlines are in line with the provisions of the Economy Modernization Act. CLEARLY DEFINED WORKING METHODS & deadlines When embarking on a new project, in addition to providing We also encourage exchanges a detailed cost estimate, a working between clients and our in-house methodology is established by teams clearly defining rigorous procedures and steps which stem from: • Our strategic and creative teams attend meetings with clients, especially briefing, • Recognised practices in the industry presentation or debriefing meetings; (e.g. following the stages of the project, namely strategy – • We support our clients during creation – development – finalisation the technical stages by facilitating ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY implementation); face-to-face discussions or calls with our technical experts. • From a thorough study of our client’s requirements or from the expertise we’ve Finally, in order to optimise the gained over 34 years in the creative quality of our work: industry. • Senior managers oversee deliverables We favour regular and direct at important stages; communication: • We refuse deadlines which will inhibit • Transparent and honest the successful completion of a project. information is exchanged via e-mail (to share important information and on an as-needed basis); • Verbal exchanges throughout all the major stages of a project: Debriefing, optimisation, questions; • Informal chats to keep in touch; • Meetings during the crucial stages of a project: Brief, presentation, strategy and creation; • Videoconferences with remote clients. ETHICAL REQUIREMENTS INCENTIVE TO VIGILANCE We have always sought to conduct All forms of fraud are prohibited within transactions which are fair and which the Group and are subject to both comply with the applicable law. ourinternal penalties and the sanctions Commercial relations must be sound prescribed by applicable international and based on a well-defined contractual or local law. Every Dragon must framework (general or specific become familiar and comply with conditions, specific contracts) and must internal control procedures relating reflect the entire scope of a commercial to administrative and financial matters. relationship. Reporting any suspicious transactions • It is obligatory to consult with a direct is compulsory as it enables the Group supervisor when any legal or ethical to intervene before an infraction ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY business-related issue arises. is perpetrated. • It is strictly prohibited to offer • We have a particularly vigilant internal or≈accept gifts/gratuity or to grant control system with regard to warning undue advantages directly or through signals (false invoicing, pricing which intermediaries with the intent to obtain is well above or below the market favourable treatment or to influence standard…). the outcome of a negotiation. • We’ve implemented procedures such as requiring a double signature for bank transfers and making calls to confirm a new IBAN. Respect of copyright Although we are constantly seeking • Check the use history of creations originality and creativity for the benefit through extensive and complete of our clients, we are highly vigilant with preliminary research on intellectual regard to respecting copyright and have property databases like INPI. put in place procedures to: Raise awareness among clients about • Guarantee the traceability the importance of conducting searches of the various creative elements for anteriority. that constitute a piece of work whether • Raise awareness among employees it was created entirely by Dragon Rouge about the prohibition of infringing or whether it includes pre-existing thirdon copyright, including literary, ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY party artwork (graphics, illustration, artistic and industrial property photography, etc.). We have established rights. We impose this prohibition art purchasing procedures within on our creative services providers the framework of our contracts with in order to avoid cases of infringement. stock photo databases. Our clients have peace of mind thanks to the extremely broad conditions we’ve negotiated within these contracts which allow for the acquisition of intellectual property rights. respect Respect for competition law Competition is commonly practiced in the world of communication agencies. PREVENTING POSSIBLE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST A conflict of interest occurs when an employee engages in activities that prevent ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY This is a fundamental feature of the open favour his or her own personal interests economy in which we operate. to the detriment of the Group’s interests. In order to prevent such conflicts We strictly adhere to the applicable laws of interest, our employees are made in France and the white paper issued aware of situations in which by the “Association Design Conseil” they cannot make a fair decision (the French Association of Design because they will be affected Agencies). by the outcome. We prohibit the exchange of confidential information and/or any arrangement with a competing agency or agencies to fix prices or conditions of sale, split a market, boycott a market player e.g. in the context of meetings with professional associations such as the ADC and the EPDA. 04 OUR SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY: A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO OUR ECOSYSTEM WE WANT TO BE A DRIVING FORCE TO RESPOND TO THE MAJOR CHALLENGES OF SOCIETY. THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, WE HAVE ENGAGED IN CONCRETE 1 NOPOVERTY ACTIONS NOT ONLY TO CONTRIBUTE POSITIVELY TO OUR ECOSYSTEM BUT ALSO TO PUT OUR EXPERTISE AT THE SERVICE OF CHARITIES. FOUNDED IN 2009, THE ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION’S MISSION IS TO ACCELERATE THE TRANSITION TO THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY As an influential organisation, societal responsibility the Foundation has succeeded in creating global momentum around thexcircular economy and putting it at the top of the agendas of business leaders, governments and academic researchers – all in just a few short years. We have joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation as a Knowledge Partner to offer advice and expertise regarding strategic communications and branding. In doing so, we ensure that its circular economy messages inform, resonate and inspire! partner WE WORK CLOSELY WITH CHARITIES ON PRO BONO PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT SOCIETY Since 2017, we have been involved in the initiatives organised by Tout Le Monde Contre le Cancer, societal responsibility a French organisation which carries out events in hospitals to support cancer patients and their families. We designed the entire graphic universe for “l’Échappée Rose” – the first mobile wellness facility which travels to hospitals around the country, allowing patients to put the disease “on pause” and enjoy a moment of relaxation. We also designed for “Les Escales au Château” – escape from the daily routine at the hospital and head off on a dream vacation – and “100 Noëls CANCER dans 100 Hôpitaux” – entertainment, face painting, gourmet snacks and personalised gifts for hospitalised children and their families during Christmas time. THE SKIN ASSOCIATION HELPS WOMEN (AND, MORE RARELY, MEN) societal responsibility AFTER CANCER It is indeed a very fragile moment for many, barely out of their long struggle. SKIN creates duos (ex) patient & artist. From these duets, are born unique works, paintings, photos, choreographies, shows… The SKIN woman expresses her emotions and the artist helps her materialize them... We are committed to this association by offering its visual identity definition, its graphic universe and by offering activations. CANCER societal responsibility COMMITTED to children and teenagers with HERZCASPAR This year, our team from Hamburg formed a partnership with HerzCaspar and offered the whole graphic universe of this beautiful organisation, which helps children and teenagers to get through the difficult moments that they experience during their long stays in the hospital and helps improve their daily lives. with OUR SÃO PAULO AGENCY offered a 50% discount on fees for designing the identity and entire brand universe of Casa Pequeno Mundo, a non-profit association that offers career services, technical courses and full psychosocial support to young people under 19 years old. societal responsibility THE PARISIAN DRAGONS took part in the “Course des Lumières”, a fun run which gathers donations for the Curie Institute. THE LONDON DRAGONS held once again a “morning coffee” for the benefit of the Macmillan Cancer Support organization. They also raised funds for Save the children with “wear your Christmas jumper to workday” and with a bake off also… for BBC children in need. THE NEW YORK DRAGONS volunteered at the soup kitchen twice this year. They volunteered to prepare and serve food for the homeless and for children in very precarious situations. education WE EXTEND our expertise to the academic community. It is a unique opportunity for us to exchange with the designers and consultants of tomorrow and make students the ambassadors of our educational approach in terms of training. WE ARE INVOLVED with École Estienne (meetings with its creative directors, allowing its students to tour our agency, adjudicating student projects) and Tokyo Design School (we plan annual presentations of our expertise as well as agency visits). WE WELCOME young students for “observation internships” to help them decide whether or not to pursue a career in our industry and introduce them to the world of business. 25 DESIGN AND MARKETING STUDENTS from the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) in New York also came to visit our agency in London. WE HELD CONFERENCES about design for student of LCC University, Nottingham Trent, Arts University Bournemouth. Lincoln and Norwich University. For the second year in a row, our London team held its FIRESTARTERS societal responsibility competition. Three briefs were offered to the students of LCC University: Take on taboos, The sustainable every day and From the palm of your hand to the rest of the world. Breaking a tie among the students was tough but three students were rewarded and granted with the opportunity of working with our teams in the studio. competition Dragons in juries and design associations Cannes Lions Le effievendredi awards Le vendredi Global Rebrand 100 Award Le vendredi ADC This year, our creative director après-midi Our team from Warsaw was part après-midi Our Singapore CEO was a jury après-midi Our Paris Consumer Branding CEO was a member of the jury for est libre of the juries of the Effie awards est libre in the Global Rebrand 100 Award. est libre is a member of the ADC Board (Association Design Conseil) which the very prestigious Cannes Lions (which reward the effectiveness This international prize rewards pour les Dragons pour les Dragons pour les Dragons brings together French design agencies societal responsibility Prize. This international festival of communication campaigns), the most successful brand that share a common ambition of creativity is one of the most Innovation awards (best transformations. Le vendredi prestigious events in the advertising, de Le notre vendredi innovations) and agence KTR awards devendredi Le notre agence Le notre agence devendredi to bring client’s brands to life through their products and to be a genuine communication andest libre après-midi creative après-midi (Creativity awards inest libre Poland). après-midi est libre après-midi est libre sector. He dedicated a whole week de Paris. de Paris. de Paris. partner. They also share a common vision – that design is a brand’s primary to examining and selecting the best medium of communication. Design designs of the year. strengthens a brand’s identity, value and name recognition over time. EPDA Le Klubvendredi Brand Design Le vendredi DBA The CEO of our Warsaw agency après-midi Our Warsaw office is also an active après-midi Our agency in London is a is vice-president of the European est libre member of the Klub Brand Design est libre member of the DBA, a community Brand & Packaging Design SAR which brings together of over 450 design agencies Association (EPDA), the first marketingles pour Dragons & communication pour les Dragons and design-centric companies European network bringing together agencies from Poland. As a member that are concerned with raising Le vendredi designers and design agencies de Le vendredi of the notre agence creation committee of de notre agence Le vendredi trade standards and improving Le vendredi après-midi est libre of international scope. après-midi est libre the white paper on good market après-midi est libre the perception of their industry. après-midi est libre de Paris. practices, she frequently gives de Paris. lectures. 2020 2020 0 2020 0 hr • Get an assessment from the occupational health services on the management of psychosocial risks & societal responsibility musculoskeletal disorders. • Create of a welcome booklet for new Dragons. • Duplicate globally 100 % our Charter on the right to disconnect. • Encourage collaboration with people in rehabilitation and / or with disabilities. • Continue to improve our gender equality index. ENVIRON • Awareness campaign promoting better sorting of waste and better signage. societal responsibility • Transition to 100% LED lighting in Paris. 100 % • Renewal of our car fleet for hybrid vehicles. • Improvement of spaces related to bicycle parking. business • Continue to take environmental factors into account when choosing subcontractors societal responsibility and suppliers with the implementation of a CSR survey. 100 % • As part of the “Dragon Rouge Business Partner Code of Conduct”, implementation of a whistle-blower digital tool. DRAGON ROUGE thank you
