PIONEERING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE: MAKING IT HAPPEN COATS GROUP PLC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT COATS Coats is the world’s leading industrial thread company. Headquartered in the UK, our products are sold in over 100 countries with digital platforms enabling us to serve customers wherever they are located. We give employment to nearly 18,000 people across six continents, and we operate in some 50 countries which provides an unrivalled global footprint. We work with nearly 30,000 apparel and footwear manufacturers and 4,000 retailers and brands globally, as well as with over 7,000 performance materials customers. In 2019, our group revenue was $1,389 million with operating profit of $198 million Revenue ($m)1 2019 1,389 2018 1,415 2017 1,356 Operating Profit ($m)1 2019 198 2018 195 2017 161 HQ 1  Revenue and adjusted operating profit are from continuing operations excluding NA Crafts which Innovation Hub was sold on 20/02/19. In the data in the report Manufacturing site 2018 has been restated to exclude NA Crafts but to include Gotex and Patrick Yarn Mills. Presence About this report Coats Group Plc was extremely proud CONTENTS The information in this report covers to maintain our place in the FTSE4Good 1 Welcome from our the period from 1 January 2019 to Index for the second consecutive year. Group Chief Executive 31 December 2019. Unless otherwise 2 Pioneering a sustainable specified data relates to all operations future owned and controlled by Coats Group 4 Committed to the Plc and joint ventures. UN Global Compact 8 Water Further information about Coats Group 10 Energy Plc, our approach to sustainability and 12 Effluent & Emissions our performance can be found online at 14 Social 19 Being part of our local www.coats.com, including key policies communities available for download. For more go online 20 Living Sustainably 22 Managing Sustainability & We continue to report in line with the Materiality Assessment requirements of the Global Reporting 24 Performance summary Initiative (GRI) and for the second year we have produced an additional tailored index for our investors offering more direct navigation to relevant Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) information of interest to them. www.coats.com/sustainability WELCOME FROM OUR GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE WE HAVE MADE PROGRESS IN THE FIRST YEAR OF OUR STRATEGY, BUT WE RECOGNISE THE SCALE OF THE CHALLENGES AHEAD OF US. Last year I was proud to announce the launch are managing our risks well and seizing the We are also scaling our community investment of Pioneering for a Sustainable Future, our opportunities to be better and to innovate. programmes, offering more focus while new strategy that places sustainability at boosting the impact of our activities through Setting ourselves a bold new strategy the very heart our business, influencing the vital partnerships, the first of which will be last year was the first step. This year I am decisions we make each and every day and announced in 2020. In 2019, 19% of our pleased to announce we have gone further setting out ambitious targets for the next four employees were working in Great Place to and confirmed our participation in and years. I am pleased that we have made good Work or equivalent certified locations, and we commitment to the United Nations Global progress in the last year and the business have continued to strengthen our approach to Compact (UNGC). We are fully committed to now has considerable momentum to its training and development. This includes over the UNGC Principles on Human Rights, Labour, sustainability journey. This report details what 40 diversity and inclusion training modules, the Environment and Anti-Corruption, and will we have achieved so far and our ongoing plus quarterly network calls where we continue to progress the implementation of activities towards our targets and beyond. I discussed progress, shared best practice, and these Principles in our operations and through am happy that, as befits our position in the brought in relevant guest speakers to discuss our supply chain. We have also identified market, we continue to lead our industry in topics relevant to our 18,000 employees the most relevant Sustainable Development addressing the challenges of sustainability. located around the world. Goals (SDGs) to our business operations and For over 250 years Coats has worked closely will continue to ensure that our activities are We have also continued our Journey to with its customers making the threads and contributing towards the achievement of Zero and have seen another improvement materials that literally hold together the these goals. This report combines a broad in our health and safety figures, as well as fabric of our lives. This longevity has been no overview of our sustainability activities with implementing more activities to enhance the accident, as we have continually changed, our first formal Communication on Progress wellbeing and health of employees. adapted and responded to the needs of our (COP) as UNGC participants. As a COP, the One of our most ambitious goals is to make customers and societal changes. And it is vital report describes our actions and performance 100% of our premium polyester products for the future success of our business that we in relation to the Principles and our progress from recycled material by 2024. Although respond again in a robust and positive way to towards our sustainability targets and the we have made progress, this is proving to new challenges. relationship that these bear to the SDGs. be as challenging as we expected, because The world is changing. The effects of climate In 2019 our production levels were slightly although demand for our recycled products change and damage to our planet are lower than in 2018. We have now fully is growing very rapidly, the quantity of good becoming more apparent; the resources we developed our action plans for most of our quality recycled materials available to us is use are becoming scarcer; and we need to targets and so have laid the foundations limited. We are working with partners along find new ways to operate more efficiently on which we can start to accelerate to the supply chain to address this and support and reduce our waste. We need to embrace deliver them over the coming years. As a the development of a more circular supply diversity and difference, using this as a way result we made modest reductions in our chain for textile materials, as we believe that is to innovate and create better products and use of water and energy in the year. We the long-term future for our industry. We will services for our customers around the world. expanded our use of renewables, and are report more on this over the coming year. And we must attract the most talented people getting increasingly knowledgeable about the I am satisfied with the headway we are and build a company of which they can be complexities of this market. We are getting making as we pioneer our sustainable future. proud. If we fail to recognise and respond much more management control of our waste The commitment and enthusiasm of our to these challenges, then we risk our future – a particularly complex area for any textile employees, management teams and partners growth and commercial success. business. We have stepped up our efforts give me huge confidence that the progress to identify areas for improvement in terms I want Coats to be part of the solution, we have made will continue over the next of the efficiency of our plants, continued working with customers and partners, to year as we undertake this vital journey for our our programme of investments in advanced create new ways of working and products business and our stakeholders. effluent treatment facilities and introduced to protect the environment and the fragile real time monitoring of wastewater effluent. world we share. I want us to be recognised Rajiv Sharma I am happy to say that while we recognise that by society as a business with high standards Group Chief Executive progress in 2019 has been modest in some and levels of respect, made up of talented and 10 March 2020 areas, we have laid strong foundations that motivated people supporting the hundreds will allow us to accelerate towards our targets of local communities of which we are a in 2020 and beyond. part. I want our investors to know that we 1 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report PIONEERING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Coats’ new strategy has built on the strong With the launch of our strategy at the beginning of 2019 we have seen huge sustainability foundations laid in the past, support within the organisation at all and has accelerated the company towards levels and very positive feedback from our its ambitious targets. external stakeholders. Overall our targets are challenging and there is much work still to be done, but the preparations done during 2019 will allow us to accelerate in our delivery over the next three years. 2 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report RAW MATERIALS Over 95% of our raw materials are oil based plastic fibres. We are expanding our use of recycled polyester from drinks bottles. Using recycled fibres reduces oil use, extends the life of the polymers and reduces CO2 emissions in the fibres by 40%. SPINNING & TWISTING This process converts the raw fibres into yarns and threads. The process uses a lot of electrical energy, accounting for about 30% of our DYEING total energy use. Good production planning and machine maintenance is key to minimising energy use. This process colours the thread. It is done with hot water and at high pressures. Overall the process accounts for around 60% of our energy use, both as electricity and fossil fuels, and 90% of our water use. Improving processes and using modern machinery is key to COATING & minimising energy and water use. FINISHING Here we apply finishes to the thread and put it onto a sales support. Packaging accounts for about 25% of sales material weight – we are working to reduce this. This process uses about 7% of our energy, mainly as electricity. DISTRIBUTION Most Coats warehouses are located alongside production units. This is because many products are manufactured against customer orders. Distribution from warehouse to customers is normally done by third parties. SEWING Thread is used largely to sew the seams that hold apparel and footwear products together. The volume of thread in the final product is normally very small, <3%. In some countries we have set up systems for collecting and reusing empty cones. 3 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report COMMITTED TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT During 2019, we were delighted to have joined, as a Participant, the UN Global Compact (UNGC). We are fully supportive and committed to the ten principles of the Compact, covering issues around human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are taking an active role in helping extend This report is our first Communication on the UN Principles, which are already embedded in Progress (COP) and we will continue to align our business, and promoting action in both our our Sustainability Report to the COP reporting business and across our supply chain to help deliver obligations of the UNGC in the future. the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Ten Principles and Coats’ policies and examples of activities against them: UNGC ‘Ten Principles’ Coats actions and/or relevant policies HUMAN RIGHTS PR1  Businesses should support • B  iennial Human Rights Risk Assessment repeated 14, 18 and respect the protection in 2019 of internationally proclaimed • N  ew Key People Principles policy published in 2019 14 human rights • S upplier Code update 18 PR2  Make sure that they are not • Supplier code implementation and audits 18 complicit in human right abuses • G  roup Internal Audit audits cover internal 15 compliance • ‘Living wage’ analysis 15 • A  nti-Modern Slavery activities 15 • A  nti -Bribery and corruption training 15 • U  nionisation and collective bargaining performance 16 LABOUR PR3  Businesses should uphold the freedom • U  nionisation and collective bargaining 16 of association and the effective performance recognition of the right to collective bargaining PR4  The elimination of all forms of forced • A  nti-Modern Slavery Training 15 and compulsory labour • S upplier Code and implementation 18 PR5  The effective abolition of child labour • S upplier Code and implementation 18 • G  roup Internal Audit audits 15 PR6  The elimination of discrimination in • D  iversity and inclusion programme 16 respect of employment and occupation • D  iversity statistics 16, 24 ENVIRONMENT PR7  Businesses should support a • C  oats Restricted Substances List 13 precautionary approach to • W  ater stress analysis 8 environmental challenges • E nvironmental policy – www.coats.com/en/ Sustainability/Policies-and-downloads PR8  Undertake initiatives to promote • O  nline system for tracking legislation, permits, 13 greater environmental responsibility incidents and projects • O  nline Monitoring of effluent 13 • A  doption of ZDHC standards 13 • Investment in ETP plants 13 PR9  Encourage the development and • E coverde 20 diffusion of environmentally friendly • T wine 9 technologies • R educing packaging 21 • R enewables 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION PR10 Businesses should work against • Group Internal Audit audits 15 corruption in all its forms, including • Whistleblowing 15 extortion and bribery • Anti-Bribery and corruption training 15 4 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report OUR STRATEGY: PROGRESS AGAINST PIONEERING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE During 2018, we launched our ambitious new strategy for Coats called ‘Pioneering a sustainable future’. This focusses on five priority areas where we can accelerate progress, through targeted investment of capital and resource. One year on, the table below summarises the progress we have made: Pillar Why is this a priority? 2019 highlights UN SDG Target Water is a precious resource and is Our focus in 2019 has been on detailed By 2022, we coming under increasing pressure analysis of water balances by site, focus will reduce globally. Textile manufacturing uses on areas of potential wasteful use and the amount of a lot of water, especially for dyeing exploration of machine and process water used per processes. To ensure that sufficient modifications that will allow us to kilogram of thread water is available for everyone significantly reduce the baseline of water produced by 40% and the natural world, we have to use using our current equipment. All new against our 2018 ensure that we use no more than is dyeing machines are already significantly baseline. WATER necessary and use it as efficiently as more water efficient. 2% reduction possible. Not prioritising this would vs 2018. entail risks for business continuity Page 8 and rising costs. Climate change is a real and We have initiated three pilot projects using By 2022, we aim growing risk for our business, as for advanced digital energy management to be sourcing many others. Reducing our energy systems which will allow us to evaluate renewable energy demand and ensuring that as much in more depth than ever before the wherever that is as possible comes from renewable, opportunities for real-time energy feasible. carbon neutral sources will ensure management. 1% reduction vs 2018. By 2022, achieve that we are contributing to global We have expanded our use of renewable a 7% reduction efforts to combat climate change, energy with a new roof-top solar array in in energy used ENERGY while also reducing our operating Vietnam and are currently working on a per kilogram of costs. long-term agreement in Mexico. We have product made Page 10 also installed a small pilot wind plant in against our 2018 Bangladesh. 32% renewables in 2019. baseline. While we continue to use water We have updated our Coats effluent By 2022, we will in our processes we will generate standards to incorporate the Zero build on Coats effluent. It is essential that any water Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals global standards we return to the environment is (ZDHC) standards, and have continued by complying with properly treated to ensure that there our investment programme in treatment the Zero Discharge is no damage to the watersheds that plants. 63% compliance in 2019. of Hazardous we and our communities rely on. All of our major plants now have Chemicals (ZDHC) automatic monitoring and alert effluent standards. EFFLUENT & systems to ensure that parameters are EMISSIONS continuously achieved. Page 12 We operate across 6 continents with Ethical behaviour underpins everything we By 2022, we employees from over 60 nationalities. do, and is managed through our “Doing the will have ‘Great As our business becomes more right thing” programme. place to work’ or digitally enabled ensuring that We have continued to embed our health, equivalent awards we are able to attract, retain and safety and wellbeing programmes across the for all our key upskill our diverse people becomes organisation. sites. ever more important. High levels By 2022 we aim to of engagement are essential to our We have revised and simplified our policy have all employees SOCIAL performance. structure to make it more transparent. contributing We will be launching pilot community to community projects with a global partner in 2020. activities. Page 14 19% employees working in certified units in 2019. Our products are produced largely We have continued the expansion of our By 2022, we will from synthetic materials that are oil EcoVerde supply and widened the markets reduce our waste based. Because these materials don’t into which we supply it. 1.5% recycled sales percentage by biodegrade, and the raw material in 2019. 25% against our source is finite, we must ensure that We have trained staff globally to use 2018 baseline. we develop towards circularity of use. our new waste management system. By 2024, all our Waste is both a misuse of scarce 6% increase in reported waste in 2019. premium polyester material and a serious loss of value, so threads will be LIVING our focus must be on reducing it, and from 100% SUSTAINABLY then reusing or recycling what we recycled material. cannot prevent. Page 20 5 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report COATS AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Most of the SDGs can be linked to some aspect of our company activity, but we have focussed here on the 7 SDGs that are central to our sustainability strategy and to which we consider that we can make a material impact. Why is this SDG relevant to Coats, what are our opportunities and Our goals and indicators, our UN SDG responsibilities? Our priorities and actions desired outcomes and impact We employ nearly 18,000 people That our employees are able to return Our goal is to have zero incidents for in multiple countries, many of them home safely every day. That their health both workplace and commuting, and developing, and operate in communities is maintained and improves while we measure both of these rates and that often depend on our activities working with us. That we foster the publish them. for their economic wellbeing. Our health of future generations who will be We are planning to work with external business is dependent on having access our future employees. expert partners on health and wellbeing to healthy and motivated employees. Programmes supporting this are programmes aimed at employees and Ensuring the health and wellbeing described in the following sections of communities. of our employees, their families and the report, with page numbers; neighbouring communities is good for our business and good for them. Journey to Zero programme 17 Health programmes 17 Commuting training 17 Partnership programme 18 Accessing the highest quality of Our priority has been to lead our Gender equality at Board and senior employees globally should give us a Diversity and Inclusion network management levels. Ability to attract broadly neutral gender balance at all programme from the very top of the and retain higher skilled employees. levels. At global company levels our organisation. Regular global calls are Increased productivity and greater balance is 41:59 (female:male), and at led by our CEO and with guest internal company competitiveness. senior management levels the ratio is or external speakers on all calls. Board At Board level this has led to an increase 24:76. This indicates that we are not members frequently participate on calls. in female representation from 0% in succeeding yet in fully promoting female Recruitment consultants are routinely 2012 to 33% in 2019 talent throughout the organisation. This instructed to ensure that all short lists is an opportunity for us and we have a At senior management levels our for management posts have female actions have led to an increase from responsibility to our female employees candidates. to further enhance their prospects. 18% in 2012 to 24% in 2019. Our desired outcome is to see both these numbers continue to increase until there is a broad gender balance in the organisation. As a textile dyer we currently use a lot Our principle areas of focus have been Our goals are; of water. Our use of water inevitably on reducing water use in our production • T o reduce our water intensity by 40% reduces the availability for others of processes and on ensuring that our by 2022 (compared to 2018) this fundamental and finite resource. treatment of effluent meets high Our use of it also has the potential to standards. A long term aspiration is to • T o be compliant with ZDHC effluent degrade the quality of water returned to eliminate the use of water in as many of standards by 2022 the environment. Our responsibility is to our processes as is technically feasible. • W e monitor and report on water minimise our use of water, especially in Our programmes supporting these aims recycling also, but we have no areas of high water stress and to ensure are described in the following sections; specific goal for this. that water we have used is returned to Our desired outcome is not to have the environment in a good condition for any harmful impact from our use of use by others. The opportunity we have water on our stakeholders (especially lies in the development of technologies Water reduction activities 8 Communities and the Environment) to reduce, or completely eliminate, our Water recycling 9 reliance on water Development of water-free processes 9 Treatment of effluents 12 6 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report Why is this SDG relevant to Coats, what are our opportunities and Our goals and indicators, our UN SDG responsibilities? Our priorities and actions desired outcomes and impact We use energy mainly for process We have been focussing for several Our goal is to switch to renewable heating and for powering machines. years on decreasing the use of coal energy wherever possible. Evaluation of The former is mainly achieved by in our operations and on developing the scope of what is feasible is ongoing burning fuels to generate steam, while sources of clean renewable electricity because of the complex and rapidly the latter relies mainly on electricity for our plants. changing situation in many national supplied by third parties. Our principal These activities are described in the energy markets, but our intention is to responsibilities are to ensure that following sections; make this target explicit during 2020. we are using cleaner energy in our We are happy to confirm that we have steam boilers and that we source now completed the transition away electricity from sources that use clean from coal. or renewable energy. The opportunity Renewable energy projects 11 we have is to substantially convert our electricity to renewable generation Reduction in coal use 11 sources. We directly employ nearly 18,000 Ensuring that all of our direct employees Our goal is to have all of our key units people and many more are dependent are employed in good conditions and externally certified under the Great Place on our employment. Many of are properly remunerated is a principal to Work scheme by 2022. these are in emerging markets. Our priority. Extending this concern to our Internally, for monitoring compliance responsibilities are to ensure that we tier one suppliers is also a high priority against our policies and standards we and our supply chains are providing for us. rely on the transparency provided by decent work conditions and that one Our activities to support these priorities our global employee data system, our effect of our operations is to promote are described in the following sections; Group Internal Audit checks, and our economic growth for our employees whistleblowing system. and their communities. Our opportunity is to progressively extend decent work We monitor supplier compliance with conditions along our upstream our Supplier Code on a risk based Great Place to Work 15 approach using internal and external supply chain. People principles 14 audits. Living Wage 15 Whistleblowing hotline 15 Group Internal Audit 15 Supplier Code 18 Modern Slavery programme 15 Textile production is currently linear for Our current priorities are to reduce the Our goals are to reduce our internal both natural and synthetic materials. generation of waste in our operations waste by 25% by 2022 and to convert This means that waste is generated and those of our direct customers and all of our premium polyester products during production and products to move our primary raw materials to to recycled raw material by 2024. In become waste at the end of life. Our more sustainable sources. addition we are currently working responsibilities are to ensure that we The actions underpinning these priorities on programmes to introduce more minimise the materials we need to are described in the following sections; sustainable product packaging to reduce produce our products and that we waste potential for our customers. are designing products that are made from the most sustainable material sources. The opportunity we have is Ecoverde 20 to participate in the development of Packaging project 21 circular product lifecycles that enable Waste reduction 20 the continuous recycling of materials. The emissions from our activities Our priorities are to reduce our energy We currently measure Scopes 1 & 2 are a contributor to climate change. use, to shift to lower emission fuels and emissions. We have done some discrete Our responsibility is to ensure that to convert more of our electricity supply Scope 3 element inventories, and are we significantly reduce our energy to renewable sources. reviewing whether to undertake a full requirements and that we use as much The projects behind these priorities are Scope 3 inventory. At the moment we renewable and low carbon energy as described in the following sections of do not have emissions reduction targets, possible the report; although these are implicit in our targets around energy reduction and conversion to renewables. During 2020 we will complete a review of emissions target Energy reduction 10 setting and will decide whether Science Conversion to cleaner fuels 11 Based Targets will be the route that we Renewable energy promotion 11 adopt. 7 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report WATER A vital resource Without water we cannot, today, make thread. Water is predominantly used in our dyeing processes. It either acts as the medium for applying the dyes to our yarns or is used for rinsing and washing yarns before and after dyeing. In addition to water use in our dyeing process, we use steam in processing or for applying curing heat in some coating processes. We recognise the importance of water for our business but also the value of water for the communities in which we operate. In some locations where we operate, water is scarce, and so we have a responsibility to reduce our own consumption and return what we do not need to the environment after suitable treatment. In some cases, this includes recycling the water we extract and reusing it in our manufacturing processes. Taking a risk-based approach To identify those water stressed locations, in 2019 we have undertaken an updated LEADER’S VOICE REDUCING WATER USE water stress analysis using the Aqueduct Water is currently an essential resource in our processes, IN TRADITIONAL DYEING methodology. Overall, our review indicates that 30% of our water demand is in principally for dyeing. We know that increasing global demands MACHINES high or extremely high water stress areas (water stress measures the demand versus on water use for domestic and industrial purposes are likely the availability in an area). This analysis The new generation of dyeing machines are more to make this already precious reinforces the need to ensure that we water efficient than older ones. The intrinsic water resource scarcer in the future, continue our current strategy of reducing efficiency of a machine is measured by the liquor and we therefore take our the water we use, recycling as much as we responsibilities in this area ratio. This is the ratio of water to thread once can and returning it to the environment very seriously. Our approach the machine is filled, and typical older machines in a state where it can be used by others. is to use as little water as we will operate at a ratio of 8:1 while more modern can and to make sure that we With this approach we can help to demachines, can operate at 4.5:1. This is a 44% then recycle as much of that stress water in these locations. At the saving in water for the same output, and is largely water as possible. Periodically moment 70% of our water recycling is achieved by improved design of pumps and we assess the water stress in locations with a medium to extremely level and availability for each pipework. However, while all our new machines high water stress, and decisions on future of our plants, and this informs are low liquor ratio designs, with almost 2000 recycling projects will be informed by stress our investment strategy. We dyeing machines in use, we have a lot of older recognise that this is a shared levels. machines that still have years of life in them. resource and that we must The Aqueduct methodology also assesses ensure that our use does not Our team in Bangladesh have been challenging water depletion which can become an lead to shortages for others. themselves to find ways to achieve lower liquor issue as that will reduce availability (and Our long-term vision is to ratios on old machines without modifying the hence increase the stress). The analysis largely eliminate water from machines themselves. Through a combination of our processes, and we are indicates that only 2% of our demand is in maximising the thread load, optimising the water investing in the development areas of high depletion. level, rationalising flow direction and adjusting the of the technologies that look likely to deliver this goal. In the pump speeds they have managed to reduce the A small number of our units rely on short-term our target for water liquor ratio from 8:1 to 6.5:1, a 19% reduction ground water supply, and we have also reduction is very ambitious in water used. The water saving also impacts on assessed the risk of water table decline for but we believe it is achievable energy use as a lower water volume takes less heat these units. One unit, Faridabad in North through the concerted work of energy to raise it to operating temperatures. India, is in an area of high water table our process engineers across the decline but this is a unit where we have globe. We will be spreading this innovative approach long been aware of water supply issues Michael Schofer across other dyehouses in 2020. and we are already recycling up to 90% Chief Supply Chain Officer of our water in order to minimise our need for fresh water. We will continue to update our water stress review on a regular basis and reassess the risks if need be. Reducing our consumption Our global goal is to reduce our water used per kilogram of thread produced by 40% by 2022 against our 2018 baseline. In 2019, we consumed 7.4 million cubic metres of water, which equates to 90 litres per kilogram of product. This is a 8 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report 2% reduction compared to 2018 and Our sites at Ambas and Faridabad, in MAKING IT HAPPEN! highlights the ambitious nature of our India, have ZLD systems, which has target. Because of changes in scope in our considerably reduced the water sourced 40% REDUCTION IN WATER business (the sale of our North American externally as 77% and 74% respectively INTENSITY (LITRES/KILO) BY 2022 Crafts business and the incorporation of of the water used has been recycled. Gotex and Patrick Yarn Mills), we have Similarly, in Sri Lanka, at our Horana site, Reducing water use requires restated our 2018 baseline to exclude 69% of water was recycled in 2019 with detailed monitoring of actual the former and include the latter, and only 31% going to effluent. consumption at all stages of changed the production basis to finished our operations. The bulk of At Coats Vietnam, we have successfully water use is in our dyeing product to reflect that we have more reduced our water consumption by 42% operations, where it is used proportionately more product that is not as the medium for applying in the last five years, which is equivalent dyed. The graph below has therefore been dyes to fibres and for preand to 310 million litres saved. This was reduced to show like-for-like. Full historical post-dyeing washing stages, achieved by using a combination of data is shown in the data table at the back where necessary. We also use approaches; including a move away from water as the principal source of of the report. underground or hidden pipes susceptible heating (in the form of steam) Water usage (litres per kg of finished to undetected leaks; an investment on in processes that require heat. modern dye machines which utilise lower This includes autoclaving yarn product)1 liquor volume (around 44% reduction to stabilise it, for dyeing and 2018 92 washing, and for the curing of compared to a conventional dye machine); 2019 90 thread coatings. Water is also the implementation of a dyehouse cooling used for humidification purposes water recovery process and through the in spinning and twisting 1 The vertical line shows our target harvesting and recycling of rainwater. operations (in order to improve the behaviour of the fibres In 2019, we have undertaken detailed Eliminating the need for water during processing). Finally, water water balance studies at 31 of our major altogether on our sites is also used for plants, accounting for 62% of our total Our long-term vision is of dyeing processes domestic purposes. Identifying water usage. This includes detailed that are waterless. To help promote the opportunities for reducing assessments at Sevier, Horana, Ambas water consumption starts with development of such processes, in 2018, a water balance that allows and Odorhei. We have also delivered we invested $5 million in Twine, a start-up us to track the use of water five training sessions with colleagues company developing digital yarn dyeing through all the processes on on how to undertake a water balance that uses no water. Twine launched their site. This detailed analysis is best analysis. These studies are now delivering first generation of sampling machines in done with multiple metering projects with savings opportunities. To June 2019, and have supplied their first points in order to get exact help us accelerate our process we intend volumes at all the key stages. operational units to pilot customers. Once we have a detailed water to conduct water balance assessments balance then we can see where in the rest our sites by the end of 2020. Digital fabric dyeing has been around for there is excess consumption This will enable us to identify areas of some years and is beginning to supply and which processes are open improvement and target our resources substantial volumes across the textile to modification in order to into those projects that enable the most supply chain. However the challenges of reduce water use. Most chosen significant water saving projects. yarn dyeing are much greater for several solutions can be applied reasons. Firstly, the three dimensional across all of our units that Of the water we used, over 24% was nature of yarn (which needs to be dyed on have the same processes, but recycled and reused (up from 20% we also look out for unique all surfaces), is very different to the large opportunities on a site. At the in 2018). Of the remaining amount flat surfaces that are the substrate for same time as we are looking for required 52% was sourced from the local fabric dyeing. Secondly, the physical scale ways to reduce the water in use, environment and 48% was supplied from of a yarn (which typically has a diameter we are also looking for ways to municipal sources. that is well below a millimetre), requires recycle more water so that we very precise control of the flow of dyes can use it multiple times in our Recycled water (% of water used in processes and hence reduce and very accurate application systems. processing that has been recycled) even further our need to use Finally, getting acceptable productivity, fresh water. 2015 4 and hence low processing costs, when 2016 8 dyeing single yarns (where it might be Stephen Cox necessary to dye 10 or more kilometres Group 2017 11 Manufacturing of yarn to produce a single kilogramme Director 2018 20 of yarn requires high running speeds and 2019 24 reliable and automated processes. Utilizing new technology Twine have focussed on addressing all We continually seek to improve the these issues, and have made substantial efficiency and competitiveness of our progress. We are planning to undertake manufacturing sites, especially around running trials with their technology during our dyeing processes. Technologies such 2020 so that we can start to plan the as reverse osmosis improve the quality of implementation across our operations. We water we use, giving us alternatives to expect that as the technology matures it using water from municipal supply and/ will not only benefit our processing, but or helping us achieve a high level of water will have a significant impact across many recovery from process effluent. In addition, other parts of the textile industry. It is also some of our sites have implemented Zero worth noting that, while we are focussed Liquid Discharge (ZLD) systems, whereby on the water benefits here, digital dyeing the remaining effluent is dried to make for will also reduce process energy use easier disposal of the residue. significantly and will eliminate the need for many chemicals in the dyeing process. 9 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report ENERGY Less energy and more efficiency BUILDING NEW In 2019, we used 770 million kWh of LEADER’S VOICE RENEWABLE energy (electricity and fossil fuels) to manufacture our products. This equates to The risks associated with climate change continue to grow and CAPACITY IN a reduction of 3% in total energy compared the window of opportunity for reducing damaging global VIETNAM to last year. Our energy use per unit of production has also reduced to 9.3 kWh per warming is closing. While we have considered aspects of kg of production, (2018: 9.4 kWh per kg). climate change risk discretely, In 2019 we have completed the first This is a reduction of 1% vs 2018. we now regard climate change phase of a long-term Power Purchase as a unitary Emerging Risk As for water, we have restated 2018 to which is reviewed at Board level. Agreement (PPA) for electricity generated provide like-for-like comparison with We are also looking closely at from photovoltaic panels. The agreement 2019. Full historical data is shown in the how we can report progress was signed in July and the first phase was data table. transparently and in line with completed and switched on in October. the recommendations of the These panels are installed on many of the Task Force on Climate Related Graph Energy Use (kWh per kg of roof areas in our Ho Chi Minh City plant. Financial Disclosures, Addressing finished product)1 Phase 2 of the project will be undertaken energy consumption and the 2018 9.4 sources of energy used in our in 2020 using the roof area of the new 2019 9.3 business are therefore very high effluent treatment plant that is currently priorities for us. being built on that site. 1 The vertical line shows our target Having done a lot in terms of The full array will have a capacity of 1mW, reducing energy use in prior Over the last twelve months we have years we need now to focus and the first phase is slightly more than on real-time optimisation of half of that (553 kW). The agreement will continued to invest in new technology and demand and will be running run for 20 years and we anticipate that processes, and stepped up our focus on pilot programmes for this it will reduce our CO2 emissions by 850 energy efficiency, finding ways to improve in 2020. We have made tonnes/year. our productivity whilst reducing our significant progress in 2019 on energy use. Over the last 2 years we have renewable energy, with a new This project has been exemplary in terms of undertaken detailed energy audits onsite solar array in Vietnam the speed and efficiency of the installation At each of those sites we are working on and negotiations underway in and start-up and has shown that in the right other locations. We have been tailored energy saving plans, most of which progressively transitioning off circumstances it is possible to complete such will be implemented in 2020. These include coal as a fuel source, and this projects in a very short timeframe. energy saving opportunities ranging was completed during 2019. from increasing metering, to equipment While climate change is a major replacement to optimise energy savings, to driver for our energy strategy, new waste heat recovery processes. it is also very important in terms of cost management as At the end of 2019, we had our first energy is a major cost driver in pilot site certified to ISO 50001. This is our processes. Clearly reducing the international standard for Energy energy consumption generates a Management Systems, created by direct benefit, and we have also found, so far, that transitioning the International Organisation for to renewable energy can be done Standardisation. The standard specifies without a negative cost impact. the requirements for establishing, Kevin Finn implementing, maintaining and President, Business Operations improving an energy management system and continual improvement of energy performance, including energy efficiency, energy security, energy use and consumption. 10 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report And these efforts are paying dividends, in Just under a third of the energy we use Our emissions intensity, measured in Mexico, following a recent energy audit, we comes from renewable energy sources. kilograms per kilogram of production, identified 24 energy conservation measures Our assessment has shown that we went down by 3% compared to 2018; totalling potential savings of 32% of the could significantly increase this, and we 3.3 kg CO2e per kg compared to 3.4 in total energy use. The top 4 measures have are evaluating potential targets over the 2018. Again, we have restated 2018 to been implemented, which included boilers coming months. make for a like-for-like comparison. These optimisation, improving chilled water pump calculations are done on a location basis. We have several rooftop solar arrays requirements, reducing the pressure for now operating on Coats sites and most We have been progressively eliminating compressed air provision, and avoiding of these are through long term PPA the use of coal in our factories. In 2011 using large well pumps during peak arrangements. We are finding this to coal accounted for 3% of our direct demand periods. be a very effective way to establish new energy use and for 2019 overall this had In Bangladesh, two of our sites focussed renewable energy capacity rapidly and been reduced to 0.4%, with coal use on heat waste recovery processes both are evaluating potential partners in a being terminated by the end of the year. from the boilers’ exhausts and from the number of countries. We have also found water jackets of the gas generators. Both that there can be unexpected hurdles, Greenhouse gases per unit of production sites saw a reduction in energy used, one especially in markets that are liberalising (kg CO2e per kg finished product) site successfully reduced their fossil fuel their energy markets. In Mexico we 2018 3.4 use by 12% whilst the other was able to were quite advanced in discussions on 2019 3.3 reduce their energy use intensity from 5.36 a large off-site wind energy PPA when kWh per kg of thread to 4.71 kWh per kg. an unexpected change in approach by the government effectively halted the Investment in renewable energy project. We are currently working on a Over the past year, in line with our new project proposal for Mexico, and also intention to be using renewable exploring projects in India and Indonesia. energy whenever that is possible, we have continued to both review the We have adopted a diversified approach opportunities to install renewable energy that enables us to be flexible depending on generation facilities on and off our sites the type of renewable technology available. and purchase those Renewable Energy For example, at our Tamil Nadu site in India, Certificates (RECs). we have chosen a solar plant. This plant provides 3.7% of the energy we need for both our sites in Ambas and Madurai, approx. 150 kWh per day. Another 90% of MAKING IT HAPPEN! the energy we need comes from renewable MAKING IT HAPPEN! energy generated offsite and is provided SOURCING RENEWABLE by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. In 7% REDUCTION IN ENERGY WHERE the coming years, we are aiming to add ENERGY INTENSITY POSSIBLE (KWH/KILO) BY 2022 another 750 kWh to our solar plant here. Our target is to increase our We are also proposing to increase the Having an Energy Management use of renewable energy mainly System (EnMS) in place is the use of biofuel in our sites alongside through projects with suppliers basic requirement for taking a where we contract with them entering more long-term Power Purchase structured approach to achieving the creation of new renewable Agreements (PPAs) for onsite and offsite energy efficiencies. We have generation capacity, through long generation of renewable energy. a programme to progressively term purchase commitments. In implement an EnMS aligned this way we are able to ensure Renewable energy (% of total energy to ISO 50001 in all of our key that the renewable energy we used in the year)¹ manufacturing sites over the next are using is additional new 3 years. This programme is based capacity and hence actively 2015 27 on the work that we have already contributes to de-carbonising 2016 29 undertaken in our Romanian energy supplies. The renewable plant, which has been developing 2017 30 energy market is developing very a comprehensive system over the rapidly at the moment, and there 2018 32 last 18 months, with considerable is some variation in the quality of 2019 32 success. Through the EnMS and suppliers, so it is important that with more meters strategically we do a lot of due diligence on ¹Not all of this energy is underpinned by Renewable located in plants, we will identify Energy Certificates or other Green Attributes. We will the partners that we are working all the significant energy users be reporting on the basis of certified renewable energy with, and that our contractual from 2020 in our plants and develop the terms ensure that we have any options for optimising energy rights to Renewable Energy use in those processes. At the Reducing our Greenhouse Gas Certificates or other equivalent same time we are continuing attributes. emissions to implement the opportunities As a significant user of energy, climate that were identified from the Frank Hoffmann change and our emissions of greenhouse energy audits that were done Global gases (GHGs) are a key concern for us. in 2018. These energy audits Procurement were useful in highlighting Director Indirect In 2019, the total carbon footprint of some opportunities, but are a Spend and our operations (Scopes 1 and 2) was 275 snapshot assessment and are not Digitisation thousand tonnes. This is a 5% decrease as effective as having continuous compared to 2018 on a like-for-like basis. management of actual energy We have reduced the energy we use and demands. continued our transition to renewables sources. Paul Prendergast Global Environmental Manager 11 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report EFFLUENT & EMISSIONS LEADER’S VOICE We have long taken a precautionary approach to the environment. This was the reason we developed and started to implement our own global effluent standards in 2011, as we recognised that simply complying with national effluent standards was not enough. Since then legislative limits around the world have been progressively tightening and in some locations have superseded our global standards. Complying with government standards is always a given for us, and continues to be a driver ZERO LIQUID DISCHARGE AT of our investment plans, but AMBASAMUDRAM we still believe that wherever we operate the environment is equally precious and that we must therefore apply global In 2019, we completed the implementation of a very significant Zero standards to our operations. Liquid Discharge (ZLD) system at our largest site in India at Ambasamudram, For this reason we have now Tamil Nadu. adopted the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals standards This site consumes approximately 3,500 tonnes of water per day, which as our global standards. This previously was treated and discharged into the environment. To achieve zero allows us to continue to be a liquid discharge, the existing wastewater treatment plant was modified to leader within our industry and to work to a set of commonly incorporate new cutting-edge technology, including ultrafiltration, reverse accepted standards that did not osmosis and multi-effect evaporators. As a result around 95% of the water exist in the past. entering the treatment plant is returned for reuse in the factory and the A huge step forward has also remaining 5% is evaporated to leave a solid waste, which is used as a been the implementation of cement additive by a local cement company. The steam required for the online monitoring of effluent new evaporators is generated using biomass, ensuring carbon neutrality to ensure that our treatment for this process. plants are operating within limits 100% of the time. In February 2019, we successfully closed down our treated wastewater Stuart Morgan discharge channel in a ceremony witnessed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Chief Legal & Risk Officer and Control Board. Group Company Secretary 12 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report Maintaining high standards through a As an unexpected benefit, the new continuous approach sensors also allowed us to see spikes in Our long-term vision is to stop using suspended solids when the power supply water for dyeing. But there is currently no was re-established after a power cut. technology available at industrial level to Recognising this trend enabled us make achieve that goal. So, while we continue some key adjustments to stop those spikes to use aqueous technology, our diligent from happening at the start up. In 2020, and continuous approach helps to avoid additional sensors will be employed, any negative impacts on the environment including a new conductivity probe in from our wastewater. Chittagong in Bangladesh. Of the water used in 2019, 62% was Over the past five years, we have spent discharged as waste effluent (down over $13 million on new effluent treatment 9% from 2018). Any effluent that we plants and related technology and this discharge needs to comply with local spend will continue. During 2019, two new legislation and discharge limits and meet wastewater treatment plants came into our internal global effluent policy, which service in Honduras and in Mexico. now incorporates ZDHC standards (see Zero Discharge of Hazardous below). This policy has been developed to Chemicals (ZDHC) ensure that all our operations, regardless In 2016, we signed up to the Zero of location, will meet a high standard Discharge of Hazardous Chemical (ZDHC) in terms of the effluent they discharge. programme, which aims to unify efforts During 2019 we have established an to eliminate hazardous chemicals from online and dynamic register of legislative the global footwear and textile supply MAKING IT HAPPEN! changes in all the countries that we chain. Launched by six leading brands, operate in which includes control of MEETING ZERO the ZDHC programme has since grown operational permits, incident reporting DISCHARGE OF to 30 signatory brands, 114 value chain HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS and control of improvement projects. affiliates and 21 associates. Coats is a EFFLUENT STANDARDS To improve monitoring of our wastewater value-chain affiliate. BY 2022 discharges and ensure continuous In 2019, we adopted the ZDHC Our aim is to progressively compliance, new sensors have been conventional parameters with foundational reduce the use of chemicals installed in the final discharge point of limits as our Coats internal standards across in our processes. The very 12 sites, including all sites where treated comprehensive Coats Restricted all our direct discharge sites. This applies wastewater is released directly into the Substances List system that to all sites, including those that are not environment, giving immediate feedback we have had in place now part of the apparel and footwear supply on parameters that would normally for 15 years and which at chain. We aim to have all units meeting least aligns with the tightest take up to five days to test in laboratory. the ZDHC standards by 2022. As of the requirements from any of These sensors monitor the quality of end of 2019, over 60% of our effluent was our customers has been effluent discharges every 30 seconds instrumental in ensuring that compliant with ZDHC standards, putting measuring against five criteria, including we have reduced or eliminated us on track to meet our target. The ZDHC temperature, pH, biological oxygen hazardous chemicals from our standards have been extended to include demand, chemical oxygen demand and operations. The Zero Discharge sludge analysis and we will be assessing of Hazardous Chemicals total suspended solids. The data is sent to this change and addressing compliance for system is a very welcome next a ‘real-time’ dashboard and if the levels sludge during 2020. step as it will drive improved of any of the parameters gets close to or chemical management across exceed a limit, the operational team will the supply chain, and we are be notified immediately. This enables us delighted to be participants in to respond rapidly to mitigate any issues the programme. Our approach and provides the detailed information we essentially rests on three need to investigate the root cause of the pillars; tight control of input chemicals, appropriate design issue, remedy the situation and ensure no future incidences take place. During 2019 ONLINE MONITORING of effluent treatment plants and continuous automated we also ran a successful pilot in Shenzhen OF KEY EFFLUENT monitoring so that we can be whereby, if target parameters for online confident that our effluent tests are in danger of breach, the PARAMETERS AND treatment plants are always discharge valve is closed and the treated AUTOMATIC VALVES TO functioning optimally. effluent is routed back to the start of the treatment process. This process will be PREVENT DISCHARGE Eric MacDonald Head of Insurance, implemented in other units during 2020. WHEN PARAMETERS Property, Product and Environmental ARE BREACHED ARE Safety KEY TO BUILDING RESILIENCE IN EFFLUENT TREATMENT PLANTS. 13 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report SOCIAL High ethical standards Underpinning all of our sustainability effort is a deep commitment to running our business in an ethical, responsible and transparent way. We expect our employees and our suppliers to behave ethically in all their dealings relating to our business. Our employees are core to the business, and we value them highly. Their leadership, talent and commitment ensure we remain leaders in our sector, are competitive in the marketplace, and operate our businesses effectively and efficiently. In return, we offer a safe, respectful and inclusive environment in which our employees can thrive. BUILDING A MORE DIVERSE AND Similarly, as a supplier of yarns, threads, INCLUSIVE BUSINESS IN SRI LANKA zips and related products to a range of manufacturing industries and retailers, we play a key role in the industry supply For many years after operations commenced there in 1981 the bulk of our chain. As such, one of our responsibilities employees in Sri Lanka were men. Attempts to change this had previously is the maintenance of high environmental faltered on cultural and organisational barriers. By 2015 only 4.5% of and social standards within the supply employees, and only 3% of shop floor employees were women, with none chain. working on production machines. A new campaign was started in 2015. A We support the UN Guiding Principles on number of structural and organisational changes were made to ensure that Business and Human Rights throughout women felt comfortable and supported working in production environments. our operations. Underpinned by our global Initially the changes provoked some resistance from existing employees and policies, we uphold the requirements of unions, but through dialogue and training and a focus on the need to provide the UN Declaration of Human Rights and employment opportunities to women for the benefit of all, this resistance was the Convention on the Rights of the Child, rapidly turned into full support for the programme. the core ILO Conventions and the OECD In 2016 the first women started operating production machines, and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. working on all three shifts and there has been steady progress since then. Every two years we update our Human Initially women were integrated into winding operations, and in 2019 this Rights Risk Assessment and this was done was extended to operating dyeing machines, and there are now women in 2019. We use a range of external data representatives on the company H&S committee also. The percentage of sources to identify country risk levels and women employees has risen to 16% and 18% of shop floor operators are then we weight the risk by our employee now women. Importantly this progress is not limited to factory roles; in 2015 numbers by country. Our 2019 assessment there were no women in the field sales team and now it is 40% women, and shows a marginal (4%) reduction in the 25% of executive roles are now held by women, up from 8% in 2015. weighted risk compared to our 2017 assessment. This change is not enough This shows that rapid progress in gender diversity can be achieved with a clear to warrant any change in our strategy programme and full management support. or actions. The risk assessment helps us to ensure that we can focus activities where the risks are highest. Also in 2019, to improve the transparency of our employment practices we have introduced an overarching People Principles policy which is available along with other policies at https://www.coats.com/en/ Sustainability/Policies-and-downloads 14 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report Our Group Internal Audit team are a This year, through our global ‘Doing the key resource for policing our internal right thing’ programme, we ran several compliance with employment and human Compliance, Controls and Culture rights standards. Included in their audit Workshops. These workshops, led by scope are 30 human resource audit areas members of the senior leadership team and many of these focus on compliance were used as an opportunity to share with policies or directly with Human real life experiences. In 2019, more Rights issues. They normally complete than 600 employees participated in the 10-15 audits per year (10 in 2019), and 10 sessions held at various Coats sites areas of non-compliance, if found, are located in Brazil, Bangladesh, Mexico, rigorously addressed. Honduras and India. These workshops will continue in 2020. We continue to actively During 2019 we initiated a detailed LEADER’S VOICE promote our Whistleblowing Hotline assessment of our global remuneration Our recently completed biennial through numerous ways and the number polices against ‘living wage’ Materiality Assessment has of incidents reported in 2019 increased highlighted the increasing methodologies. During 2020 this work to 119 (99 in 2018). All reports are fully importance of Social issues, will continue, building our approach to investigated and the number that have with talent attraction and ensure our remuneration policies are retention, training, engagement been upheld has reduced from 39% in globally consistent and align with ‘living and employment conditions 2018 to 30% (provisionally) in 2019. This wage’ concepts. all increasing markedly in means an absolute reduction in detected importance. This is a clear Our global Ethics Code, Business Code of infringements. Group Internal Audit also reflection on the key role Conduct, Supplier Code and our raft of look at a range of corruption issues during that skilled and motivated their audits and identified 3 minor policy policies covering the full range of ethics employees play as our business becomes more digitally enabled. and compliance issues set out what we infringements in audits during 2019, none expect from our employees, our suppliers of which were evidence of corruption. The foundations that we have laid over many years and and our partners. We uphold the aims ‘Great Place to Work’ which underpin our strong of the California Transparency in Supply We aspire to have all of our key units engagement levels are robust Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern and remain at the core of certified as a Great Place to Work® Slavery Act 2015 and publish a statement what we do, and our new (GPTW) or equivalent awards. We are on our website on what we are doing to functional structure is enabling focussing on getting GPTW certification prevent modern slavery in our business us to be agile and globally for our top 16 countries, which account consistent in developing and and supply chains. (https://www.coats. for approximately 85% of our workforce. supporting our people with the com/en/Modern-Slavery-Act-Statement) We should successfully have certified all capabilities, skills and mindset that they need to prosper in an In early 2019 we launched an internal those sites by 2022. Those certified will increasingly fast moving and training programme on Modern Slavery. then be reviewed every two years. complex environment. The purpose of this was to inform In 2019, so far, we have 19% of our We are a hugely diverse employees about the profile of modern employees working in a GPTW, or organisation, employing over slavery in industrial environments, equivalent, certified location, which puts 60 nationalities around the to highlight the areas of risk in our globe and speaking many us on track to meet our target. operations and to help people identify languages. While that diversity the signals and to guide them on the Continuously listening to our people enriches the business in many tangible and cultural action to take if they have any concerns. Consistent with the cultural oversight ways, it is the development By the end of 2019 over 3800 employees and direction coming from our Board, opportunities that the company have undertaken the training and it it is important we continue to provide can offer to employees from is now a mandatory training module opportunities to listen to our people. many backgrounds, and for new starters in roles for which it is which mean that we have Over the last eight years, we carried appropriate. over 30 nationalities in our out an annual global employee senior management group, As the training cycle is biennial, in 2019 engagement survey. In 2019, we decided that underpin our employee only new starters or those moving into to enhance our approach moving engagement and performance. new positions were required to undertake towards a ‘continuous listening’ model Monica McKee our compliance training modules (Antiwhich will include a series of digitally Chief Human Resources Officer Bribery, Ethics and Competition Law), so enabled pulse surveys for every stage slightly over 300 people completed the of the employee experience. This will three training courses. In addition, all enable us to track real-time results so senior and customer facing employees we can make immediate corrections (more than 3,700) were required to and improvement where we need to. self-certify their continued compliance to This year we held three pulse surveys our Ethics Code in 2019. New, updated on key areas of employee engagement compliance training packages will be – Health and Safety, Communications, released for completion by all relevant and Ethics and Compliance. In the employees in 2020. H&S survey the results continued the 15 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report SOCIAL positive progress from previous years, #BalanceforBetter. On the occasion, we Attracting talent and enabling them with 99% of units recording results asked our teams to consider which local to grow above the benchmark industry average actions could have the capability to be It is important to Coats that we harness and 62% of units improving their score rolled out globally for more impact. We’ve and nurture the best talent amongst our from the previous year. In the case of had a high level of engagement from our workforce and provide them with the skills the Communications survey, 95% of employees, and events took place globally and opportunities to succeed. In 2019, we respondents confirmed they get effective in 28 countries and with a great degree of reviewed and refreshed our Recruitment communication while 85% felt that they involvement online. Policy and guidelines to help us retain our get enough communication. Regarding best people and acquire specialist talent. We have continued to run unit-level D&I the Ethics and Compliance survey 95% As part of the update, we reconfirmed our resource groups to share best practice. of respondents confirmed that they were commitment to diverse candidate pools This year, we particularly focused on trained and motivated to deal effectively and refreshed our new process for sharing building out our flexible working initiatives with workplace ethics and compliance roles internally to make open roles more both globally and locally through our challenges. visible and support employees in their cluster D&I groups. career development. We actively support employees who In 2019, our Digital and Technology wish to join labour unions. 43% of our We also continued to embrace the digital function has started its own focus employees are members of a labour union age and to leverage the power of growth effort to encourage more women to and 43% of our workforce are subject to mindset across our business. To support enter the world of technology. Through collective bargaining agreements. Both of this, our ‘SuccessFactors’ tool, launched actions including mentoring and closer these rates have increased substantially in in 2018, has given us better visibility of partnerships with recruitment agencies, 2019 due to the inclusion of sites in China our talent pool globally, and insights on our ‘Women in Tech’ programme is where union membership and collective talent utilisation, requirements, attraction, starting to break down the myths often bargaining have been implemented. development and retention. Building on associated with working in technology. this in 2019, we have started to articulate Promoting a diverse and inclusive We have also started to engage with a clearer message on career development, workforce external organisations who are known to moving away from linear career paths It is important for us to create a respectful have well established D&I programmes. towards more modern career paths and inclusive environment, and we As part of approach to D&I, we aim to designed around learning experiences strive to be an organisation in which regularly measure our demographics that focus on the importance of gaining a our employees come from diverse to track progress and establish talent set of key experiences to build necessary background. We want our employees to acceleration programmes to develop capabilities towards a key organisational feel valued, respected and supported, and female, multicultural and millennial leaders role. for the right conditions to be in place for of the future. In 2019, the percentage of everyone to be confident and authentic To embrace the digital age, we have females at board level increased by 3% at work. also been working in partnership with to 33%, and the percentage of females the Neuro Leadership Institute to deliver Coats employs people from 60 countries at senior levels increased by 1% to 24%. growth mindset training to our employees. and we had 31 nationalities represented in This will continue to be an area of focus In 2019, we delivered this training to over our senior management group (2018: 32). in 2020. 100 employees who have responded In the last year, we rolled out and assessed positively to the training and provided 40 Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) training Gender diversity (%) very positive feedback, with 80% of modules, and around 400 people have participants feeling better prepared to completed the unconscious bias training. 24% 33% embrace a growth mindset after having Our D&I network continues to grow. We 41% taken the training. It will be rolled out continued to have our quarterly network systematically to more people during 2020. calls where we discussed progress, shared best practice, and brought in relevant We also added ‘Learning zones’ to our inguest people. We’ve had over 200 people house portfolio of training in 2019. These joining those calls with a gender split that 76% are delivered both virtually and face to 67% is generally about 50:50. In March 2019, 59% face to allow as many people as possible we marked International Women’s Day to benefit from them. These sessions across our business, using the theme Female covered 10 different topics, including an Male introduction to our refreshed Leadership All Senior Board Capability Framework (LCF), interviewing employees managers 16 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report and coaching skills. More than 1,000 safety and wellbeing, taking place in people attended these sessions in 2019. more than 24 countries and over 200 HEALTH & SAFETY The refreshed framework is centred conversations on our enterprise social around four capabilities; innovating with networking tool Yammer. Following REMAINS OUR the customers through disruptive thinking, from the success of this week, we will TOP PRIORITY digital and data to drive sustainable be organising these once a year from value; collaborating to connect and share now on. AND OUR FOCUS learnings and create value together for In 2019, we also provided 29 hours ON DEVELOPING One Coats; energising for change to drive of safety training per employee, a 2% outcomes and shape Coats for the future; A PROACTIVE and developing diverse talent to build a increase on 2018, including extensive NEBOSH and IOSH training. 9 of our sites SAFETY CULTURE IS robust talent pipeline. are also accredited to the international BEARING FRUIT. We have continued to roll out our H&S standard OHSAS 18001 and 3 of our Transcend leadership programme, sites have upgraded their accreditation to targeted at our senior managers which the international ISO 45001 standard. aims at developing the essential leadership Our aim is to have implemented ISO competences that will drive success for 45001 to all our sites by 2025. Coats in the coming years. This includes With all the above focus on accident MAKING IT HAPPEN! topics such as coaching, digital learning, prevention, we are very pleased to see case studies and peer learning, and also “GREAT PLACE TO WORK” strong progress in terms of the ‘lagging’ innovative use of social networking. Over OR EQUIVALENT AWARDS incident rates. There were no fatalities FOR ALL OUR KEY SITES the last two years, 29% of participants within our business in 2019 and there BY 2022 were women, 44 employees have was a 24% reduction in the number of graduated from the programme and, recordable incidents and a 20% reduction We have worked with Great of those, 47% have started new or Place to Work® (GPTW) for some in the number of lost time incidents expanded roles. years in Brazil and with HR Asia during the year. This led to a 19% in Vietnam, and have found In support of our continual learning reduction in the work-related recordable their approach to workplace imperative, our online learning platform, injury rate, from 0.62 to 0.50. assurance to be rigorous and Minerva, continues to be a popular way insightful, and where feasible While we understand that we cannot for our employees to develop their skills we intend to work with them control every aspect of our employees’ to validate all of our major and capabilities. commute to work, we take safe employment locations. Our Health, Safety and well-being: commuting very seriously and we have certification programme will spread across 16 units over the our number one priority also been working actively to help next three years to ensure that In 2018, we launched our ‘Journey to our employees reduce the number of around 85% of our employees Zero’ strategy, which provides a clear commuting to work incidences across are in units that have external roadmap for the long-term approach all of our sites. In 2019, we delivered validation. The benefits of to health and safety. It focuses on the driving lessons, defensive driving training working with a recognised identification and management of risk, and driver awareness training to equip provider with a reasonably global footprint, like GPTW, is taking a much more proactive approach our employees with the skills they need that we can ensure that the to safety management and placing more to reduce their risks. As a result of this same criteria are being used emphasis on ‘leading’ indicators rather increased focus we have improved the in assessments in different than ‘lagging’ indicators. In other words, reliability of our reporting in this area and countries, while also being able with our approach, we are targeting the the number of incidents reported to us to draw on their skills in terms root of potential health and safety risks has increased from 96 in 2018 to 114 in of assessing our company-wide performance and identifying and addressing them hopefully before any 2019. In 2020 we will continue to invest areas for improvement. injuries ever happen. in making the journey to and from work safer for our employees. Quyen Le In 2019, we rolled out our digital incident HR Business reporting tool ‘Intelex’, including a mobile Over recent years, we have placed greater Partner, Vietnam version that allows employees to spot and emphasis on health and wellbeing and Cluster immediately report anything of concern have introduced several programmes as soon as they observe it. Supported by across the business. This year, we have the use of these tools we developed over again increased our activity in this area. 46,000 improvement action plans and For example, in Vietnam, China and increased the rate of ‘near miss’ reporting India, we have included health checks for by 36%. our employees; in Brazil and China we offered various, healthy eating and fitness We also held the inaugural ‘Journey to activities. We aim to continue to build Zero’ week, our first ever global week of both proactive health monitoring and events dedicated to Health and Safety. healthy lifestyle programmes across all The week generated great levels of our sites in 2020. engagement with activities about health, 17 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report SOCIAL Responsibility in our supply chain Our success in the marketplace relies Being a part of the communities where we operate on responsible behaviour and good At Coats, we always try to be an corporate citizenship. Therefore, it is active corporate citizen and encourage vital that our relationship with business our teams to engage with their local partners and suppliers is aligned with communities in ways that best suits them both our business principles and our and the circumstances. We recognise sustainability approach. the prosperity of our business is closely aligned to the health and well-being of Our Supplier Code, updated in 2018 and the communities in which we live and due for update again in 2020, outlines work. This is why we have a specific the issues we engaged our suppliers and target to get all our employees involved partners on. It covers labour practices, in community activities by 2022. including specific requirements around human trafficking, forced and bonded In 2019, to strengthen our approach labour, environmental management, to community engagement we started responsible sourcing of materials/products to align all our local and global actions and business conduct more generally. toward three areas of focus: ‘Education’; To engage with them, we have a due ‘Health & Wellbeing’ and actions related MAKING IT HAPPEN! diligence and review protocol for our to our ‘Business and Textiles’. procurement teams to use when assessing ALL EMPLOYEES During 2019, we ran well over 400 supplier credentials. To build on the CONTRIBUTING TO activities in 19 different countries opportunity for collaborative work with COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES worldwide. We have been developing BY 2022 our suppliers we have initiated in 2019 improved tracking mechanisms to be able a programme that seeks to ensure that to more accurately identify the level of Our target is to substantially their sustainability activities are aligned increase the number of our input activity for these projects, and will with ours. This will lead to much greater colleagues who are involved be able to give more accurate information transparency on impacts along the whole in community engagement for 2020. supply chain and will make it much easier projects while also increasing the level of beneficial impact for us to start building a full Life Cycle Measuring the impact of our community that these have on our Assessment for our products and to activities has always been challenging for surrounding communities. This quantify the upstream Scope 3 emissions us, as it is for other organisations, and we means increasing the number attached to our purchased materials. We are also conscious that we are not experts of projects that we undertake, will continue to develop this programme in identifying needs and developing broadening the opportunities for in 2020. solutions, so we have been working our employees to get involved and also targeting more precisely during 2019 to develop global partnership Our human rights risk assessment, the projects to meet community relationships with organisations that mentioned earlier, also helps us identify needs and delivering impact. To do have this expertise. We are looking achieve this we have expanded the areas of highest risk in our supply forward to launching the first such the scope of our programmes chain, initially on a geographic basis. We partnership in 2020 with the aim being to to cover three pillars; Education, also assess our supply chains to identify Health & Wellbeing and Business run pilot projects during 2020 and then industry/ sectoral risks as well as risks & Textiles. We have been to extend the partnership more widely in from their geographical location, and working towards establishing subsequent years. will be revisiting this assessment in early global external partnerships to ensure that we maximise the 2020 based on the latest geographic impact of our activities and can review. Based on this assessment, we measure the results, and we are have a programme of engagement with planning to launch the first pilot suppliers, providing support and guidance projects with an external partner on our expectations and compliance with in 2020. our Supplier Code. This includes face to Ialis Iorio face workshops and supplier audits for HR Business ‘high risk’ suppliers. Partner, South America 18 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report BEING PART OF OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES Coats Bangladesh partnered with Brands to help paint the building of a school for underprivileged children, and distribute educational accessories to the pupils. In Romania, 38 Coats employees took part in the annual ‘Run for It’ charity sporting event, running a combined 470km in total to raise money for local Coats Ambas organised a half day community projects. free health care camp offering an eye check-up as well as on the spot blood sugar and blood pressure tests to more than 100 people in the local community. In celebration of “Tree Day” in Brazil, the South America Cluster took joint action to promote the importance of reforestation to increase biodiversity, through lectures and tree seedling donations. The Coats Shenzhen Volunteer Team were awarded the ‘2019 Excellent Volunteer Team’ award by the local Fuhai Community. Children of our employees at the Coats Bursa crèche presented Rajiv Sharma with a gift made from threads, yarns and zips manufactured in Coats Bursa. Team Members at the Sevier Plant in Marion, North Carolina donated 40 blankets to the Friendship Home for Women and Children. The Friendship Home opened in 1999 and can shelter up to 41 women and children to help them get back on their feet socially, financially and spiritually. 19 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report LIVING SUSTAINABLY Generating less waste, and recycling USING PREMIUM more QUALITY SUSTAINABLE In 2018, we rolled out a new waste management system across the business. MATERIALS TO MAKE This required each manufacturing site to OUR THREADS identify their source of waste, develop a detailed action plan to reduce this waste, and put in place processes to collect data LEADER’S VOICE We launched our premium recycled polyester and monitor performance. To strengthen We are largely a plastics products in early 2019. These are Epic EcoVerde the system, in 2019, we have implemented company, with polyester our and Gramax EcoVerde. More product types will be a global standard approach to waste principal product material, categorisation, adopting the European added as we develop more fibre and filament types. and with current technology Demand has been strong, consistently outstripping Union’s Waste Framework Directive and the options that it likely to continue for the foreseeable future. our supply. We have been working very closely with European Waste Catalogue. Training across Our products are engineered our upstream supply chain partners to ensure that all our sites is underway. to have a life span of many as more high quality material becomes available years. In most cases the seams In 2019, we generated 12.5 thousand we can continue to increase the availability of our tonnes of waste, including all elements made using our threads will products. of our own waste even if they can still be in good condition at the end of a garment’s life. Over the course of the year we have gone from subsequently be recovered by reprocessing. That is a good use for a highly This is a 2% increase against our 2018 a rate of about 0.5% of sales of these brands to engineered plastic material, but 3.6% and expect to continue this strong growth in figures. This small increase is driven by it is important for us to think beyond that single, extended 2020 as we have new supply scheduled to come on the improved reporting put in place in lifecycle as the polymers stream during the year. 2019 and we are in the process of trying used in our threads can be to restate 2018 data to provide a true used virtually indefinitely. The like-for-like comparison. With a more challenge we, and the textile RECYCLED POLYESTER SALES comprehensive measurement of waste industry in general, face is how now in place we are able to identify to achieve repeated circular recycling of our products. The 4.0% more clearly the areas of opportunity for hurdles are both technical 3.5% substantial reductions, and will be working and organisational, spanning 3.0% on these during 2020. complex supply chains. We 2.5% must continue to work in Of our waste generated, we reused 2.0% collaborative partnerships or recycled 71% (73% in 2018), for to establish this circularity. 1.5% example the majority of cotton waste Meanwhile we continue to 1.0 extracted during the early stages of develop our EcoVerde products 0.5% fibre preparation is used in lower grade which use recycled materials from other industries to 0.0% J F M A M J J A S O N D products by other companies, and 67% of produce high quality threads, our units send zero waste to landfill. Our thus giving a second lifecycle to actions for 2020 will focus on reducing these polymers. packaging material waste, especially Our focus on waste is crucial from our suppliers, as well as identifying as it reduces the amount of and addressing the major product waste material we need to make generation points in our plants. our threads. Waste is both an excess use of resources and a Using fewer, better raw materials loss of value. In 2019, we used over 102 thousand Adrian Elliott tonnes of direct raw materials. 95% President, Apparel and Footwear of our products are made from plastic materials that are derived from oil and 5% are made from cotton. Oil-based materials are used in our wide range of products, from our industrial threads to our more specialised threads 20 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report such as FireFly, meta-aramid sewing thread Towards circularity In terms of supports this is currently recommended for protective garments, The majority of our products are made focussed on the recovery and reuse threads for automotive industry, medically from synthetic oil-based polymers. of supports. This is a more sustainable approved threads, and many more. Our We recognise that these resources are option than recycling. We are incentivising cotton derived thread remains a small finite. Clearly, it is vital that we use customers to collect used supports with proportion of our product portfolio. these materials in the most efficient way a nominal payment for returned material Having said that, we understand the social possible, looking at both reducing and and we then clean and reuse those that and environmental risks associated with reusing our waste, as well as continuously are in good condition and the rest are this supply chain, which is why we are assessing alternative raw materials that sent for recycling. Since we started this supportive of the key global partnerships might be more sustainable solutions. pilot, in 2017, we have reused 7.6 million trying to address these risks, including the cones (105 tonnes), and recycled another At Coats, we believe that considering Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), and have 2.4 million (33 tonnes). We are finding the large amount of plastics used in long had restrictions in place to prevent that customers often use the income from the textile industry, the best strategic the use of cotton sourced from areas returned cones for community purposes, direction for the industry is to replace of high social or environmental risk like which is an added bonus. virgin plastics with recycled ones. At the Uzbekistan and Xinjiang. moment, the limited amount of recycled Our approach to sleeves is to work with Although we have very few product lines material we use comes from polyethylene customers to see if we can remove that are derived from animal sources terephthalate (PET) beverage bottles. them entirely from at least some of our (limited to wool products that account This is a good short-term approach; products. The main purposes of the for 0.01% of our sales), we understand however, we are limited by the amount sleeves are to protect the packages in the importance of ensuring that these are of PET bottle material available on the transit and to keep the thread clean when sourced responsibly. This is why we have a market as this material is in high demand in storage in the customer’s premises. We specific policy on Animal Welfare. across different industries. We expect have been trialling the removal of sleeves that availability of this material is unlikely for dark colours, and from early results this to grow much beyond the current level, looks like a viable option. We are now also MAKING IT HAPPEN! which accounts for about 15% of global looking at replacing the synthetic material REDUCE OUR WASTE textile feedstock. used for these sleeves with a compostable BY 25% BY 2022 biopolymer material so that for the colours Given this, it makes sense for us to explore that still need protection we can provide a Essentially there are two types other options and to work with others to more sustainable option. of waste that we generate; develop technologies that would enable planned waste and unplanned circular reprocessing of plastic textile We will continue to develop these trials waste. Planned waste is that products at the end of life back into during 2020 and look to broaden the which we know that we are new textiles, this is not yet viable on an geographic scope for them. going to generate as part of industrial scale, but, many companies like our normal operations. This includes packaging materials us are working on tackling this challenge. that we receive with our raw At Coats, we will continue to develop our materials and short staple MAKING IT HAPPEN! cotton fibres and leaf matter high-quality recycled polyester from PET that we extract from raw cotton bottles and aim to meet our 2024 target ALL PREMIUM QUALITY before we can prepare it for to have all our premium polyester threads POLYESTER THREADS TO spinning. Unplanned waste is made with 100% recycled material. In BE RECYCLED BY 2024 created when optimal process 2019, 1.5% of our premium polyester sales parameters are breached or Premium quality recycled were from recycled material. Our demand polyester chip supply is currently when residual material is left in a process which cannot has increased rapidly as multiple customers very limited. Existing recycling be processed. For both types are looking to switch to recycled materials technology means that the only of waste our approach is and by the end of the year the sales of source of material we can use to rigorously document, recycled materials were running at 3.6%. comes from recycled PET bottles categorise, and determine that have been processed the root cause of the waste Working with our customers through rigorously controlled generation and then to follow Our Sri Lanka business has been working sorting processes. Even if the a standard hierarchy whereby collection rate increases and as our test-bed for new and more we seek to prevent the waste the bottle sorting and recycling sustainable approaches to product systems improve there will being generated, followed by packaging. Our thread product packaging never be an adequate supply minimisation, reuse, recycling and finally disposal by the most has three core elements; the support on from this source on its own. suitable means. When dealing which the thread is wound, a protective Chemical recycling of textile with planned waste we consider sleeve over the wound package, and the materials to produce new high our raw materials specifications quality textiles is the likely cartons in which a number of packages and work with our suppliers solution, but the technology for are stored and transported. Currently this is still at a pilot plant stage to seek the best approach to the support and the sleeve are made of development. Our objective packaging. We also look at our own product specifications with from synthetic plastic materials while the is to strengthen our links a view to minimising waste cartons are made from cardboard. In 2019, directly to the chip producers so generation for our customers. globally, we used 7,100 tonnes of plastic that we can work closely with them on increasing the supply in supports, 1,400 tonnes of polyethylene Chris Dearing while also ensuring that we get sleeves and 10,900 tonnes of cardboard access to material while there Group Manufacturing packaging. Where possible we already use are shortages. Technology recycled materials for our packaging, but Director in Sri Lanka we are now trying to redesign, Eng Soon Teoh Global in collaboration with our customers, Procurement our approach to packaging. Director, Raw Materials, Apparel & Footwear 21 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Materiality reflects the changing nature of our provided by our “Pioneering a Sustainable We update our materiality assessment on business and the stakeholders with whom Future” strategy. In broad groupings a biennial basis. we work most closely. This grouping also we have seen a marked upgrading of aligns with the stakeholders identified in Social issues, especially those related In 2019, we identified 69 issues to review our Annual Report. to employee attraction and retention, and map (up from 66 in 2017). This year training and engagement. The range of we added ‘Fair Pay’ ‘Profit Sharing’ and This process allows us to rank these Environmental issues has also increased ‘Animal Testing’ to our list. We evaluated issues by level of importance to both our slightly. While we have seen a slight each issue against its relevance to Coats’ business and stakeholders. downgrading of Governance issues at the three commercial goals (i.e. Profitable Comparing our 2017 and 2019 top of the list, more specific issues have Sales Growth, Increased Productivity and assessments there have been a number of been replaced by more generic ones, and Value Delivery) and their importance to changes in terms of the list of key issues. we interpret this as a recognition of the each of our key Stakeholder groups (i.e. In part these reflect the new balance in maturing of our governance policies and Employees, Customers, Shareholders, our stakeholder grouping, but changes to procedures. the Environment, Communities and our business profile and to the external Suppliers). Our stakeholder groups The graph below shows the top 23 issues environment also have had a clear impact. were updated from those used in the for 2019 with the axes representing We have also seen a tightening of the previous assessments which focussed relevance to Coats goals (x) and alignment of issues with our commercial on Shareholders, Customers, NGOs, importance to stakeholders (y) goals, which reflects the clarity of direction Regulators and Consumers. This change 2019 TOP 23 ISSUES 22 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report The table below compares the top We have reviewed our sustainability Our key stakeholders include our material issues in 2019 against the 2017 strategy in the light of the changes to employees, our customers –the apparel assessment our materiality assessment and have and footwear industry and brands that concluded that the strategy continues buy or specify our threads and our Top Material Issues Ranking to address the right issues and that the performance materials customers– our 2019 2017 targets continue to be appropriate. We shareholders, the environment in general, Environmental compliance Water will continue to review this over the life the communities in which we live in and Environmental footprint Energy of the strategy. our suppliers. Talent attraction Environmental footprint Energy Waste Governance and management Each of these stakeholders places Water Health & Safety Sustainability is one of the foundations different expectations upon our business. Business ethics Resource scarcity Materials Child labour guiding all that we do. It is not a siloed This is why we endeavour to connect Waste Forced labour activity and the delivery of our strategy with our stakeholders across many Employee engagement Transparency & reporting demands the participation and support different channels at both global and Brand management Environmental compliance Stakeholder engagement Economic environment of the whole organisation. It needs to local level. Our stakeholders and the way Profit sharing Legal compliance be woven through our business and we engage with them is described in Employment standards Consumer health & safety incorporated into every decision we more detail on our website www.coats. Circularity Anti-competition Life cycle Data protection & privacy make. com/sustainability. Child labour Materials Forced labour Modern slavery Sustainability is regularly on the Board Supply chain labour Bribery & corruption agenda and is championed by our Group Health & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Chief Executive and the whole Group Training Stakeholder engagement Supply chain footprint Supply chain labour Executive Team (GET). The Group Chief Product compliance Economic impact Executive, supported by the GET has the Modern slavery Local community ultimate responsibility for setting the direction, monitoring the performance and the long-term success of our sustainability programme. The delivery of our strategy is managed by our Head of Sustainability who is responsible for the management of our Sustainability Delivery Team (SDT). This team is sponsored by the Chief Supply Chain Officer, the Chief HR LEADER’S VOICE Officer, and the President of Apparel & LEADER’S VOICE Our sustainability strategy Footwear, all GET members, and brings Our sustainability track involves everyone at Coats together colleagues from across the record, and ambitious future in one way or another, and business to provide the right mix of targets we have set ourselves, our formal sustainability is also very important to experience and expertise to continue management structure our shareholders and other described here is really just the implementation of our strategy in financial stakeholders. They the tip of an iceberg. We are an efficient and effective manner. The understand the critical need fortunate that a culture of SDT meets regularly and creates distinct to do business “the right sustainability has been part of subgroups to focus on specific projects way” from a corporate social Coats from the very start – for when needed. responsibility standpoint, as example the original factory well as the commercial benefits in Paisley in the 19th century Stakeholder engagement this can deliver. Global financial had a free company school Recognising and understanding institutions are increasingly for employees where they making Environmental, Social & our stakeholders and their opinions could spend half their working Governance (ESG) performance week furthering their general continues to play an important part by corporates, and commitment education – and therefore in our business strategy and our to progress in this area, at the building support and alignment approach to sustainability. Engaging and forefront of their investment for sustainability projects has communicating with them helps us to decisions and we expect this never been difficult. However identify issues of importance and helps trend to continue. the extensive work leading In June 2019, Coats hosted us to determine the right response. up to the development of our its first ESG focused investor sustainability strategy and event which was held at the action plans has led to a much London Stock Exchange. On wider recognition internally and this occasion, we presented our throughout our supply chain of sustainability strategy along the key issues we face and has with our ambitious 2022 targets strengthened our commitment and covered the manufacturing to address them vigorously and processes used at Coats and through collaborative action. the progress made to date. Andrew Morgan Our investor event is described Head of Sustainability in more detail on our website; https://www.coats.com/en/ Investors/ Results/2019/InvestorEvent---ESG/ESG-Article Rob Mann Head of Investor Relations 23 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Indicator Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 restated1 WATER Managing a precious resource wisely Total water used Million cubic metres 8.3 8.3 8.2 8.0 7.9 7.7 7.4 Water intensity (dyed product) Litres per kg 127 121 118 112 109 92 90 product % of major plants where detailed water 2 29 balance studies were conducted % of recycled and reused % 2% 4% 8% 11% 20% 20% 24% % of water from municipal supply % 41% 39% 36% 37% 37% 36% 36% % of water from ground water sources % 27% 26% 27% 24% 23% 24% 21% % water from natural watercourses % 30% 30% 28% 28% 20% 20% 18% and reservoirs ENERGY Renewables for a sustainable future Total energy used in manufacturing Million kWh 858 833 829 823 810 792 770 Non-renewable electricity used % 31% 32% 30% 29% 28% 29% 31% Natural gas used % 33% 33% 35% 34% 35% 33% 32% Oil used % 11% 6% 6% 7% 5% 5% 5% Coal used % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Renewable energy used % 25% 29% 29% 30% 31% 32% 32% Energy intensity kWh per kg 13.2 12.2 11.9 11.5 11.2 9.4 9.3 dyed product No of sites with detailed energy 20 surveys conducted % of plants who have implemented 1 ISO 50001 EFFLUENT & EMISSIONS Working for a cleaner world % of water discharged as waste effluent % 87% 80% 79% 77% 68% 68% 62% Environmental prosecutions No 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 % of effluent compliant with ZDHC % 63% Money spent on new effluent treatment Million $ 3.4 0.9 1.6 2.2 3.6 3.6 4.6 plants and technology Total carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2) Thousand tonnes 322 305 319 311 302 288 275 CO2e Emissions volume intensity CO2e kg per kg 4.9 4.5 4.6 4.3 4.2 3.4 3.3 of product Emissions value intensity Tonnes CO2e/$m 210 208 219 206 196 204 198 sales 1  018 data has been restated without NA Crafts, with Gotex and Patrick Yarn Mills and with finished 2 goods output basis to help with like for like comparisons to 2019 2 2018 accident statistics have been marginally restated because of the analysis lag on some incidents 3 Headcount includes JV operations so the numbers don’t reconcile exactly the statutory headcount in the Annual Report 24 Coats Group Plc 2019 Sustainability Report Indicator Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 restated1 SOCIAL Safe and sustainable workplaces and communities Headcount3 19,204 18,985 19,079 19,419 18,802 18,239 17,725 % female employees % 40% 41% 40% 41% 39% 39% 41% % female senior managers % 19% 19% 21% 22% 23% 23% 24% % female board members % 12.5% 11.1% 22.2% 30% 30% 30% 33% Employee engagement score % 81% 83 83 83 83 NA Amount of safety training Hours of training 28 29 per employee Sites accredited OHSAS 18001 standard No of sites 9 Sites accredited ISO 45001 standard No of sites 3 Near Misses reported 1,485 1,900 Hazards reported 41,583 39,471 Improvement Actions completed 41,034 46,377 Incident rate Injuries per 100 FTE – – 0.56 0.56 0.622 0.50 Number of recordable incidents No 163 163 178 134 Average lost days per reportable incident Days per incident – – 12.4 14.7 10.0 2 12.3 Lost days caused by work related accidents No of days – – 2,015 2,320 1,778 1,650 Work related fatalities No 0 0 0 1 0 0 Health & safety prosecutions No 0 0 0 0 0 0 Commuting incident rate Commuting injuries 0.33 0.42 per 100 FTE Number of commuting incidents No 96 114 % workforce with ‘Great Place to Work’ % workforce 19% or equivalent certification Permanent employees subject to a % – – – 38% 36% 37% 43% collective agreement Permanent employees that are % – – – 34% 37% 38% 43% members of a union Diversity in employees No of nationalities 68 63 63 60 Diversity in senior management No of nationalities 43 32 32 31 represented LIVING SUSTAINABLY Protecting our planet Total waste generated Tonnes – – – – 12,000 12,232 12,450 % total material waste % 9% 9% % of premium polyester sales from 1.5% recycled material Reused or recycled waste % of waste generated 73% 71% % of units sending zero waste to landfill % 67% Total materials purchased by Coats Tonnes 132,694 136,249 146,394 138,589 144,318 136,705 142,398 Materials used in Coats products Tonnes 87,002 90,444 95,261 93,268 97,370 91,431 102,287 OTHER Senior employees and those with externally headcount 4,000+ 4,500+ 4,500+ 4,500+ 4,000+ 4,000+ 4,000+ facing roles who have successfully completed compliance training Number of different colours dyed Thousand 156 164 162 171 174 174 176 Number of dye batches produced Million 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.8 Direct economic value generated and distributed $ million 1,033 1,558 1,459 1,501 1,543 1,417 1,396 % economic value distributed to suppliers % 65% 65% 63% 61% 62% 62% 60% FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY www.coats.com/sustainability Head of Sustainability 4 Longwalk Road Stockley Park Uxbridge Middlesex UB11 1FE T: +44(0) 20 8210 5000 F: +44(0) 20 8210 5025 communications@coats.com PASF/SD/1 March
