Sustainability Report 2019 Index 03 Message from the CEO 42 Ethical and responsible management How to use this document 05 We are AES Tietê MENU 06 20 years of energy innovation 47 Customer satisfaction Navigate through the top menu to the chapters of your interest 09 History made by people 12 2019 in numbers 51 Energy intelligence ARROWS 52 Innovations and new technologies Navigate page by page using the 15 Governance and strategy 53 Boosting startups arrows in the upper right corner 19 Our strategy 23 Sustainability Guidelines 54 Accessibility HOME Click this icon to return to the index 27 Business model 56 Socio-environmental impact PRINT 34 Economic and operational 69 Annexes to the Report Use this shortcut to print PDF content performance 70 Complement to GRI disclosures 75 GRI content index Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Message Climate change and its different levels of impact on global society, although not fully known, have become the major Each year, we have materialized this strategy. In 2019, the closing of long-term partnerships with two large from the CEO concern of humanity in the 21st century. Preventing the customers – Unipar Carbocloro and Anglo American – planet’s average temperature from rising above 2 °C is a enabled the start of the project to build the Tucano Wind priority and requires unprecedented innovations so that we Complex, in the interior of Bahia. The new asset will add can completely replace fossil fuels and continue to serve the another 582 MW to our company’s installed capacity and increasing demand for energy that we need. Our company, 55% of the energy is already contracted through these AES Tietê, completed 20 years of operations in the Brazilian two partnerships. electricity sector with the clarity that we are an important The year was also marked by the entry into operation of part of the solution to this challenge. the Ouroeste Solar Complex, which joined the Guaimbê Issues related to climate risks, in 2019, entered the Solar Complex, opened in 2018. The recent addition of agenda of the main business forums in the world and gained these photovoltaic plants to AES Tietê’s portfolio expands important space in the financial and economic discussions the diversification of sources and is important, together and in risk management. The Business Roundtable, with the Alto Sertão II Wind Complex, to reduce the association that brings together executives from the company’s exposure to hydrological risk. largest companies in the United States, addressed the issue In addition to this factor, the new solar plants in a manifesto signed by 181 executives, including AES contributed to the positive result we achieved in 2019. Corporation CEO Andres Gluski. The Global Risk Report, Combining a cutting-edge commercial strategy with released at the 2020 edition of the Davos Forum, also excellent asset management, we achieved a gross revenue highlighted the priority of the topic. of BRL 2.3 billion and a growth of 4.2% in net profit. Our business is based entirely on the generation of energy from renewable sources and the growth of the portfolio directly implies in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We are part of AES Corporation, one of the largest groups in the world in the energy sector and which In 2019, we started the operations trusts our company to expand investments in wind farms of the Ouroeste Solar Complex and and solar complexes in Brazil. To achieve this growth, we work closely with customers to offer complete solutions enabled the start of the project to that meet all their electricity needs safely, efficiently, build the Tucano Wind Complex, reliably and sustainably. relevant to the diversification of our renewable sources assets 3 GRI 102-14 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Our strategy is focused on customer satisfaction and We started the year 2020 prepared to take innovation to offer new energy products and solutions. advantage of the opportunities that will arise with Business growth meets the increasing demand of Brazilian the return of economic growth in the country. We companies for sustainability and efficiency gains in their are committed to participating in this development production chains, which is confirmed by the consistent with the delivery of renewable and sustainable growth of the free market. energy to Brazil. As sustainability is at the base of our business model, Thank you all, managing the economic, social and environmental impacts Ítalo Freitas generated by our operations is essential. In this sense, in CEO of AES Tietê 2019, we revisited our policies, practices and processes related to this theme and structured the Sustainability Guidelines, which have six pillars and commitments for performance aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and the principles of the Global Compact. I emphasize the personal honor of having been chosen by Rede Brasil do Pacto Global to participate in the “Leadership with ImPact” initiative, as one of the spokespersons for SDG 7 – Affordable & Clean Energy. Our 20-year history was written by the various professionals in our company. The intense digitalization of business has not diminished the importance of people in the course of operations and in the management of our assets. The new work tools only strengthen the capacity to innovate and seek disruptive solutions to complex problems that only the human being, the greatest creative force on the planet, has. For this reason, attention to the safety of people in our company is an absolute priority and our greatest value. We have highly effective protocols and procedures to mitigate risks and avoid accidents with employees, service providers and the community surrounding our operations, but only constant vigilance and the continuous reinforcement of our culture lead us to operate safely. 4 GRI 102-14 We are AES Tietê Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 20 years of energy innovation Since the turn of the millennium, the world has changed – a lot. Back in the day, the Internet was still a new feature for companies and people, and no one imagined that smartphone apps would be as useful and versatile as today. Digitization and connectivity have created a universe of possibilities, and have brought more knowledge and information so that we can make better choices for our daily lives. In the electricity sector, this paradigm shift has repositioned the center of decisions. The context of combating climate change and the search for more efficient and cleaner ways to produce and consume energy have driven companies’ demand for innovative solutions, technology and traceability of their energy matrix. We, at AES Tietê, have followed this transformation and evolved our business model to be prepared for the new challenges of the 21st century. We have gone from being a hydroelectric power plant manager, born in 1999 from the acquisition of assets from the state government of São Paulo, to a partner of intelligent and innovative solutions – ensuring sustainability and competitiveness for our clients in their energy management. 6 GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-6 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 With a portfolio exclusively focused in renewable sources, we invested in a generator park composed of hydroelectric, wind and solar power plants with 3,343 MW of total installed capacity. Excellence in our operations is guaranteed by the use Our assets of cutting-edge technologies in our Power Generation Operations Center (COGE), 1 wind complex at Bahia which remotely controls all units. In a complementary way, in recent years we have developed a set of customized solutions for our clients, with intelligence and innovation so that our performance drives increasingly sustainable business Grande River in all sectors we serve. This portfolio of value offering to the market ranges from open market services and renewable energy traceability certificates to energy Pardo River management and efficiency projects, battery storage and distributed generation. Bauru Mogi Rio Mogi Guaçu Guaçu River Tietê Rio TietêRiver São Paulo Headquarters 9 hydroelectric plants and 3 SHPs*, in addition to 2 solar complexes Hydoelectric generation with locks in São Paulo Hydroelectric generation without locks Wind generation Solar generation *Small hydroelectric plants Corporate offices 7 GRI 102-2 | 102-3 | 102-4 | 102-6 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Our trajectory We achieve important certifications for The company is business, such as selected for the first ISO 55001, for asset time for the Corporate management. We Sustainability Index innovate with the use of We complete the (ISE) of the current aerial and underwater acquisition of the AES Corporation B3. The portfolio drones for the inspection We review our Guaimbê Solar acquires Tietê Power selects the companies of reservoirs and begin strategy and begin the Complex, the first large Generation Company, that have the best the remote operation transformation of our photovoltaic generation which belonged to the performance and adopt of the Bariri lock, one of business model to offer plant in the state of state government of the best practices those that are part of the services and solutions São Paulo. The asset São Paulo, and this is in sustainability Tietê-Paraná waterway in energy focused on added 150 MW to our how our company, management and and allow commercial meeting the demands and portfolio, diversifying AES Tietê, is created. governance. navigation. needs of customers. the generating sources. 1999 2007 2011-2014 2016 2018 2000 2010 2015 2017 2019 Our company Dedicated to the End of the bilateral We acquire the We complete the construction becomes a joint management energy purchase contract Alto Sertão II Wind of the Ouroeste Solar Complex, stock company of hydroelectric with Eletropaulo (current Complex and begin the adding 144 MW to the and goes public generation assets Enel), which ensured the process of portfolio company’s installed capacity. on the São Paulo located in the contracting of almost diversification. We also AES Tietê also signs new Stock Exchange. state of São Paulo, all hydroelectric power. open the new Power partnerships and enters into an The company is we begin the With the end of this Generation Operations option-to-purchase agreement currently listed on construction of agreement, we begin the Center (COGE), in the for 582 MW of greenfield wind Level 2 of corporate small hydroelectric execution of our strategy municipality of Bauru projects in Bahia – the Tucano governance of B3 plants (PCHs) in the Unregulated (State of São Paulo), with Wind Complex. Currently, the S.A. – Brasil, Bolsa e São Joaquim and Contracting Environment. cutting-edge technologies company has already guaranteed Balcão. São José, on Rio and innovation for the commercialization of 55% Jaguari-Mirim. remote and centralized of the energy to be generated management of all assets. by this project through two long-term contracts. 8 GRI 102-10 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 History made by people The achievements we have made in AES Tietê’s efficient. We are always looking for innovations 20-year history are the result of our employees’ that make a difference in business and in the lives dedication and capacity for accomplishment. We are of those we serve. a team of 448 people who work to build and solidify a new culture and a new way of commercializing energy, putting our client at the center of the To this end, we created an area focused on management and processes, responsible for Squads: a new decisions we make and the processes we execute. the continuous improvement and the PMO way of facing CLIC is the name of the program to disseminate (Project Management Office). This structure provides support and acts as a facilitator in the challenges our corporate culture formed by three pillars – intermediation of actions and projects, focused Customer focus is a pillar of our culture Clients, Innovation and Collaboration. Our business on the main objectives of the corporate strategy, that has driven the structuring of a new model is geared to generate value and satisfy our as well as the methodology and governance of working model among our teams in 2019. customers. To do so, we work with collaborative and projects. We started to adopt the squads model to multidisciplinary processes, to be more agile and develop customized solutions, with agility and quality. In this model, we bring together Employees distribution by age group professionals with different specialties 75 448 and skills, for a brief period, in a working group whose mission is to model a new 93 approach to complex challenges related 186 to the supply and management of energy for our clients. Two such projects were conducted in 2019 and resulted in more 94 attractive and customized proposals. Up to Between Between Over 51 Total 30 31 and 40 41 and 50 9 GRI 102-8 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Leadership The “Leadership Diagnosis” project was another From this deep analysis, we structured the Leadership development action carried out in 2019 that strengthens the pillars of CLIC in our culture. For one year, we conducted a Development Trail. The program addresses specific themes for each leadership level (coordinators, managers quantitative and qualitative survey involving managers and directors) and outlines paths for the professional and of all functional levels and thus identified what personal improvement of leaders, placing them in the competencies future leaders should have to direct role of inducers for the development of their teams. our company towards strategic objectives. We also evaluated the results of climate surveys conducted The Trail is composed of practical, social and formal with our employees, suggestions from governance learning and each of these stages has courses and committees, benchmarking and trend analysis training plans in e-learning formats and face-to-face for the energy sector. meetings. The tool integrates AES University, which concentrates the training programs of our employees focused on the technical and professional development of the entire team. Average hours of training per employee 2019 2018 2017 By gender Men 46.93 38.39 47.25 Women 15.35 10.73 8.17 By functional level Executive Board 7.64 0.64 0.27 Management 25.50 14.15 21.20 Coordination 22.66 21.03 26.00 Administrative 23.22 14.37 46.13 Operational 65.74 55.85 38.13 CONSOLIDATED 39.24 31.93 39.03 10 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 The leaders are expected to complete Our annual employee performance Blocks of the annual performance the Development Trail in a maximum period evaluation cycle is divided into three blocks. evaluation cycle of eight months, starting in 2020. At the end This platform allows to monitor the deliveries of this cycle, our business model is expected made and the achievement of individual to be strengthened with leaders capable of goals established in the first phase, when the directing their teams’ efforts towards achieving Management Contract is built – a tool we use to HIRING GOALS strategic objectives. align the performance of the leaders with Occurs at the beginning of the year. the company’s strategic objectives. The individual goals are contracted In the last year, due to this greater investment and formalized in the Management Contract. in leadership training, the average number of In addition to the leaders, all other employees hours of training for our directors and managers participate in the Program, with the exception 360º EVALUATION doubled compared to 2018. In general terms, the of apprentices, professionals hired for less than the process has a developmental training actions for our employees grew by 22.9% three months and those who, due to leave focus and occurs at the end of the on the same basis of comparison, reflecting (medical leave), were unable to work for at least first semester of each year the increase in the training of professionals three consecutive months in the last year. hired in 2018 and who began their professional PERFORMANCE development cycle. EVALUATION occurs at the end of the year and closes the cycle with the equalization committees and feedback Employees evaluated by the 2019 Performance Management Program By gender Men 94.10% Women 88.07% By functional level Executive Board 100.00% Management 91.67% Coordination 93.75% Administrative 89.47% Operational 95.93% CONSOLIDATED 92.63% 11 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 2019 in numbers BRL 2.3 billion 9 hydroelectric in gross operating power plants 1 Wind revenue complex 3 small 4.2% growth in net hydroelectric income plants BRL 342.8 million of investments in modernization, 12,542.5 GWh maintenance and of net energy production 2 Solar expansion complexes 3,343 MW of installed capacity 448 employees BRL 2.5 million invested in 1,165 social programs third party service providers 12 GRI 102-7 | EU1 | EU2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Total installed capacity in Net energy production 2019 (MW) by source (GWh) Solar Solar 0 Solar 393.5 Solar Wind 88 Wind 299* 1,541 1,606.3 Wind Wind 386 1,541 Hydroelectric Hydroelectric Hydroelectric BY SOURCE 11,260 9,029 10,542.7 Hydroelectric 2,658 *Includes 5MW of distributed generation (DG) 2017 2018 2019 Regulated market 605 BY REGULATORY REGIME Free market* 2,738 *Includes 5MW of distributed generation (DG) 13 GRI EU1 | EU2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Awards and recognitions Our company We were elected We won for the fifth We occupied We were We were recognized by was selected to as one of the “150 consecutive year the the 325th included in investors and market be part of the Best Companies Transparency Trophy position in the EXAME Best analysts in the Latin 2020 portfolio to Work For”, and granted by the National “Valor 1000” and Biggest America Executive Team of the Corporate included in the Association of Finance, ranking and EXAME survey, promoted by the Sustainability Great Place to Administration and Sustainability Institutional Investor Index (ISE) in 2020 Work ranking Accounting Executives Guide portal (Anefac) We were recognized by the National Asset Management Award, granted by EGAESE, in the categories: • 1st place in the Strategic Management • 2nd place in Regulatory Impacts category: • 2nd place in the Technology and Innovation category: Incorporation of new solutions in Civil Asset Management as Support to category: Use of ROV technology in the management of the operation of physical Regulatory Processes for Dam Safety the management of critical assets of assets Hydroelectric Plants • 2nd place in the Strategic Management • 1st place in the Technology and Innovation category: Budget Planning – Use of Risk, • 3rd place in the asset life cycle analysis category: Use of statistical tools and drones Performance and Cost Parameters for category: Support and diagnosis center to improve the performance of the solar plant Project Composition and Prioritization for – Technological tools for diagnosis Budget Cycles and support for remote operation and maintenance 14 GRI 103-3 Governance and strategy Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Governance and strategy We have a corporate governance structure companies in the energy sector and which stand that relies on internal and market policies and out in the return and remuneration to investors. regulations to guide strategic investment decisions, We are a publicly traded company business growth and value creation for all Our parent company, AES Corporation, plays listed on B3 S.A., the São Paulo stakeholders interacting with our company. a relevant role as an inducer of the investment Stock Exchange. The Company’s strategy and capital allocation in renewable energy units are traded on B3 S.A.’s The good governance practices that we assets in Brazil. The company, one of the largest Corporate Governance Level 2 voluntarily adopt ensure transparency in the in the world in the energy sector and present in 14 under the TIET11 code, with each relationship with all Brazilian and foreign countries in the segments of energy generation, unit consisting of 4 preferred shareholders and investors. The decision-making distribution and storage, contributes to the shares and 1 common share issued processes follow objective criteria and seek to evolution of our business through its experience in by the Company. In addition, direct our company towards sustainable growth, the sector and the long-term vision for achieving the Company also has American observing the demands of customers and society results. With 28.41% of our social capital, Depositary Receipts (ADRs) traded for respect for ethics, human rights, the fight BNDESPar, a subsidiary of the National Bank for on the North American overagainst corruption and the search for a cleaner and Economic and Social Development (BNDES) is the-counter market (AESTY) at renewable energy matrix. another important shareholder of the company. parity between the ADRs and the The recognition of our commitment to With regard to corporate governance bodies, the Company’s shares at the rate of responsible business management is evidenced highest level of decision-making power lies with one ADR to one unit. by AES Tietê’s presence, since 2007, in the B3 the shareholders, organized in General Assemblies, Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), which brings in which the members of the Board of Directors together companies with best practices in corporate and the Fiscal Council are elected. Among other sustainability. We are also present in the Electricity duties, the General Assemblies also approve the Index (IEE) and the Dividend Index (IDIV), which financial statements and proposals for social cover, respectively, the most representative capital increase. To learn more see our corporate organization chart on the Investor Relations website. 16 GRI 102-5 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors The Board of Directors is composed of members appointed by our parent company Fiscal Council and minority shareholders, in addition to The Shareholders’ Agreement of our a representative elected by the company’s company determines that, each fiscal year, employees. The body, composed of 11 effective the parent company requests the installation Shareholders’ members, is responsible for defining the strategic of the Fiscal Council. The operation of Meeting guidelines that impact our business and for the body is governed by the Bylaws and evaluating the economic, social and environmental the legislation in force, and its actions are results that we obtain through our activities. directed towards the inspection of the AES Tietê’s Fiscal administrative management of the company. governance Council The Board of Directors is supported by two structure advisory committees, made up of members Composed by five members, the Fiscal who are specialists in the topics of interest. Council also reinforces, by monitoring Board of The Compensation and People Committee goes the activities performed by our Internal Directors deeper into the evaluation of aspects related to Audit team, our company’s commitment the directors’ succession plan and compensation to subsidize AES Corporation with all model, short and long term incentives for the information required to comply with Compensation Sustainability managers, among other aspects relevant to the the North American Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Personnel Comittee Comittee management of our human capital. (SOX), which requires the installation of high standard corporate audit and security The Sustainability Committee, formed by structures and mechanisms. ten members, is led by the company’s CEO. Executive Board Its goal is to support the Board of Directors in integrating sustainability into management and Executive Board governance processes, proposing the strategy of action and the goals to be achieved, in addition Composed by two statutory directors, to monitoring the execution of initiatives to including the CEO of AES Tietê, the Executive generate value and monitor the positive and Board is responsible for conducting business negative impacts on the economic, social in accordance with the strategic guidelines and environmental dimensions. established by the Board of Directors. To learn more Click here and learn more about the attributions and composition of governance bodies on the Investor Relations website. 17 GRI 102-18 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Risk management model To ensure our company’s ability to generate Our methodology allows risks to be mapped value to our stakeholders over the long term, and classified into ten different types of the Executive Board has the role of implementing categories. The corporate risk management and monitoring a risk management model that and internal control areas assist our teams in aims to identify potentially negative aspects and prioritizing these risks according to the probability protect our business through structured action and impact of the materialization of these plans. This methodology follows the guidelines occurrences, allowing the preparation of action of the Risk Management Policy, approved by and mitigation plans for the most significant ones. the Board of Directors and prepared based on the best practices adopted by the market One of the outstanding features of our (COSO ERM model). business model is related to the evolution towards cyber risk management, an externality This management is supported by the risk correlated to the greater digitalization and management office, which advises the Executive virtualization of our operations. To mitigate this Board and monitors the application of tools aspect, we participate in the Cyber Ninja Program, for identification, evaluation and prioritization developed by AES Corporation and covering of corporate risks. It also prepares the several initiatives for protection of cyber-attacks, communication of the results and action contingency verification and protection of internal To learn more plans to the Fiscal Council. and customer data. Click here and see items 4 and 5 of our Reference Form for more information about the company’s risks and its management. Risk categories Market Legal Compliance Environmental Strategic Financial Regulatory Operational Credit Technology risk risk risk risk risk risk risk risk risk risk 18 GRI 102-15 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Our strategy Growth and diversification of our portfolio 100% based In order to adapt and respond to the changes in the on renewable and water risk energy sector and in the customer profile, with greater free sources power of choice from the opportunities and possibilities of growth in the free market, and to seek growth and development of businesses with sustainability and long-term value generation, our company strategy is revised every year. STRATEGIC Commercial PILLARS excellence in our In 2019, this review allowed the alignment of our portfolio management strategic planning with the projected trends for different future scenarios, considering the growth in demand for renewable energy and the evolution of this market in Brazil. With this, the strategic pillars that define the way we Operational excellence generate value have become: in the management of our assets Mission Vision Values Promote well-being and Be acknowledged by our customers • Safety first development through and shareholders as their main • Integrity a safe, sustainable and partner for innovative energy • Honoring commitments reliable provision of solutions in a sustainable, reliable • Strive for excellence energy solutions and affordable way • Professional fulfillment 19 GRI 102-15 | 102-16 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Growth and diversification The Ten-Year Energy Expansion Plan In the search for new assets, we evaluate different from end to end, with prompt delivery and tailored prepared by the Energy Research Company aspects of attractiveness and optimization of our solutions to bring our customers a flexible offer (EPE), estimates that the country’s electricity capital structure. One of these is the possibility of focused on their needs. consumption will grow 31% above the economy aggregating complementary sources of generation by 2029. To meet this demand, renewable to our portfolio, which present attractive returns, This growth strategy is materialized in the sources (wind, solar, biomass and PCHs) will with long-term contracts to reduce risks and formation of long-term partnerships with account for 33% of the national energy matrix – increase revenue predictability. We also analyze customers, who now have a more sustainable and up from 22% in 2019. the possibilities of operational synergies with our competitive energy supply for the development platform, including considering the operations of our of their business. The renewable energy driven The expansion and diversification of our parent company (AES Corporation). by this investment decision adds environmental generator park meets this scenario, by expanding benefits, reduces the carbon footprint and promotes the presence of wind and solar power plants in Growth also comes through innovation and positive socioeconomic impacts on communities in the country. Our growth strategy has two routes implementation of new technologies. We work territories in the interior of the country. – acquisitions of operational assets (M&A) and on structuring an integrated business platform of development of new projects (greenfield). innovative energy products and solutions, working Portfolio evolution (MW) 3,858 3,596 3,343 2,658 386 245 260 150 144 9 5 2 Hydroelectric Alto Guaimbê Ouroeste Distributed Current Tucano Phase I Distributed Estimated Tucano Distributed Estimated Sertão II generation installed generation installed generation installed (DG) capacity (DG) capacity (DG) capacity Operational Under development Pipeline 20 GRI 102-15 | EU6 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Commercial excellence Our marketing strategy aims to optimize the commercial margin of the company’s Anticipation Management Complementarity integrated portfolio in order to mitigate the effects of water risk on our results. Through the joint work of our commercial and market intelligence teams, we have adopted several measures to reduce the volatility of our commercial margins and ensure a more CONTRACTING SEASONALISATION MARKETING NEW SOURCES efficient and intelligent energy allocation. LEVEL The diversification favors the balancing of our portfolio, driven by the complementarity Optimization Differentiated Taking New sources for of the generation profile of our plants. By of the portfolio energy allocation advantage of balancing investing in sector intelligence studies, we contracting level strategy business anticipate short-term price trends and take opportunities advantage of market opportunities. With a close relationship with clients and agility in implementing the strategy, Operational excellence we work to develop innovative and customized solutions that meet all their The efficient operation of our assets supports hydroelectric, solar and wind power plants, demands. Our teams work to seek new and the growth of our business through continuous enabling the entry of new assets with agility and promising business opportunities, adding improvement in cost management, allocation of capital safety to serve customers. value to a diversified portfolio, with over structure and ensuring availability for renewable energy 200 contracts served. generation. With the use of cutting-edge technology We also have the Shared Services Center and consolidated processes, we prioritize the safety of (SSC), responsible for centralizing the company’s activities and gain agility to incorporate and capture various transactional activities – such as invoicing, synergies from new M&A and greenfield projects. accounting, human resources management and purchases of peripheral inputs. Thus, we have been In this sense, the COGE centralizes the remote keeping operating expenses stable, even with the operation of our generator park and provides addition of new capacities to our portfolio. efficiency gains. Its systems platform already operates 21 GRI 102-15 | EU6 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Relationship with suppliers Building solid, long-term partnerships with suppliers drives the development of our business, the excellence in asset management and the prioritization of safety in all operations. To conduct this relationship with ethics and transparency, we use the Supplier Performance Index (IDF) – a tool that allows us to monitor the deliveries and performance of companies contracted for critical activities in our business model. We updated the IDF’s evaluation mechanisms to keep up with the company’s new demands in view of the strategy of growth and diversification of the asset portfolio. In 2019, we created a new specific questionnaire for companies providing construction and maintenance services (the most relevant types of contracting in our operations), emphasizing technical and safety aspects of these activities. We also improved the procedures for inserting evaluations into the database, making this internal process more agile. Another evolution was the implementation of a new portal for registration, analysis and storage of documentation and approval of suppliers. The new platform, which replaced the old system, made it possible to include socio-environmental issues in the companies’ pre-registration questionnaire. Last year, we involved about 1,600 suppliers in our business chain. The number of contractors remained stable compared to 2018, when there was a growth in the partner base to match the expansion of wind and solar energy businesses. 22 GRI 102-9 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Guidelines Sustainable development requires each of us to align ourselves more profoundly with the desires of society and with the great social, economic and environmental challenges ahead of us. The current context in society shows us the need for decarbonization with a change in the companies’ business models. We also see greater empowerment of customers in decisions to purchase energy and an increasing trend towards digitalization of processes. New global commitments have emerged in recent years to meet this changing landscape. Our parent company AES Corporation is committed to reducing its coal-fired power plants in other countries and became a signatory in 2018 to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), a global initiative to improve corporate governance, management and transparency about the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. In this background, we revised our sustainability commitments in 2019 through a broad process of internal assessment and listening to our customers and suppliers, as well as government representatives. We analyzed studies, scenarios and sector benchmarks, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) proposed by the United Nations (UN), among others. In addition, we consulted with our stakeholders to identify which challenges and demands are a priority in their relationship with AES Tietê and which SDG, in their view, may have positive or negative influence. Finally, we engage our leaders in a workshop to re-signify the sustainability vision in our business and define a clear positioning, with strategic focus, commitments and goals. 23 GRI 102-12 | 102-15 | 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-46 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 AFFORDABLE AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLIMATE LIFE CLEAN ENERGY AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITIES ACTION ON LAND The six pillars of the Sustainability Guidelines are aligned with the SDGs and other voluntary commitments we endorse The result of this work was the definition of our Sustainability Guidelines, which represent the evolution of the strategy adopted in 2012 and reformulated in 2015. There are six pillars and commitments (see diagram on page 25), aligned with five priority SDG. For each of them, we have defined specific goals, looking ahead to 2023. The broad dissemination of the guidelines was initiated in 2019 and guided the content and structure of this report. Each guideline is equivalent to a material topic, the limits of which are shown in the diagram on the next page. In the following chapters, learn a little more about how we are moving forward and intend to evolve further on each of these fronts. The Sustainability Guidelines also reinforce our alignment with other voluntary initiatives. Since 2006, we have been signatories of the Global Compact and have made progress in Serving society implementing and communicating actions to promote the 10 The CEO of AES Corporation was one of the 181 leaders to sign the Declaration Principles for the defense of human rights, labor rights and on the Purpose of a Corporation published by Business Roundtable. The manifesto, environmental protection and to combat corruption in our released in August 2019, formalizes the commitment of its signatories to promote activities. We also formally adhere, as of 2017, to the Principles businesses that benefit all stakeholders and society as a whole. The publication of this of Women’s Empowerment promoted by UN Women and the commitment marked a radical change in the economic vision of the association, created Global Compact. In addition, since 1999 we have been recognized in 1972. The initiative brings together companies with an annual turnover of as a Child Friendly Company by the Abrinq Foundation, due to US$ 7 trillion and over 15 million employees. the commitments made institutionally in defense of the rights of children and adolescents. 24 GRI 102-12 | 102-15 | 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-49 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Guidelines Click on each of the pillars and learn more about our goals. Energy Economic and E intelligence operational OV Develop solutions performance AT that enable intelligent Ensure a solid capital structure SO IV and efficient energy and asset optimization, with LID consumption technical and operational excellence of our activities INN Accessibility Customer satisfaction Provide broad and easy access to energy Promote the best solutions through experience for our innovative technologies customers, through the safe, sustainable and reliable supply of energy solutions Ethical and responsible Socio-environmental management impact Create an ethical, Positively impact local safe and diverse communities and reduce development environment the environmental impact for our employees of our operations and suppliers Back to To learn more RESPON SIBLE start Click here and access the full AES Tietê Sustainability Guidelines. 25 GRI 102-44 | 102-47 | 103-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholders engagement The continuous engagement of our stakeholders is carried out by the company’s areas through meetings, e-mails and telephone contacts. In addition, we periodically conduct surveys to assess the level of satisfaction with strategic audiences, such as customers and employees, and to identify their main demands. Suppliers Shareholders Customers Employees Communities AES Tietê’ Public power stakeholders Organized civil Regulatory society bodies Electric sector Press agents 26 GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 Business model Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Business One of the most important resources of the 21st century, the electricity is at the center model of the global debate on ways to promote decarbonization. Since 2015, when countries committed to meeting targets to reduce CO2 emissions and prevent the planet’s average temperature from rising more than 2 °C, governments, businesses and citizens are committed to finding ways to ensure the energy supply they need with a smaller environmental footprint. The purpose of our company is within this climate context. The value we generate for our customers goes beyond offering energy at more attractive costs to their business. As an integrated energy platform, we deliver solutions that add sustainability to the entire value chain, expanding renewable sources in the energy matrix and improving energy management for more efficient consumption. We put at the service of our clients a cutting-edge corporate structure, with qualified professionals, technology and innovation projects. Our goal is to understand the needs of each company we work with, to present the various solutions in our portfolio and to support everyone in making the best choices – from an economic, social and environmental perspective – for their business. 28 GRI 102-15 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Business model CLIMATE ACTION Our performance is aligned with the global challenges in sustainability and contributes, in 1 4 particular, to the goals of clean energy, industry innovation, sustainable cities, fighting climate change and preserving SUSTAINABLE CITIES terrestrial biodiversity AND COMMUNITIES foreseen in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), defined by the UN. Click on each number in the drawing to better understand how we INDUSTRY, INNOVATION generate value through AND INFRASTRUCTURE solutions and a way of working that benefit all stakeholders with whom we relate. 2 3 FINANCIAL NATURAL HUMAN MANUFACTURED AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY LIFE ON LAND INTELLECTUAL SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Back to start 29 GRI 102-15 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Sector context The Unregulated Contracting Environment, also called the free market, is the company’s main vector for growth and modernization of the electric power sector in Brazil. In this modality, customers with a load equal to or greater than 2 MW can purchase energy through bilateral contracts with freely negotiated price and term conditions. These consumers pay the distributor only the network maintenance fee, not the cost of energy – as in the Regulated Contracting Environment. Since 2019, the minimum threshold for entry into the free market has been reduced, allowing more customers the freedom of choice to decide how best to meet their energy demands. In recent years, the national congress has discussed the modernization of the electricity sector through bills in the Senate (PLS 232/2016) and the House of Representatives (PL 1.917/2015), which includes expanding and making more flexible the access to the free market for all customers. The Executive Branch has also acted to expand the opening of the market and regulated a further reduction of this limit. There are already forecasts of adequacy for January 1, 2021 (1.5 MW), January 1, 2022 (1 MW) and January 1, 2023 (0.5 MW). Currently, consumers such as industries and small businesses – with a total load below 2 MW and over 0.5 MW – have the option to access the free market in the “special customers” category. In this case, the energy supply is served by plants from renewable sources (wind, solar, biomass and PCHs). It is worth noting that more and more customers have sought to ensure more environmentally sustainable consumption. 30 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 The energy self-production model is another potential arrangement that has given consumers greater freedom and made it possible to add more sustainability to the production chain of companies in various sectors. In this format, the generation Guarantee of origin can occur in the same place of consumption or in We were the first company in Brazil certified to issue RECs (Renewable different places, an option that makes possible the Energy Certificate), through the Água Vermelha hydroelectric and one of our installation of large wind and solar plants. wind power plants. Each REC is equivalent to 1 MWh of energy and proves that the energy purchased through bilateral contracts comes from a clean The biggest challenge for customers who and renewable source, allowing our customers to measure the positive opt for the self-production system is the environmental impact on their business chains. management of these assets, which must belong to the self-producing company. Operation and maintenance, construction planning and the relationship with regulatory agencies are activities that require specific knowledge of the regulation and operation of the sector. The formation of strategic partnerships with our customers enables renewable sources with variable production, such as wind power, to be used efficiently and productively. The know-how of our professionals allows us to find the best technical and financial solutions for the complete viability of projects of this magnitude. Besides the free market, there are other propositions in the modernization of the electrical sector that can benefit our customers, with our partnership. The hourly pricing is one of the topics that has the potential to improve their position, by performing an efficient management of energy consumption. 31 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Energy transition The transition of our society to a low carbon economy has begun. The impacts of climate change, caused by the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the resulting increase in the average temperature of the planet, can reduce productivity in practically all sectors of the economy and generate catastrophic consequences for communities most exposed to climate risks. Since 2015, when the Paris Agreement signed a global effort to prevent the planet’s temperature from rising by 2 °C, governments and energy consumers in different countries have sought mechanisms to promote the decarbonization of the energy matrix. Corporations from a wide range of sectors seek to improve their energy consumption by acquiring it from renewable sources and investing in energy efficiency. This empowerment of our customers in energy decisions has opened opportunities for us to develop solutions together that benefit not only business but society as a whole. 32 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Energy transition strategy Learn about the main challenges that this context presents for business and how we seek to differentiate ourselves in this new operating scenario. Internet of Things Customer protagonism THE CHALLENGE Digitization of business environments and connectivity of THE CHALLENGE equipment and appliances enhances Energy management In search of more sustainable management capacity and streamlines Renewable sources solutions and competitive decision-making processes. Customers advantages, customers seek demand technological solutions THE CHALLENGE alternatives to generate their to manage energy consumption THE CHALLENGE The operation of renewable sources is own energy. Distributed and make the best choices. To expand the presence of one of the biggest challenges for the generation, driven by local renewable sources in the decarbonization of the energy matrix. installation of photovoltaic energy matrix, developing The variability in resource availability boards, gains scale in large and generation still hinders the HOW WE OPERATE generation infrastructures that consumer centers. consolidation of an energy matrix We invest in remote asset management can take advantage of water, systems and tools, with digital wind and solar resources with totally free of fossil fuels. applications capable of analyzing large low environmental impact. HOW WE OPERATE volumes of data and suggesting the We have an in-depth knowledge best routes for more efficient energy of the electrical sector and are consumption. The connection of the HOW WE OPERATE HOW WE OPERATE trained to develop complete generator park to the COGE reduces Brazil has great potential for With the support of our parent projects to meet customer needs. the need for travel and speeds up renewable generation, with company, AES Corporation, we From project design to asset decision-making, with gains in solar incidence and availability have access to technologies for the management, we act as partners productivity and efficiency. of wind resources in virtually installation of energy storage systems to support the best choices all its territory. Our investment in batteries, safely and efficiently, and and add sustainability plan foresees the expansion we are prepared to act when there are and competitiveness to and diversification of the conditions in the national market. We productive chains. portfolio through acquisitions also invest in research and innovation of operational assets projects, with the creation of microgrid and implementation of energy management systems capable greenfield projects. of combining the different sources of generation and consumption and indicating the best combination for a cleaner and renewable energy matrix. 33 GRI 102-15 Economic and operational performance Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Economic and operational performance To be a company with positive results in the long term, we seek to ensure a solid capital structure and optimize the operation of our power generation assets through technical excellence and investment in new technologies. This management model guarantees continuous growth and the return on the investments made. The total added value distributed in 2019 was BRL 1.15 billion, in line with last year’s performance. The payment to third parties, which includes rents and interest, is the most representative, with 38% of the total, followed by payment to shareholders and the government. Distribution of added value in 2019 (BRL million) 124.1 300.1 Distribution of added value (BRL thousand) 2019 2018 2017 285.3 Employees 124,090 112,043 99,505 Government 285,320 324,653 330,730 Employees Financiers/Third Parties 440,453 427,456 297,840 Government Shareholders 300,119 287,963 298,277 Financiers/Third Parties 440.5 Shareholders TOTAL 1,149,982 1,152,115 1,026,352 35 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Commercial strategy Our commercial strategy is based on an active portfolio management focused on mitigating water risk, seeking opportunities for short, medium and long term energy contracting with profitability and lower price volatility. This strategy has three main pillars: Early energy purchase Purchases to strengthen our position in the driest months of the year and decrease exposure to spot purchases. Physical guarantee allocation Differentiated allocation of our energy throughout the year. Level of hydroelectric The combination of these three pillars mitigates the impact energy contracting of the GSF on our outcome by protecting our trade margin. The Hydroelectric energy contracting for constant monitoring of these variables, each month, makes each year, carried out in advance, is used as it possible to adopt the best strategies to ensure compliance protection for the lowering of the physical with the contracts signed with clients and the maintenance of guarantee of the plants caused by the GSF (Generation Scaling Factor). adequate commercial margins for the company’s return. 36 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Tucano Wind Complex launches with new partnerships The Tucano Wind Complex, originated from an option-to-purchase operation, we make it possible both to provide the necessary agreement of 582 MW of greenfield wind projects, which took place investments for the work and to enter the remote self-production in 2019, materializes our growth strategy through investment in segment, increasing the presence of a cleaner source in its energy renewable sources, forming strategic partnerships with our customers. matrix. Still with Unipar, we closed a 20-year energy purchase and The first phase of the project, already contracted, will be built in sale agreement (PPA – Purchase Power Agreement), with supply Bahia, in an area that covers three municipalities (Tucano, Biritinga starting in 2023. and Araci), and will have 322.4 MW of installed capacity. The second partnership closed in 2019, with Anglo American, To make this project possible, we have structured two different a multinational in the mining sector, has 167.4 MW of installed models with our clients. capacity and a PPA of 15 years, starting to be supplied in 2022. The first was signed with Unipar Carbocloro, a company that The estimated investment in the construction of the first phase of operates in the chemical segment, for the creation of a joint-venture the Complex is BRL 4 million/MW installed. The work is scheduled responsible for the construction and operation of the wind farm, to begin in 2021. The two contracts together will be responsible for which has 155 MW of installed capacity. With this model of exercising 55% of the option-to-purchase agreement signed. 37 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Operational strategy In the operation of our generation assets, we guarantee the availability of the wind turbines seek to achieve maximum efficiency to maximize and the use of the winds in the interior region of value generation capacity and cost management. Within this vision, the COGE is a competitive Bahia. Since the incorporation of this asset to the COGE, we have been able to identify significant Solar differential that allows us to achieve levels of operational excellence while expanding and improvement opportunities in the main equipment and have worked together with suppliers to avoid plate recovery diversifying our portfolio. any shutdown of operations. In December 2019, we started a pilot project to reuse recovered solar panels. Responsible for the supervision, command and With 20 years of experience in the management In the traditional process, this equipment remote and centralized control of all power plants, of hydraulic generation assets, we have achieved a is sent for correct disposal, in which the COGE fully integrated the Guaimbê and high level of availability in the plants we manage. the components are separated and sent Ouroeste solar complexes in 2019. The technical Knowledge of the operation and mastery of for recycling, but our technicians have capacity of our employees was decisive for the maintenance activities allow us to reach a maximum identified a greater potential for reuse. success of the operation and for overcoming the level of generation, taking advantage of the full The project consists of adapting the challenges related to these generating parks. potential of water resources. recovered slabs and using them as a source of energy for the fences around a One of the aspects in this management company’s Permanent Preservation Area, is the monitoring and guaranteeing of the located in the municipality of Borborema Average availability factor functioning of the tracker technology, used in the per source (%)* (State of São Paulo). The isolation Ouroeste Solar Complex. This mechanism moves protects the 5 hectares under ecological the solar panels throughout the day for maximum 95.7 96.2 95.2 95.5 restoration from degradation caused by use of the sun’s energy, and the COGE systems 90.8 cattle herds. A single plate is sufficient to 82.9 continuously monitor their performance. The electrify up to 50 kilometers of fence. management of vegetation in solar power plants The technology, which meets all health has also proved to be a new operational challenge, and safety requirements, does not harm both in Guaimbê and Ouroeste. This operation is the community or the local fauna. Its fundamental to avoid shading on the solar panels, benefit is associated with a reduction in which limits the generation capacity, and to the generation of waste in operations mitigate the risk of fires in the plants due to the and a significant contribution to the presence of dry vegetation. 2017 2018 2019 conservation of local biodiversity. Hydroelectric * Wind and solar operations At the Alto Sertão II Wind Complex, we have Wind started in 2018 and 2019, developed a preventive maintenance plan to Solar respectively. 38 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU30 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 The operation of the hydroelectric plants also Maintenance activities are carried out by includes the six locks that are part of the Tietê-Paraná third parties, hired through the service provider Waterway Hub, all integrated to the COGE. Every two companies, with a fixed term. The actions at the 1,165 third parties years we carry out programmed maintenance work locks, in addition to programmed intervention for on these structures, an activity that requires perfect general preventive maintenance of the Ibitinga working in our units at coordination with government agencies and waterway Power Plant, led to an increase in the hiring of the end of 2019 agents. Last year, we prepared a detailed action these teams. In 2019, there were 1,165 third plan to conduct this activity in 2020 with maximum parties working in our units, a figure 38% higher efficiency and the most agile return on navigation. than the previous year. Recognition in asset management Our generation asset management is preservation areas (drones) and automation continuously evolving and the way we work of reports (GIS) has led to the optimization has stood out in the electricity sector. In Brazil, of resources, cost reduction and increased we were pioneers in obtaining PAS 55 and ISO reliability of operation and maintenance 55001 certificates. We were also one of the first processes, in addition to substantially companies in the sector to massify the use of mitigating the risk related to the safety of drones and robots to improve the operation of our employees, third-party service providers water and solar power plants. and the general public. In 2019, we presented a case study about our For this initiative, we were recognized “Global Drones and Robots Program” during for applying best practices and received the sixth edition of the Asset Management the National Award for Asset Management Meeting for Companies in the Energy Sector Engenheiro Amauri Reigado, in EGAESE. (EGAESE). The use of different equipment Another seven projects presented by the for flow measurement (boat), underwater company were classified as finalists in other inspection (ROV), monitoring of reservoirs and categories of the event. 39 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Financial performance Net revenue evolution Net income evolution 17.3% (BRL million) 15.0% The year of 2019 consolidated the presence of 14.6% solar energy in our portfolio of renewable sources 300.1 and the contribution of these new assets to 2,049.7 1,923.5 298.3 generating value. The Ouroeste Solar Complex, 1,728.1 which consists of two photovoltaic generation plants, had its construction finished and has already started commercial operation, joining the Guaimbê Solar Complex, which had started operating at 288.0 the end of 2018. Both assets contribute to the company’s financial results and increase the capacity to diversify generating sources, reducing exposure to water risk. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Net revenue (BRL million) The positive performance of solar and wind Net margin (%) sources, combined with a successful commercial strategy to balance the net margin of the hydroelectric plants, led our company to achieve positive economic results in 2019. The net EBITDA evolution commercial margin was BRL 1,374.6 million in 2019, 52.3% 50.2% 48.1% an increase of 2.9%, or BRL 38.2 million, when compared to 2018. 1,006.8 1,029.9 831.0 Lats year’s EBITDA grew by 2,3%, or This performance reflects 12 months of operation BRL 23.1 million, in relation to 2018, totaling of Guaimbê Solar Complex, the start of full BRL 1.029,9 million; and net profit increased by operation of Ouroeste Solar Complex and a better 4,2%, or BRL 12.2 million, on the same basis of performance of Alto Serão II Wind Complex, which comparison, ending the year at BRL 300.1 million. reached an average availability index of 96% in 2019, allowing to seize the higher incidence of wind This performance reflects the complementarity in the second semester of the year and contributing 2017 2018 2019 brought by the new sources, assuring less volatility to margin increase in the period. in our results and return to our shareholders. EBITDA (BRL million) EBITDA margin (%) 40 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Capital optimization To strengthen our capacity to invest and expand With more attractive costs and new our business, we worked in 2019 to recompose technologies in equipment, such as larger and our company’s debt profile. The actions taken more robust wind turbines, the wind source in the last year made it possible to obtain more has become a growth vector for our company. extended maturities and lower debt costs, Therefore, we have sought opportunities for asset thereby strengthening the capacity to invest and acquisitions and construction of new projects, with acquire new projects. Moreover, the new portfolio a responsible assessment of risks and expected has a new covenant limit, consistent with the returns in the long term. company’s growth strategy. BRL 820 million In 2019, we studied the acquisition of a new wind were obtained The reorganization of our capital structure farm, Alto Sertão III, located near the assets we involved a total funding of BRL 2.2 billion in already owned. Due to the non-fulfillment of the in Green Bonds debentures last year. Part of these funds – pre-conditions of the signed Share Purchase and last year BRL 820 million – were obtained through Sale Agreement, the negotiations for the acquisition securities classified as Green Bonds, which are of the assets were ended. Our company continued used to finance sustainable projects. These to be committed to the growth strategy and made specific resources are intended for the Ouroeste the first phase of the Tucano Wind Complex viable and Guaimbê Solar Complexes and have a through strategic partnerships with clients (learn 10-year maturity. more on page 37). The issuance of Green Bonds follows the Net debt and leverage guidelines of the international organization Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) and are certified by 2.99x 2.79x 2.50x Sitawi, an entity that promotes financial solutions with social impact in Brazil. With this initiative, 3,094.0 we were the first company in Brazil to obtain 2,892.2 Green Bonds for solar generation projects. 2,385.1 Net debt (BRL million) 2017 2018 2019 Leverage (times) 41 Ethical and responsible management Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Ethical and responsible management The solidness of our Ethics and Compliance Program is a relevant factor for the trust we establish in our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners, investors and other stakeholders. Structured in accordance with the Brazilian (Anti-Corruption Law – No. 12,846/2013) and North American (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act – FCPA) legislation, this set of policies and practices ensures the systematic adoption of measures that guarantee the ethical conduct and compliance of our operations. The main guideline within this model is the AES Values Guide, our code of conduct, approved by the Board of Directors of AES Corporation in 2007. The Guide presents the corporate values and guides the conduct of our employees in their daily relationships, internally or with external audiences. The wide disclosure of this document is a condition for the dissemination of a culture of compliance. Therefore, we apply training on the Ethics and Compliance Program to all new hires and, every two years, to all employees – the last recycling took place in 2018, the next one being scheduled for 2020. At these moments, professionals sign a copy of the Guide, formalizing their commitment to adopt the expected behaviors in their daily lives. We also continuously promote internal campaigns, with emphasis on the Global Ethics Day, in which we raise awareness throughout the company on compliance subjects, in addition to biannual training sessions with the leadership, which acts as a content multiplier with its teams. With this approach, we ensure that 100% of employees are continuously communicated and trained in anti-corruption policies and practices. 43 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-16 | 205-2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 We achieved an 86% For external audiences, we also publicly satisfaction index in the disclose our anti-corruption guidelines. AES Tietê’s potential and current partners are also 2019 Climate Survey and assessed for compliance aspects through due were included, for the fourth diligence processes that mitigate reputational consecutive year, among the risks to the company. Institutionally, we are signatories of the Business Pact for Integrity Best Companies to Work For and against Corruption, articulated by Instituto in Brazil (Você S.A./FIA) Ethos. For 2020, we plan AES Tietê’s adhesion to the Pro-Ethical Seal, an initiative of the Comptroller General of the Union (CGU) that evaluates and rewards organizations committed to integrity and compliance in business. Another relevant front of the Program is Employee our guidance and reporting channel, the AES satisfaction Helpline. Available in Portuguese and six other languages, it can be accessed through Working in a company committed to ethics our website or by calling 0800 891 4167. The and integrity is also a factor of pride in belonging manifestations received are analyzed by a for our employees. Evidence of this is that we specialized team and treated with total secrecy, registered 86% in the satisfaction index of our zero tolerance to retaliation and possibility of Climate Survey, applied in 2019. Our goal is to anonymity of the declarant. The contract for achieve 90% satisfaction by 2023. In addition, channel management is conducted globally: for the fourth consecutive year, we are among after the first filter of the company responsible Manifestations on AES Helpline* the 150 Best Companies to Work For in Brazil, for receiving the calls, the AES Corporation 2019 2018 2017 a ranking prepared by Você S/A magazine team is notified, forwarding the issues to the in partnership with Fundação Instituto de local teams. This whole process goes through an Consultations 9 9 5 Administração (FIA). We occupy the third place external audit every year. Reports 31 14 9 in the electric utilities sector, with a happiness index of 77.4 (on a scale of 0 to 100). *In 2019, there were no confirmed cases of corruption or discrimination through the AES Helpline 44 GRI 102-17 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-2 | 205-3 | 406-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Safety first Safety is our company’s first value. Ethical and been attested by another audit cycle promoted responsible management requires the care of by AES Corporation. Held every three years, this Technology in safety our employees and the third parties who work in our units, in addition to the communities around our process covered in 2019 our hydroelectric plants and the Alto Sertão II Wind Complex. Over management assets. One of the main achievements in 2019 in this the course of four weeks, auditors from group Our online platform for third-party service providers scope was to obtain the ISO 45001 certificate, which companies in other countries visited our operations. management gained new features in 2019. Created in the replaces the OHSAS 18001 one, for the Guaimê Solar No critical or highly relevant deviations have been previous year to systematize the control of documentation Complex, the Alto Sertão II Wind Complex and all the identified and all opportunities for improvement and hours worked by the contracted professionals, the hydroelectric plants. The integration of the operation already have an action plan in place. The audit of system began to include the pre-qualification process of and the solidity of the processes consolidated the solar power plants was scheduled for 2020, the suppliers, until then conducted separately to each in the hydroelectric plants allowed AES Tietê to with the entry into operation of the Guaimbê and new contract, and automated the communications with achieve certification in a short period of operation Ouroeste solar complexes. these companies, which were previously conducted of wind and solar monitoring. It is worth mentioning via e-mail. These changes have optimized the flow of the pioneering occupational health and safety The installation works of the new plants are also information, bringing more agility and traceability of data. management system certification in the hydroelectric, an example of the safety culture in the company. The effectiveness of the tool has also been proven by the solar and wind segments, simultaneously. Acting very close to the contracted companies, feedback received from contractors, who in many cases we have shared knowledge and stimulated the began to adopt the platform itself as the control basis for The soundness of the health, safety and adoption of best practices. The safety indicators of the management of their health and safety indicators. environmental policy and practice system has also these activities are accounted for in the recordable Occupational health and safety indicators* and lost time incident rates, for which we have set corporate 2019 2018 2017 targets. Throughout the construction of the Ouroeste Solar LTI Rate Lost time incident rate (fatal incidents and typical incidents with lost work days) Complex, which involved around 1.5 million hours of work, Employees 0.00 0.19 0.00 there was no record of incidents with lost time. Third Parties 0.10 0.00 0.31 Goal 0.00 0.00 0.01 In the view of the indicators by the US OSHA methodology, which we adopted for alignment in reporting to AES Recordable Rate recordable incident rate (includes fatal incidents, LTI and typical incidents without loss of working days) Corporation, we achieved the target for total Recordable Rate, Employees 0.00 0.19 0.00 but we had one accident with a third party service provider at Third Parties 0.51 0.31 0.46 Guaimbê Solar Complex, which led to time lost and impacted Goal 0.64 0.64 0.64 the LTI Rate (Lost Time Indicator). *Data reported in accordance with the Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) standard, an agency of the United States Department of Labor. 45 GRI | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 403-9 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Teamwork to prevent incidents Our approach to incident prevention is by monitoring presence in the courses. In required by the nature of their activities and complemented by efforts to prevent occurrences, addition, we have Internal Accident Prevention are the responsibility of their contractors. In especially the “Don’t Conform to Risk” program. This Commissions (CIPAs) in our units, for which these cases, we block access to the internal initiative encourages employees to report any hazards representatives are elected by the employees areas of the plants to avoid their exposure to they may have identified in operations, through themselves. In locations where CIPA is not the risk of accidents. dialogue with the leadership, by specific e-mail or by mandatory, we form Fire Brigades and formally Regarding the worker’s health aspects, digital system – including in an anonymous way. designate a professional or group of people as we act both in the periodic performance of We have also prepared a pocket guide so that responsible for the safety issue. exams and in the disclosure of information professionals have at their disposal a form to fill We demand the same discipline and and awareness of the teams. Every year, in in identifying these risks. The document can be compliance from the contractors in this the Internal Week for Incident Prevention detached and delivered to the leaders. The program matter, monitoring the validity of each service (SIPAT), we address topics such as alcohol, also promotes the strengthening of the safety culture provider’s certificates through an online portal. drugs and sexually transmitted diseases, through the recognition of proactive employees, who This tool allows, for example, to identify when inviting all employees and third parties to made the most significant reports and contributed to a professional access our unit without being up lectures and special programs for this event. the reduction of risks in activities. to date with specific safety training or that are Another relevant development in the year was the global adoption of a new incident investigation methodology. Called “Tap Root”, this system promotes a thorough assessment of the root causes of any incident, allowing the identification of latent problems and working on improvements in a more assertive way. Health and safety training is planned to ensure that the entire workforce is properly qualified in the regulatory standards applicable to each type of activity and in the operating procedures defined. We guarantee the training of all employees through the annual process of survey of training needs and 46 GRI | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-2 | 403-3 | 403-4 | 403-5 | 403-6 | EU18 Customer satisfaction Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Customer satisfaction Our company’s growth in Brazil is aligned with AES Corporation’s global strategy to expand the presence of renewable-based generation assets in its business portfolio. The success of our strategy is linked to increasing customer satisfaction with the solutions we deliver as an integrated energy platform, enabling the formation of strategic partnerships for investment in new wind and solar power plants. The signing of the contract with Unipar Carbocloro for the creation of a joint-venture for wind power generation highlights this capacity – the industrial group was the first in Brazil to join the free energy market in 1999. We currently have a base of approximately 200 Approximately Market intelligence customers, a number that has grown each year as a result of the wide range of solutions and services 200 companies To support our commercial strategy, we have a team dedicated we offer. Our strategy is directed at investigating the market and the needs of national companies, make up to developing new products and solutions in the energy segment. In addition, this area is responsible for analyzing market data and assessing opportunities so that we can make a our current information, segmenting it in order to identify groups of customers difference and add value and sustainability to their customer base with greater potential and subsidizing the commercial area for a more businesses. agile and efficient approach. To do so, we conduct market research, use statistical tools and evaluate customer response to new solutions. This model of action feeds back and allows a continuous evolution of the value proposal that our company has to offer. 48 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Satisfaction survey Every year, we evaluate our clients’ satisfaction by means of a survey that investigates various aspects of the relationship we establish. The survey, conducted by an external and independent company, contributes to the improvement of our strategy and to direct the development of innovations. In 2019, we reached 72.2% in the NPS (Net Promoter Score), an index that aims to measure the degree of customer loyalty, an evolution in relation to the 61.4% result obtained in the previous year. In addition, the Perceived Quality Satisfaction Index (ISQP) remained at a high level of 93%. Partnerships and solutions To serve customers with maximum efficiency, we have structured our portfolio to be a flexible and adaptable integrated energy platform. Thus, in 2019, we won new business and helped large companies migrate to a more sustainable energy management model. supply. The client has also joined Energy Retailer, a solution indicated for companies with multiple The McDonald’s fast food chain joined our company in consumption units. In 2019, we reached 2019 in a contract to migrate to the free market of 205 72.2% of Net Promoter units, distributed in São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and the For both contracts, our company modeled the Federal District. For this project, the developed plant will consumption load and became responsible for all Score, and kept the have 5.3 MW of installed capacity. interaction with the Chamber of Electric Energy Perceived Quality For Senac, one of the largest educational institutions Trading (CCEE), allowing schools, Senac hotels and offices and McDonald’s restaurants to have Satisfaction Index at in the country, our solutions have allowed the migration access to better price conditions, predictability a high level of 93% of the 55 educational units to the free energy market, and control of spending and protection against with economy and agility for contracting the energy possible operational risks. 49 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Free energy Energy Electricity Distributed market retailer management generation We support our clients to Solution indicated for medium A complete and specialized Complete modeling of the migrate to the Unregulated and small customers who seek consulting service to simplify system to generate one’s own Contracting Environment, where the benefits of the free market, the relationship of customers energy, at the consumption the purchase and sale of energy without bureaucracy and with energy, present new site or remotely, ensuring the follows bilaterally established complex processes. technologies and make their connection to the distribution market conditions. business more competitive. network and the benefits of the option for renewable sources. WE ARE AN INTEGRATED PLATFORM OF SOLUTIONS Our portfolio of solutions is at the service of our customers to provide economy, agility, reliability and drive sustainable energy consumption. Self-production Energy Renewable Energy Reforestation A solution that guarantees storage Certificate (REC) Through the “Mãos na Mata” the supply of energy AES Corporation is a pioneer and A certificate that gives our program, we give space for generated by renewable global leader in developing battery customers the guarantee of our clients to participate in sources (wind or solar) to storage systems, which make the purchasing energy generated reforestation actions on the the client’s consumer units, electrical system more robust and through renewable sources, edges of hydraulic generation benefiting large clients with reliable. with sustainability and good reservoirs, with the delivery of custom-made projects. environmental practices, at seedlings and monitoring of affordable costs. recovered areas. 50 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Energy intelligence Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Energy intelligence Innovation is the path that leads us to develop solutions for our customers focused on enabling intelligent and efficient consumption of electricity. By proposing new products and tools that contribute to overcoming energy challenges, we generate value for society as a whole through more sustainable production chains connected to the demand for economic models with lower environmental impact. Innovations and new technologies The development of the Microgrid system and the Virtual Power Plant (VPP) are two examples of prototypes of innovations based on this model of performance and that have great potential to transform the way our customers consume electricity. Microgrid is a solution that integrates and manages, autonomously, all the sources of generation, storage and The VPP, in turn, acts as a virtual power plant, enabling the 2 system points of energy consumption of a customer. The system integration between microgrids and energy assets of different prototypes analyzes the variables in real time and, without the need customers, aggregating the volumes of load and power for human intervention, offers the best combination at each generation to meet portfolio demand in the free market. With exemplify our moment. Thus, the generation by photovoltaic panels, for this innovation, cogeneration systems underused in a company, model of innovative example, can be consumed in real time or stored in batteries for example, or energy stored in batteries may be remotely performance to be dispatched at peak times, with optimization of the dispatched at certain times to commercialize this surplus with relationship between cost and benefit. The system has other customers who are in deficit. Smart algorithms are able already been tested and is currently in full operation at our to evaluate various scenarios and weigh the cost of energy, Power Generation Operations Center (COGE). providing more efficiency and gains for all involved. 52 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU8 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Boosting startups The relationship with startups that develop Boosted companies exemplify the way we research solutions in the area of electrical energy is a and structure new ideas based on our innovation strategy that we have adopted since 2016 to drive platform, which has six guidelines: the development of innovations. We were the Investments in first company in the sector to use the resources • Internet of Things; R&D projects in of the Research and Development Program (R&D) • Energy Storage; regulated by ANEEL in this sense and we became a • Distributed Generation; 2019 totaled reference for the market. • Digital Energy Solutions; BRL 7.9 million • Reliable and Energy Quality Tools; and In 2019, we completed the selection and • Energy Management. acceleration stage of the second edition of the project in partnership with Liga Ventures. Two startups were selected, out of a total of 144 registered, and received support of BRL 750,000, in addition to mentoring for the development of Distribution of investments by research line approved projects. In the first edition, conducted between 2017 and 2018, two other initiatives were accelerated, with the development of prototypes for the online management of energy consumption Electricity and the construction of wind turbines in urban Supervision, control and protection of systems environments. electricity systems planning One of the current initiatives is that of the company MovE, which has designed a project to Alternative sources of connect electric vehicle conductors, electric stations electricity generation and energy suppliers and thus have the potential Safety to boost the electric mobility market. The other project, by Mitsidi Brain, is an automated diagnostic platform for energy optimization of small and Energy efficiency R&D medium sized consumer establishments. Others management Environment 53 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | EU8 Accessibility Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Accessibility Our business model is geared towards providing our customers From the inputs collected and from workshops 20 employees with broad access to energy solutions through innovative with the leaders, we built our own methodology for technologies. To this end, we seek to strengthen the culture of managing innovations – from the idea to the design were trained innovation in our company, leading our teams to play a central role of new products. The development is based on design as disseminators as interlocutors between developers and the market, a role that thinking methodologies, Lean Startup philosophy (to of corporate is strengthened by the dissemination of the culture of innovation aimed at facing energy challenges. add value to production flow) and the structuring of a tool kit for project management. innovation One of the most important projects developed in this direction Finally, we have trained a group of approximately 20 in 2019 was the realization of a corporate diagnosis of our employees to act as disseminators of the innovation innovation capacity. With the support of an external consultancy, culture and of our methodology for corporate we interviewed the company’s leaders and clients, and sent a innovation management. The areas of innovation and questionnaire on the subject to all employees. This initiative aimed project management work together on this front, with to identify our current stage in the innovation journey and compare the aim of consolidating ourselves as an innovative it with other companies in our sector. company in our market. Summer Jobs for the young innovators In order to disseminate the culture of innovation All our areas were invited to submit challenges in all our areas, we joined in 2019 the Summer Jobs and critical questions that could be worked program aimed at promoting practical experiences on by students of courses such as computer for undergraduate students during the holiday science, engineering, administration, economics, period. The initiative was designed by the Centro de among others. For six weeks the students had Estudos e Sistemas Avançados do Recife (CESAR), the opportunity to apply theories and propose a non-profit institution focused on research and innovative solutions by means of prototypes under innovation. the guidance of CESAR tutors. 55 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Socio-environmental impact Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Socio-environmental impact Our commitment to safety in operations is made explicit in AES Tietê’s number 1 value and involves, in addition to operational and community safety efforts (learn more on page 45), a systematic model for managing the dams of our hydroelectric power plants. For this, we rely on the use of technology, discipline in the application of inspections and broad transparency with the regulatory bodies and the municipalities of the areas of influence. The dams of our power plants are strong and consolidated structures, built with the most rigorous technical engineering standards and their integrity is fundamental to both the safety of the regions and the availability of assets for power generation. We monitor in real time all weather and river affluence conditions that may impact the reservoirs, in addition to periodic evaluations of control structures and instruments. There are 54 weather stations distributed in the affluents of the reservoirs so that we can predict behaviors in flood situations. Dam verifications include the use of drones for aerial or submerged structure surveys, as well as visual inspections foreseen in specific procedures. We also continuously invest in qualifying our employees to be ready in case of deviations, through training in the Operating System in Emergencies (SOSEm). 57 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 | EU21 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 According to the applicable legal BRL 100,000 requirements, we have updated and forwarded are invested annually in to the National Electrical Energy Agency awareness initiatives to the The monitoring of the 4.8 thousand (ANEEL) the risk assessment sheets of our 9 population around the plants kilometers of reservoir edges that we hydroelectric plants and 3 small hydroelectric manage – a slightly greater distance than the plants. In addition, we have made available to Brazilian extension from north to south (in the 126 municipalities in our area of influence a straight line from Oiapoque to Chuí) – is the Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) so that also important to ensure the compliance of each municipality can develop, together with the occupations in the surroundings. In an the Civil Defense, the respective municipal intensified effort since 2016, we have worked action plans. Our support to local government with the owners and local inhabitants to will continue after the sending of the EAPs: for regularize the areas and, when this is not 2020, we plan to hold regional workshops so possible, to vacate them. In 2019, 3,769 that the community of all these cities can be properties had this process completed. involved in the exchange of information and This action is fundamental for safety in the planning of measures. region and helps us to disseminate to local audiences the same culture of compliance that we have adopted in our own areas. We invest around BRL 100,000 annually in initiatives to raise awareness and educate Monitoring the the population around our operations, in addition to promoting visits to our units. In 4,800 kilometers of reservoirs, we always activate audible alerts reservoir edges contributes before the opening of floodgates, to avoid to ensure the compliace accidents with people who may exceed the safety limits. With this management, we of the occupations have not registered any accidents with the in the surroundings population in our assets since 2009. and local safety 58 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 | 413-2 | EU21 | EU25 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Climate change Our operations and investments are fully aligned with the concept of a low carbon economy: generating energy from renewable sources and offering an integrated energy platform for energy efficiency for our clients. In line with this business vision and in the spirit of serving as an example of our purpose, we are committed to mitigating greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities. These emissions are mainly caused by our own consumption of electrical energy at our facilities and, secondarily, by the use of fuels in our operations and the air travel of our employees. Through the Climate Change Subcommittee, established in 2017 and composed of members from the Operations, management teams always check, at the time of Environment and Sustainability areas, we promote the request by a vehicle, if another employee will 57% of the several initiatives in order to minimize emissions in also make the same route. We are also developing consumption in our these activities. Progress on action plans is monitored an application that will automate this approach, fleet was ethanol, quarterly through subcommittee meetings. allowing the employee himself to verify the a renewable fuel possibility of sharing the trip. In 2019, several initiatives taken by this group deserve to be highlighted. We have reviewed our fleet management processes, mainly composed Energy generated from fuels in the fleet (GJ) of light vehicles, to focus on ethanol supply and 2019 2018 2017 we are implementing alternatives for sharing or Renewable sources hitchhiking among employees to reduce displacement, Ethanol 4,573.51 4,079.07 4,229.55 in addition to improving the use of technological Non-renewable sources tools to avoid displacement and promote digital and Diesel 2,236.70 2,087.41 2,674.94 remote meetings, such as Microsoft Teams. Our fleet Gasoline 1,191.89 1,143.97 294.43 Total non-renewable 3,428.59 3,231.38 2,969.37 TOTAL 8,002.10 7,310.45 7,198.92 59 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 For the third consecutive year, we publish our GHG inventory with the Gold Seal, which attests to the external verification of the data released In our Sustainability Guidelines, we have specific targets to reduce electricity consumption and greenhouse gas Last year, total energy consumption from For the third consecutive year, we emissions from energy generated. By 2023, we plan a 2% fuel combustion was 9% higher in the annual published our greenhouse gas inventory, decrease in these rates compared to 2018. comparison, due to the higher number of prepared in accordance with the Brazilian journeys between units. Ethanol use grew 12%, GHG Protocol Program, with the Gold GHG emissions inventory (tCO2e)* increasing its share in the company’s energy Seal, which attests to the external 2019 2018 2017 matrix. Currently, gasoline is only used on boats verification of data and ensures greater Scope 1 that monitor the tanks. reliability of information made publicly Emissions 223 359 304 available. For the inventory cycle for Biogenic emissions 316 326 307 In the second half of the year, we also operations in 2019, which should be Scope 2 promoted an internal campaign to raise completed in the first half of 2020, we Indirect emissions by energy consumption 320 1,062 606 awareness and reduce electricity consumption will maintain the data audit. A preliminary Scope 3 and started a carbon pricing project. In addition, version of the inventory, presented in this Other indirect emissions 249 255 219 we began internal planning to offset the air travel report, points to a reduction in scopes emissions of all AES Corporation companies by 1 and 2, due to lower fuel and electrical *The numbers are preliminary and subject to change after the launch of the updated tool of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, scheduled for planting seedlings around the reservoirs. energy consumption. April 2020. 60 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-1 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Risks and opportunities in climate change In our management model, we systematically increase our exposure to water risk – one of the footprint. Thus, we see opportunities for monitor the risks and opportunities for business most critical aspects that we manage. the growth of our business, fully based on associated with possible climate change. This On the other hand, climate change opens renewable generation and the delivery of form of action is based on the company’s space to accelerate the search for new innovative solutions created and formatted ongoing processes for assessing and prioritizing renewable energy sources and the development in partnership with customers. risks, which systematize the evaluation of of products and services with a smaller climate external data and information and capture the leadership’s vision of the externalities that can impact our operations. Voluntarily, we detail the main risks and opportunities we identify related to the topic in the Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP) platform. We participate in the international coalition that seeks to improve the availability to international investors of information on governance of the issue within publicly traded companies. Overall, climate change can impact our business through new regulations and GHG emission reduction requirements. This is a worldwide trend and, as mechanisms of this type have already been adopted in other countries, we follow the evolution of this scenario for the Brazilian electricity sector. In addition, one of the main impacts for our operations may be related to the reduction of water availability for power generation. This factor can occur in cases of change in rainfall volumes and, in case of negative variation, 61 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental management Our Integrated Management System ensures the monitoring, mitigation and compensation of any In 2019, we achieved environmental compliance of all our activities and environmental impacts in our activities. ISO 14001 recertification strategically organizes investments in health, safety and for the hydroelectric environment. In 2019, one year after consolidating the To have even more agility and reliability system for operations in the new sources in our portfolio, in managing these aspects, we implemented plants and the first we achieved ISO 14001 recertification for all hydroelectric since last year a Power BI dashboard to record certification for Guaimbê plants and the first certification for Guaimbê Solar all impacts, hazards and risks in health, safety Solar Complex and Complex and Alto Sertão II Wind Complex. and environment. The platform, available for viewing by all employees, is also an important Alto Sertão II Wind This achievement evidences the assertiveness in tool for certificates, as it ensures traceability and Complex the management of licenses and conditions and in the availability of information for decision-making. 62 GRI 102-11 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Reforestation The preservation of reservoirs edges is much more than a legal we supported the environmental literacy program of the state obligation for AES Tietê. Through “Mãos na Mata”, in partnership government of São Paulo, providing 56,000 seedlings and with SOS Mata Atlântica, we promote these reforestation actions technical support. In this project, students from the public 243.78 by establishing partnerships with other organizations. In this model, network visit the surroundings of the reservoirs and participate hectares we assign the planting area, the seedlings and the management in environmental education actions – each student even plants were reforested expertise of our environmental technicians and count on the their own seedling. By 2020, the expectation is to magnify this last year investments of the partners to multiply the scale and the positive model with the city halls, expanding its scope and planting. impacts of the recovery of areas. In 2019, we planted 243.78 hectares, reaching our regulatory Our nursery at the Promissão hydroelectric power plant produces commitment and internal planting target of 243 hectares per about 1 million seedlings annually, used in “Mãos na Mata”, in AES year. Throughout the concession period, 6.2 thousand hectares Tietê compensatory plantations and in seedling donation actions will be recovered, of which 65.5% have already been planted by for locals, such as surrounding producers and city halls. In 2019, the end of the last period. 63 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Wildlife protection Besides the local flora, we also work for the protection of animal life and two specific conservation projects – “Lobos do Pardo” and “Pardas do Tietê” – are in progress. These initiatives involve the capture, examination and monitoring of the habits of the maned wolf and the brown jaguar, so that we can better understand how they move in the areas maintained by the company and what the habits of the species are. The expectation is to expand this type of study in 2020 with efforts directed at mutum, a specie of bird that plays an important role in environmental preservation, and which is currently threatened with extinction. In the aquatic environment, our Fishing Management, Water Quality Monitoring and Macrophyte Monitoring Programs are already established. We release 2.5 million fingerlings of six native species (pacu-guaçu, curimbatá, dourado, pirancajuba, tabarana and piapara) every year, for restocking the reservoirs, in addition to fish rescue actions when maintaining the generating units, spillways and locks. Research In the operations of the Alto Sertão II Wind and development projects complete this Complex, our main challenge lies in a more detailed systematic approach, highlighting the case of 2.5 million understanding of the Cerrado and Caatinga the Quimerism. In this method, we are working fingerlings are environments, and the interactions of our windmills to reinsert the catfish species. restocked annually with these biomes. Among the environmental in the reservoirs initiatives that we develop in the region, we highlight the recovery actions of degraded areas, using ecological restoration techniques – such as direct sowing, implementation of cores, soil recovery and planting of seedlings. 64 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-2 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Relationship with communities The investments we make in social projects amplify The final stage of the process was the holding of a be connected to at least one of the three pillars the positive impacts of our business on society and the workshop that guided the construction of the new that support our strategy, meeting its objectives. communities near our operations. Our actions, in this Private Social Investment Guidelines, aligned with the context, are based on the conviction that we need to boost way we acted, but clearer regarding the objectives and In 2019, the total allocated for social the development of the regions where we are present guiding principles. investments was approximately BRL 2.5 million, so that we can grow in a sustainable manner. In 2019, adding the company’s own resources and those based on the structuring of our Sustainability Guidelines, Thus, our investments are focused on achieving a obtained through incentive laws. This capital we undertook a complete review of the strategy for this purpose – to improve lives through solid partnerships is materialized in projects that contribute action by actively listening to our stakeholders – leaders, for the sustainable development of AES Tietê and its to transform local realities and promote employees, customers and community representatives. surrounding communities. The projects supported must sustainable development in a structured way. Objective To improve lives through strong partnerships for the sustainable development of AES Tietê and its surrounding communities. Supporting local Education and Productive Cross-cutting development awareness inclusion themes Promoting culture Environmental preservation Supporting the facilitation of access to water Innovation Encouraging sports and protection Qualification of production for Sustainability Protecting and defending rights Encouragement of youth subsistence Energy protagonism Strengthening of associativism and cooperativism Objective Objective To contribute to the development of the territory To help future generations Objective through the promotion of to be more aware of and To contribute to the economic culture, sports and human rights protagonist in the changes in development and autonomy of the in all phases of life. their surroundings. communities surrounding our assets. Ways of acting Active listening | Building partnerships | Diversity Public Communities of the municipalities of the power plants’ and offices’ areas of influence Volunteering 65 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Geração+ Impulso empreendedor The Geração+ Project promotes the The Impulso Empreendedor Project, engagement of students and teachers from carried out in the city of Promissão (State of public schools in research and exploration São Paulo), was developed in 2018 and 2019 actions focused on four pillars: wildlife and and aimed at strengthening the management of flora, solid waste, electricity and leisure and family farmers, assisting participants in strategic safety. For each theme, participants develop planning and development of business plans, in research activities that strengthen reading, addition to accompanying them during practical writing, artistic expression, observation and implementation. critical sense skills. As a result of the project, in 2019, the In 2019, we worked in 13 schools in the Regional Cooperative of Producers in municipalities of Promissão, Sabino, Brejo the Northwest of the State of São Paulo Alegre, Guaimbê, Ubarana, José Bonifácio (COOPREN) formalized the first contract, with and Adolfo – in the state of São Paulo – with the Municipality of Birigui, in the amount of the participation of 3,126 students and BRL 1.3 million, to supply 150 tons of fruit, 209 elementary school teachers. grains and vegetables for school meals. Pulsar The Pulsar Project promotes the training of young people between 14 and 18 years old who study in State Technical Schools (ETECs) through workshops that stimulate the culture of entrepreneurship and the aggregation of knowledge about energy. In 2019 the initiative was implemented in the State of São Paulo, in the municipalities of Barra Bonita, Ibitinga and Jaú, and in the State of Bahia, in a municipal school of Igaporã. Students go through a training process to develop impactful business models involving clean and sustainable energy sources. At the end of training, the participating students present their projects in a Demoday to a judging panel, which elects the three best, awarded with a visit to our Guaimbê Solar Complex. In the last year, more than a thousand students participated in the actions. 66 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Social investment Pillar Project Area of influence No. of beneficiaries Resources invested* Origin of resources Education and Pulsar Project Barra Bonita, Ibitinga and 129 students BRL 207,408.00 Own resources Awareness Training workshops and other activities Jaú (State of São Paulo) focused on strengthening the entrepreneurial and Igaporã (State of culture of social impact and energy in Bahia) technical schools in the interior of São Paulo, in partnership with Impact Hub and Centro Paula Souza. Geração+ Adolfo, Brejo Alegre, 3,126 students BRL 369,330.00 Own resources Mobilization of students and teachers from Guaimbê, José Bonifácio, and 209 teachers public schools to create a network guided Promissão, Sabino and by the values and ideals of sustainability, Ubarana (State of addressing the following topics: waste São Paulo) management, wildlife and flora, leisure and safety and electrical energy. Productive Sustainable Beekeeping Itatinga 80 beekeepers BRL 110,761.15 Own resources Inclusion Strengthening the management of (State of São Paulo) the Polo Cuesta Beekeepers Association, so that they expand the commercialization of their products and use the areas of Atlantic Rainforest and Cerrado restored by AES Tietê. *The projects invested through incentivized resources received contributions in December 2019 to carry out the initiatives in 2020. The other projects were carried out in the same year as the investments (2019). 67 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Pillar Project Area of influence No. of beneficiaries Resources invested* Origin of resources Support Municipal Councils for the Rights of Children Barra Bonita, Boraceia, 977 served BRL 380,000.00 Funds Received – for Local and Adolescents Buritama, Lins, Mococa, FUMCAD (Municipal Development Support for registered social projects, Ouroeste and Promissão Fund for the Rights according to the priorities and norms established (State of São Paulo) of Children and by the Council. Adolescents) Municipal Councils of the Elderly Buritama, Mococa 106 served BRL 380,000.00 Funds Received – Support to registered social projects, according and Promissão (State IMF (Municipal Elderly to the priorities and rules established by the of São Paulo) Fund) Council. Cine at Praça Caetité, Guanambi, About 3,500 BRL 300,000.00 Funds Received – Screening of outdoor films in public squares and Igaporã and Pindaí people per Federal Culture holding of workshops to revitalize the squares with (State of Bahia) municipality Incentive Law the involvement of youth and children. Reading Corners Two municipalities About 500 BRL 200,000.00 Funds Received – Implementation of a space, with a small reform to be defined people per Federal Culture and adaptations, to offer 1,200 books, technical municipality Incentive Law material on recycling, sustainability and environment for the school community. Reading in the Countryside Two municipalities About 500 BRL 200,000.00 Funds Received – Implementation of a space, with small reforms to be defined people per Federal Culture and adaptations, to offer 1,200 books, technical municipality Incentive Law material on recycling, sustainability and environment for the rural school community. Public Network Teachers Training Caetité, Guanambi, 80 educators BRL 330,000.00 Funds Received – Training in educational sport management for Igaporã and Pindaí Federal Sports Law educators and public managers with the aim of (State of Bahia) promoting the principles of inclusion, diversity, collective construction, integral education and autonomy in their communities. *The projects invested through incentivized resources received contributions in December 2019 to carry out the initiatives in 2020. The other projects were carried out in the same year as the investments (2019). 68 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annexes to the Report Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Complement to GRI disclosures 102-8 and 102-41 | Information on employees and other workers 102-48 | Restatements of information and Collective bargaining agreements Any data restatements, which differ from those 100% of our employees are covered by collective labor agreements or conventions. reported in previous years, are indicated in the All our employees work full-time and under open-ended contracts. respective occurrences Number of employees by gender and region* 102-50, 102-51 and 102-52 | Reporting 2019 2018 2017 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total period, Date of most recent report and Northeast 6 3 9 7 2 9 at at at Reporting cycle The Report, published annually in conjunction Southeast 333 106 439 341 104 445 338 50 428 with the Financial Statements of our company, TOTAL 339 109 448 348 106 454 338 90 428 covers the period from January 1 to December *We also have 10 apprentices (4 men and 6 women) 31, 2019. The last edition was published in 2019, referring to the year of 2018. 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-13 | Membership of associations (Absolar); Brazilian Association of Power Storage Comments, suggestions and questions about We participate in several sector entities, which and Quality (Abaque); “Brazilian Association of the content of the publication can be sent to contribute to the debate of key issues in the Independent Power Producers (Apine); Energy and sustentabilidade@aes.com. markets where we operate and to the sharing of Climate Working Groups and SDG of the Global good practices. This engagement is also relevant Compact; and Sindienergia. 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance to the defense of common interests on the with the GRI Standards public agenda and to disseminate the company’s 102-45 | Entities included in the This Report was prepared in accordance with the sustainability vision. Among the main entities in consolidated financial statements GRI Standards: Essential option. which we are present, we highlight: American The data encompasses all of our businesses (AES Chamber of Commerce (Amcham); Brazilian Wind Tietê and subsidiary companies), in line with 102-56 | External assurance Power Association (Abeeólica); Brazilian Association our Financial Statements, except for justified The Report was subject to external verification, of Electric Power Generation Companies (Abrage); exceptions in the respective disclosures. as in previous years. See the assurance report on Brazilian Association of Photovoltaic Solar Power page 79. 70 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 302-1 and 302-3 | Energy consumption within 405-1 | Diversity of governance bodies and employees the organization and Energy intensity The Board of Directors was composed, at the end of 2019, of five men and one woman. In 2019, internal electricity consumption totaled One member was between 41 and 50 years old and the others were over 51 years of 45.6 thousand MWh, a 9% reduction compared to age. In the staff, women occupied 22.5% of the leadership positions (coordinators the previous year. The energy intensity index, which and above). In addition, we had 10 disabled people on the teams, five of them in measures the relationship between this consumption administrative areas and the other five in the operation. and our installed capacity, was 71.18 MWh/MW, reflecting the same reduction in absolute consumption. Composition of functional levels by gender in 2019 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity Men Women In 2019, the emission intensity index, which Executive Board 81.8% 18.2% measures the relationship between this impact and Management 79.2% 20.8% our installed capacity, was 0.35 tCO2e / MW, Coordination 75.0% 25.0% considering only scope 1. This performance Administrative 55.5% 44.5% is equivalent to a 37.9% reduction in annual comparison. From the perspective of scopes 1 and 2 Operational 99.4% 0.6% combined, the emission intensity index was 0.85 tCO2e / MW, 61.8% less than in the previous Composition of functional levels by age group in 2019 year. It should be noted that these values are Up to 30 Between 31 and Between 41 and Over 51 years old 40 years old 50 years old years old preliminary, due to the process of preparing the inventory of greenhouse gases, which depends on Executive Board 0.0% 27.3% 63.6% 9.1% the calculation tool of the GHG Protocol Brazilian Management 4.2% 62.5% 8.3% 25.0% Program, whose launch is scheduled for April 2020. Coordination 12.5% 37.5% 37.5% 12.5% Administrative 32.1% 46.4% 14.4% 7.2% 403-7 and 403-8 | Prevention and mitigation of Operational 12.8% 34.3% 24.4% 28.5% occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships and Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 413-1 | Operations with local community AES Tietê’s commercial partners, only the outsourced engagement, impact assessments, and contractors, are exposed to health and safety risks. All development programs the professionals of these companies, as well as the All units are covered by social investment initiatives company’s employees, are covered by the Integrated and community engagement mechanisms. Management System. 71 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 403-2 and 403-9 | Hazard identification, risk assessment, and employee of the contractor. The guard received all the incident investigation and Work-related injuries support from AES Tietê and the company to which he has In 2019, we had no accidents with our own employees. Regarding a direct employment relationship. This occurrence is being service providers, there were 16 occurrences and one of them was more investigated by the local authorities, but we have received serious in the Alto Sertão II Wind Complex. There was an attempted information that it is not related to our activities. murder against the guard of the AES Tietê unit in the city of Guanambi (Bahia), with gunshots from outside the access gate and which hit the Health and safety indicators for own employees by region* 2019 2018 2017 Northeast Southeast Total Number of accidents 0 0 0 1 1 Days lost/debted 0 0 0 125 0 Man-hours worked 21,053 983,646 1,004,699 1,054,545 903,493 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 0 Frequency rate of accidents with and without lost time 0 0 0 0.95 1.11 High severity accident frequency rate 0 0 0 nd nd Fatal accident frequency rate 0 0 0 nd nd Severity rate 0 0 0 118.53 0 *Data reported in accordance with NBR 14.280. We do not have gender segmentation due to the unavailability of man-hours worked in this format. Health and safety indicators for third parties by region* 2019 2018 2017 Northeast Southeast Total Northeast Southeast Northeast Southeast Number of accidents 1 15 16 0 15 1 5 Days lost/debted 4,660 142 4,802 0 14 4 7 Man-hours worked 223,211 1,753,895 1,977,106 277,332 1,696,517 105,266 1,203,537 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Frequency rate of accidents with and without lost time 4 9 8 0 9 4 5 High severity accident frequency rate 4 9 8 nd nd nd nd Fatal accident frequency rate 0 0 0 nd nd nd nd Severity rate 20,877 81 2,429 0 8 6 94 *Data reported in accordance with NBR 14.280. We do not have gender segmentation due to the unavailability of man-hours worked in this format. 72 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 EU8 | Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development Resources applied in Scientific and Technological Research and Development (BRL thousand) 2019 2018 2017 By research topics (Research and Development Manual ANEEL) BRL thousand FA Alternative sources of electricity generation 2,135.60 3,838.31 2,454.69 MA Environment 96.68 1,020.92 1,465.53 SE Safety 375.15 -26.64 507.61 EE Energy Efficiency 1,971.32 2,319.28 56.16 PL Electric Power Systems Planning 792.00 515.83 32.84 SC Supervision, Control and Protection of Electrical Power Systems 2,094.12 901.49 2,458.31 QC Quality and Reliability of Electric Power Services 0.00 0.00 13.96 R&D Management 221.30 300.08 408.68 Other 224.80 46.18 431.46 TOTAL 7,910.97 8,915.45 7,829.24 73 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 EU30 | Average plant Length of downtimes per unit (hours) in 2019 Average availability factor per unit (%) in 2019 availability factor by energy Scheduled Unplanned 2019 Hydroelectric Hydroelectric source and by regulatory Água Vermelha 620.6 97.8 Água Vermelha 98.6 regime Bariri 1,684.7 566.2 Bariri 91.4 The availability of hydroelectric Barra Bonita 2,008.8 101.2 Barra Bonita 93.9 power plants was higher in 2019 Caconde 258.8 93.7 Caconde 98.0 mainly due to the 16.4% reduction Euclides da Cunha 1,664.0 122.8 Euclides da Cunha 94.9 in unscheduled downtime, reflecting Ibitinga 8,803.1 269.6 Ibitinga 65.5 the solidity and continuity of the Limoeiro 601.8 248.3 Limoeiro 95.1 asset management system. In the Nova Avanhandava 1,682.2 229.7 Nova Avanhandava 92.7 Alto Sertão II Wind Complex, the Promissão 154.9 27.4 Promissão 99.3 improvement was also important, PCH Mogi Guaçu 730.2 126.8 PCH Mogi Guaçu 95.1 as there was a 15.9% reduction in PCH São Joaquim 8,760.0 0.0 PCH São Joaquim 0.0 unscheduled stops and an increase PCH São José 12,587.0 680.6 PCH São José 24.3 in the time dedicated to preventive TOTAL 39,556.0 2,564.1 GENERAL 95.2 maintenance, replacing the Wind (Alto Sertão II Wind Complex) Wind (Alto Sertão II Wind Complex) corrective with the preventive with Da Prata 591.3 3,834.8 Da Prata 96.1 a substantial improvement thinking Dos Araçás 1,276.0 9,865.8 Dos Araçás 93.3 about business sustainability. V Nordeste 892.3 6,063.5 V Nordeste 94.3 Tanque 901.7 2,346.8 Tanque 97.9 Morrão 916.3 5,530.4 Morrão 95.9 Seraíma 1,634.6 7,565.6 Seraíma 94.2 Maron 900.4 2,246.5 Maron 98.0 Pilões 887.9 4,322.4 Pilões 96.7 Ametista 883.0 2,239.7 Ametista 97.9 Dourados 791.6 2,058.9 Dourados 98.1 Caetité 933.0 4,548.1 Caetité 96.5 S. do Espinhaço 621.1 6,445.5 S. do Espinhaço 92.7 Espigão 364.0 3,401.5 Espigão 92.8 Borgo 546.5 1,049.7 Borgo 98.5 Pelourinho 699.5 2,213.5 Pelourinho 97.4 TOTAL 12,839.2 63,732.7 GENERAL 96.2 Solar Solar Boa Hora 0.0 544.9 Boa Hora 93.8 Guaimbê 0.0 248.1 Guaimbê 97.2 TOTAL 0.0 793.0 TOTAL 96.1 74 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 | Name of the organization 6 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 6 and 7 102-3 | Location of headquarters 7 102-4 | Location of operations 7 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 16 102-6 | Markets served 6 and 7 102-7 | Scale of the organization 12 and 41 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 9 and 70 6 GRI 102 | 102-9 | Supply chain 22 General disclosures 2016 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 62 102-12 | External initiatives 23 and 24 102-13 | Membership of associations 70 Strategy 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 3 and 4 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 28, 29 and 33 Ethics and integrity 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 19 and 43 10 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 44 10 Governance 102-18 | Governance structure 17 75 GRI 102-55 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Stakeholder engagement 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 23 and 26 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 70 3 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 23 and 26 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 23 and 26 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 24 and 25 Reporting practice 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 70 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 23 and 24 GRI 102 | 102-47 | List of material topics 24 and 25 General disclosures 2016 102-48 | Restatements of information 70 102-49 | Changes in reporting 24 102-50 | Reporting period 70 102-51 | Date of most recent report 70 102-52 | Reporting cycle 70 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 70 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 70 102-55 | GRI content index 75, 76, 77 and 78 102-56 | External assurance 70 and 79 GRI Electric utilities sector EU1 | Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 12 and 13 supplement 2013 EU2 | Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 12 and 13 Material topic Economic and operational performance GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 14, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 35 performance 2016 201-2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 61 7 GRI Electric utilities sector EU6 | Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity 20 and 21 supplement 2013 availability and reliability EU30 | Average plant availability factor by energy source and by 38 and 74 regulatory regime GRI 102-55 76 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic Ethical and responsible management GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10, 11, 25, 43, 44, 45 and 46 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 10, 11, 43, 44, 45 and 46 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 10, 11, 14, 43, 44, 45 and 46 GRI 205 | Anti205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 43 and 44 10 corruption 2016 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 44 10 GRI 403 | 403-1 | Occupational health and safety management system 45 Occupational 403-2 | Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 45, 46 and 72 health and safety 403-3 | Occupational health services 46 2018 403-4 | Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 46 403-5 | Worker training on occupational health and safety 46 403-6 | Promotion of worker health 46 403-7 | Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 71 linked by business relationships 403-8 | Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 71 403-9 | Work-related injuries 45 and 72 GRI 404 | 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 10 6 Training and 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 11 6 education 2016 career development reviews GRI 405 | 405-1 | Diversity of governance bodies and employees 71 6 Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 GRI 406 | Non406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 44 6 discrimination 2016 GRI Electric utilities EU18 |Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone 46 sector supplement relevant health and safety training 2013 Material topic Customer satisfaction GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 48, 49 and 50 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 48, 49 and 50 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 14, 48, 49 and 50 77 GRI 102-55 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic Energy intelligence GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 52 and 53 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 52 and 53 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 14, 52 and 53 GRI Electric utilities EU8 | Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable 52, 53 and 73 sector supplement electricity and promoting sustainable development 2013 Material topic Accessibility GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 and 55 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 55 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 14 and 55 Material topic Socio-environmental impact GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67 and 68 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67 and 68 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 14, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67 and 68 GRI 302 | Energy 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 59, 60 and 71 7e8 2016 302-3 | Energy intensity 71 8 GRI 304 | 304-2 | Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 63 and 64 8 Biodiversity 2016 GRI 305 | Emissions 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 60 7e8 2016 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 60 7e8 305-3 | Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 60 7e8 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity 71 8 GRI 413 | Local 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 58, 65, 66, 67, 68 and 71 1 communities 2016 and development programs 413-2 | Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 57 and 58 1 GRI Electric utilities EU21 | Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and 57 and 58 sector supplement training programs, and recovery/restoration plans 2013 EU25 | Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets including 58 legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases 78 GRI 102-55 Ethical and SocioAES Tietê Message from We are Governance Business Economic and operational responsible Customer Energy environmental the CEO AES Tietê and strategy model performance management satisfaction intelligence Accessibility impact Annexes Sustainability Report 2019 Assurance statement DECL DECLARAÇÃO DA S We recognize AES Tietê is commitment and dedicated ATIVIDADES effort in DE SUS STATEMENT BY SGS ICS CERTIFICADORA LTDA. (SGS) IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE STATEMENT REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES The SGS Group is global lead in inspection, analysis and 2018”toDA seeking new opportunities to improve its internal activities addAES TIETÊ E PROVIDED IN “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” GIVEN TO verifications services, operating in more than 140 countries and sustainable value to the company. The review and significant change AES TIETÊ ENERGIA S.A rendering services that includes management system certification, in the material topics presented in the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORTE ESCOPO DA NATUREZA audits and trainings on quality, environmental, social and ethic 2019” reaffirmed AES Tietê is commitment to sustainability A SGS foi and its contratada pela AES T NATURE AND SCOPE OF ASSURANCE segments, sustainability assurance reports and greenhouse gases stakeholders 2019. O escopo de asseguração, verification. The SGS attests your independence against AES TIETÊ, In terms of contribution to improvement and development incluiu a verificação dos disclosur The SGS was hired by AES TIETÊ to carry out the third-party stating that is exempt from interest conflict with the organization, of future sustainability reports and to more-effective assurance process, we recommend to AES TIETÊ that: As informações do “RELATÓRIO assurance of their Sustainability Report 2019. The assurance scope, their subsidiary and stakeholders. based on assurance methodology of sustainability reports of SGS, The assurance team was composed according to members’ 1. Disclose the goals and targets for all material issues.das In estruturas our opinion de gestão da AES relatório tais como análises de the report should be used as information source of sustainability comprises the disclosure verification under GRI standards in 2019. expertise, experience and competence for this activity, the team is negativamente os negócios da AE for the stakeholders and grounding their decision making The information provided in “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” and composed of: GRI e os seus 2. Promote better the disclosure and take advantage internally textos, dados, gráf of the its presentation is a sole responsibility of AES TIETÊ management • Lead Auditor for Sustainability Assurance Report, Lead auditor for partes interessadas thoughts taken from new materialization process performed in da AES Tietê structure. The SGS is not involved in the preparation of any material, socioenvironmental programs, lead auditor for greenhouse gases. including the in the said report, such as risk analysis, materiality • Auditor for Sustainability Assurance report, Lead auditor for order to mature the contact points to the stakeholder for future O Grupo SGS desenvolveu um co tests and other critical issues that may affect severally the AES TIETÊ socioenvironmental programs progress toward the sustainability. se nas melhores práticas aprese business. We are liable for giving our opinion of the GRI disclosures 3. For the reporting context, keep searching for a summarized report, and their texting, data, charts and statement within the assurance ASSURANCE OPINION without poor content. Try to highlight the relevantISAE3000. Estes protocolos dão d gains of the da Organização Declarante, neste scope in order to keep the AES TIETÊ stakeholders informed. A broad assurance was ordered, and the work carried out was sustainability area that consolidate itself against the management The SGS Group has developed a set of assurance protocols for enough and appropriate to a robust assurance. Regarding the and strategy every year. Este relatório foi assegurado utiliz Sustainability Communication based on the best practices provided verification performed on methodology, process and data provided 4. Search to involve issues related to diversity, promoting the com os aspectos de requirement in GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the assurance by AES TIETÊ, we attest the information and data provided on interaction and engagement of minority or vulnerable groups, também com os requirements do standard ISAE3000. Such protocols offer different assurance levels disclosures of “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” are reliable and in order to create an inclusive management and the maturing of materiais identificados pela AES T depending on context and capacity of organization, in this case AES a true and accurate representation of the sustainability activities relations between the organization and the groups. o suplemente setorial do GRI G4 TIETÊ. performed by AES TIETÊ in reference year 2019. The assurance team 2019” caracteriza-se como Nível This report was assured considering our protocols to assess the thinks the report can be used by company’s stakeholders as part of Finally, SGS congratulates AES TIETÊ for the initiative of carrying content authenticity and its alignment with the requirements of GRI their processes of company evaluation. The organization selected the out the assurance of their report, for the historical commitment to O processo de asseguração com Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, 102 Core Option, which meets their needs. sustainability and wish the significant advances on thispreliminar mattersemare diagramação do re and 103) and the requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, In our opinion, based on preliminary report that was checked at the kept over the coming years. compreensão dos dados do relat GRI 300 and GRI 400) according to the material issues identified company head office in São Paulo and on material provided by AES materiais e (ii) revisão de docume by AES TIETÊ through our process detailed herein. Furthermore, the TIETÊ, the report content meets fully the GRI Standard requirements da AES Tietê contidas e/ou refer sectorial disclosures GRI G4 Electric Utilities. Based on this context, including those from sectorial disclosures Electric Utilities. February 20th, 2019 foram avaliadas como parte deste the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” is considered as “Core option”. The assurance process comprised (i) the disclosure review, RECOMMENDATIONS, FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS OF Executed by and on behalf of SGS DECLARAÇÃO DE INDEPENDÊ information and data provided in sustainability draft (ii) interviews ASSURANCE O Grupo de empresas da SGS é with strategic employees, both to understand the report data and to The disclosures of AES TIETÊ Report, “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fabian Peres Gonçalves países e prestando serviços que understand the management process connected with the material 2019”, is aligned with Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Business Manager Sustainability qualidade, ambiental, social e étic issues and (ii) desktop review of the documents forwarded by AES Standards 101, 102 and 103) and with the requirements of TopicA SGS afirma sua independência TIETÊ to SGS. The AES TIETÊ accounting information and or detailed specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400), Core Option. It Caio César Ferreira de Faria suas subsidiárias e partes interes in reference list of “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” were not is also important to declare that the material aspects and their limits Lead Auditor for Sustaianbility Report assessed in this assurance process. were properly set according to Reporting Principles and indicated A equipe de asseguração foi form over the report. composta por:  Auditor Líder de Assegu Auditor líder de Gases  Auditor de Asseguração 79 GRI 102-56 Credits Overall coordination José Antônio Martins Institutional Relations, Communication and Sustainability Manager Content Coordination Andrea Santoro Sustainability and Social Responsability Coordinator GRI consulting, editorial coordination and design usina82 Photography AES Tietê collection Headquarters AES Tietê Energia S.A. Av. das Nações Unidas, 12.495 12th floor Brooklin Paulista São Paulo (SP)
