COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: to 10th of February 2020 To 10thTo: of February 2021 : February 2029 Fe 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORTbrBY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) ua ry Please use the box below to include the statement 20 of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 29 10th of February 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Imperial Healthcare Institute reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Our goals on SDG 3 (Good Health and Well Being) and SDG 8 (Economic Growth) are progressing steadily. We are looking to work with U.A.E Health Authorities to establish a committee on sustainability which we will lead to help drive this SDG not just within our organization but also within the healthcare community of the country. We are actively supporting the UNGC principles and SDGs through our Board presence on the Global Compact Local Network UAE which we remain completely committed to. We are currently prioritizing work on SDG 4 (Quality Education), particularly 4.7 by increasing awareness of Sustainable Development particularly amongst the entrepreneurial community in the UAE and globally. We’ve achieved this by organizing and speaking at various events locally and internationally including at the United Nations Headquarters in New York to help increase awareness amongst entrepreneurs of the sustainable development goals and how to help them further their sustainability journey. We are very aware of the 10 year countdown to achieve the 2030 agenda and have taken this to heart not just in our organization but to help drive sustainability progress in our circle of influence and beyond. Sincerely yours, Professor Dr. Vinod Gauba Chairman 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: • Ensure that workers are treated in fair and justifiable manner. • Workers have the freedom to express their beliefs. • Ensure that every worker have the freedom of speech • All workers should be treated with respect. • Giving assistance to family. • Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities • Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: • Ensure that employees are given annual vacation and sick leaves with pay. • Employers must give their employees a place to work and make sure they have access to it. They must give them the tools, equipment and other things they need to do their work • All workers are provided with medical insurance. • A return ticket at the expense of the employer • Not employing workers less than 18 years of age. • Comply with minimum wage standards. • Right to obtain copy of employment contract • Right to receive treatment and compensation due to occupational hazards. • Right to end of service gratuity. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: • Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system • Waste segregation procedures to prevent puncture wounds and cross transmission of bloodborne pathogens and body fluids. • Implementation of chemical dispensing systems • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances. • Recycling Advocate (minimizing paper usage) Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: • By being conspicuously transparent, operating with integrity and accountability in all operations • By listing who the real beneficial owners of their company and their subsidiaries are, and by promoting with governments the establishment of public registers of beneficial owners • Constant communication inside the company in relation to financial side. • Developing policies and strategies. • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners. • Governance, monitoring, and internal control. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • Data analysis and interpretation of collected data • Weekly reports. • Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Recording and analyzing the affectivity of strategies implemented. • Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism • Percentage of recycled materials
