Message from the CEO.................................................................2 About GLOBAL CSR ......................................................................3 Our Work .................................................................................................. 3 Our Vision ................................................................................................. 4 Our Mission .............................................................................................. 4 General information and procedures ...........................................5 Policy Commitment .....................................................................6 Due Diligence ..............................................................................7 Social Sustainability .................................................................................. 7 Environmental Sustainability ................................................................... 8 Economic Sustainability............................................................................ 8 Contribution to Sustainable Development....................................9 1 maintain focus on the minimum standard as an essential part of UNGC’s M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO efforts to promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Whereas the latter goals are important, they cannot be used for holding businesses Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. As a given, we act accountable towards humans, the environment or principles for in accordance with the principles we advise clients to apply. We believe anticorruption. that the internationally agreed upon principles for sustainable To put the principles into practice, we rely on the enthusiasm and development add needed quality to the field of CSR. The Principlescreativity of our clients, associates and relationships to inspire other Based Approach to CSR enables us to address impacts in areas essential businesses to implement the UNGPs / OECD Guidelines in a practical and to sustainable social, environmental and economic development, in line pragmatic manner. with the international minimum standard for responsible business conduct. The management system designed by the UN Guiding Principles from 2011 provides for cost-efficient and scalable approaches to manage adverse impacts on the internationally agreed principles. It is my pleasure to present our 8th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. GLOBAL CSR was established as a consultancy in 1998. The report describes our top priorities for action and provides information on our CSR performance in 2018. The report also includes our objectives for the Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO future. It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute to, whilst managing adverse impacts on, internationally agreed principles for sustainable social, environmental and economic development. We continue to use the UN Global Compact (UNGC) framework, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD Guidelines to provide for a consistent and transparent system for managing adverse CSR impacts. We hope to influence the UNGC to 2 GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of CSR A BOUT GLOBAL CSR implementation from policy development impact assessments, risk & GLOBAL CSR is a privately-owned consultancy firm located in opportunity analyses, vision statements, strategies, capacity Copenhagen, Denmark. We are leading in Corporate Social Responsibility development, project design, action planning, implementation (CSR) and specialise in creating sustainable solutions for private (prevention, mitigation and remediation), responsible sourcing, companies, public authorities and organisations in a range of countries responsible investments, responsible distribution and accounting, and and industries. Since 1998, GLOBAL CSR has carried out assignments in annual reporting. Additionally, our team has vast experience in evaluating all parts of the world. both corporate and public programmes. GLOBAL CSR is recognised as leading expert on the application of the UN Our comprehensive understanding of business realities, in most sectors Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). and for all sizes of businesses, allows us to fully address the needs and wishes of our clients. Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer advice that leads to long term sustainable solutions for our customers and the society. We only support CSR activities where adverse impacts on sustainable development are genuinely managed. Our Work GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing and implementing strategies in line with internationally recognised principles covering the triple bottom line of sustainability. We call this The Principles-Based Approach to CSR. Our goal is to continue developing innovative and cost-effective solutions and tools to address impacts on sustainability, enabling our customers to fully benefit from their investments in CSR. Our primary goal consists of leveraging best practices in meeting the globally agreed minimum standard for responsible business conduct – i.e. the UNGPs, including as they are repeated in the OECD Guidelines. 3 Our Vision We envision a world of social, environmental and economic sustainability; New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment in which all human beings enjoy the full realisation of their human rights in appreciation of their diversity. A world where businesses live by With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact principles essential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, for Assessments need to be developed. To our knowledge, no pre-2011 humanity – and for economic development. practices or tools were aligned with the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR has conducted extensive research in the area since 1998. The UNGPs require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the Our Mission International Bill of Human Rights (UNGP 12). When conducting the assessment on all 48 rights in all business units, we are expected to GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive sustainable engage – as a minimum – with affected stakeholders (UNGP 18). development. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred partner in GLOBAL CSR reviewed the few publicly available assessments. It advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and nonappears that companies seek to meet the new requirements by governmental organisations on how to make core international principles applying pre-2011 approaches. As an example, some assessments for sustainable development operational and pragmatic. seek to predetermine the scope to a few human rights only (typically labour rights, thereby addressing impacts on max. 8-12 human GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: rights). Some assessments combine a limited scope of rights with a • Performing work for sustainable development based on the Triple preconceived notion of typical human rights impacts from a certain Bottom Line: Social, environmental and economic sustainability. ‘business function’. Finally, some assessments focus attention to pre• Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and organisations defined issues involving human rights aspects, such as migration, land in developing and implementing responsible business conduct and issues, etc., rather than adopting a rights-based approach. contributing to sustainable development qualified by international GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations appear to principles. outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. Considering that • Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering innovative, assessments have to take place in all operational units and with cost-effective and simple solutions, which create value for our regular intervals, such practice will not be sustainable. Focus should customers. be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct assessments. Companies need to empower local management to take responsibility and ownership of the process. 4 All companies, regardless of place and context of operations, will have G ENERAL INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES both potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed in June 2011, the world’s businesses received an authoritative, globally All companies are managing such impacts to some degree; for instance recognised reference point for respecting human rights, including the core through efforts to create safe and healthy working conditions for labour rights. employees. CSR Compliance consists of identifying potential and actual impacts and showing what we do to manage such impacts. This refers to The UNGPs describe what is to be expected from any business in the world social sustainability, composed of all human rights, as well as in terms of managing adverse impacts on human rights, i.e. the rights environmental and economic sustainability. referenced in the first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact. Over the last years, GLOBAL CSR has been working on a cloud-based tool Human Rights are essential for the dignity, well-being and development to conduct CSR due diligence. This tool is to incorporate Human Rights, of all people. Respecting human rights in business is defined by having a Environmental and Economic areas and principles. The tool is to be management system in place, that as a minimum, meets the standard launched in the beginning of 2020. outlined by the UNGPs. The UNGPs enable all businesses to know their potential and actual adverse impacts and to show what they are doing to Our impact assessments show that we did not cause or contribute to any address such impacts. The management system of the UNGPs is copied severe adverse impacts in 2018. The nature of our business is to assist directly into the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD), businesses in managing their adverse impacts on human rights. Thus, where principles for economic and environmental sustainability are naturally, we are directly linked to severe adverse impacts on human additionally covered. rights. However, our role as advisors is to assist and enable other businesses to manage their responsibility. Thus, we assist businesses in Our Corporate Social Responsibility Report demonstrates how GLOBAL preventing or mitigating adverse impacts, as well as use our leverage to CSR implements the UNGPs. Thus, ensuring respect for human rights make businesses stop actual severe adverse impacts where we learn of within the organisation. We also show how meet our social and economic them in our value chain. Our legal privilege as registered attorney enables responsibility, aligned with the OECD Guidelines for multinational us to keep sensitive information from clients confidential. Enterprises.We strive to inspire other businesses to do the same. Additionally, we outline where we work beyond compliance in the final section of this report. 5 CSR commitment in the daily work of both our employees and P OLICY C OMMITMENT management through training, communication and ongoing assessments. Our policy commitment pervades all aspects of our business conduct and We always appreciate good ideas for how to identify, prevent and mitigate is publicly available at our website. our negative impacts on sustainable development as well as to make a GLOBAL CSR Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) positive impact. At GLOBAL CSR, we have developed our expertise in the field of Our expectations to business relationships responsible business conduct. We advise businesses on how to respect We expect all of our business relationships to meet the globally agreed Human Rights, together with managing environmental and economic minimum standard for responsible business conduct as expressed in this sustainability. All in full alignment with the global minimum standard for commitment. Business relationships shall implement the UNGPs/OECD; responsible business conduct. i.e. manage risks of adverse impact in relation to human rights, the Sustainability – The Triple Bottom Line environment, and anti-corruption, and share their results with relevant Our commitment is based on the internationally agreed core principles for stakeholders. We also expect them to ask the same from their sustainable development; human rights (including labour rights), relationships. Information of severe impacts shall be communicated to us environment (including climate), and anti-corruption. The principles are promptly. listed by the UN Global Compact and made operational through the UN Integration Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD This policy commitment is reflected in all other policies, guidelines, and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD). procedures in GLOBAL CSR. We encourage our employees and other Our commitment means that we continuously identify, prevent and stakeholders to inform us about challenges on human rights, the mitigate our risks of adverse impacts in the area of human rights, environment, or anti-corruption associated with our services, products or environment and anti-corruption. We manage this through impact business relationships. assessments in these areas, and we communicate how we manage Policy Commitment development adverse impacts to relevant stakeholders. This policy is developed with assistance of internal experts and approved Our expectations to employees by the founder and CEO. The policy commitment is communicated both Our employees are key partners in helping us respect international internally and externally. The policy will be reviewed and, if necessary, principles for sustainable development. We expect all team members at revised every second year reflecting our progress in implementation. GLOBAL CSR to assist us in honouring our commitment. We embed our 6 D UE D ILIGENCE Social Sustainability GLOBAL CSR regularly conducts impact assessments on human rights, We have identified non-severe adverse impacts on 15 of 48 human rights. the environment and on anticorruption. They are conducted with the We take actions to prevent and mitigate all of such impacts. The list below engagement of our employees accommodating the UNGPs criteria of provides an overview of rights where potential adverse impacts on human meaningful participation of the potentially affected stakeholders in rights were identified by our firm. identifying adverse impacts. This also serves as a way to further develop • 2. Right to non-discrimination • 7.a Right to protection of employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and OECD. Employees assist in • 3. Right to work mothers before and after addressing identified adverse impacts by presenting ideas for improving • 4.b Right to a living wage childbirth the efforts of GLOBAL CSR. • 4.c Right to safe and healthy • 10. Right to education The first step of the due diligence process is identification of potential and working conditions • 11.d Moral rights of authors actual adverse impacts. We are continuously in dialogue with our • 4.d Right to equal opportunities • 13. A Right to not be subjected employees and clients for the identification process. Whenever we are for everyone to be promoted to degrading treatment made aware of actual adverse impacts in our value chains, we use our • 4.e Right to rest, leisure, and • 23. Right to privacy leverage to make the causing or contributing entity stop the impact and paid holidays • 25.b Right to freedom of act in accordance with the UNGPs and OECD Guidelines. • 5. Right to form and join trade expression unions and the right to strike • 25. C Right to freedom of • 6. Right to social security, information including social insurance Our actions to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts on these rights are continuously tracked to ensure the effectiveness of our measures. As an example of how GLOBAL CSR is managing our adverse impacts, take the right to rest, leisure, and paid holidays. We have identified that we may have adverse impacts on this right, since we are allowing overtime work during delivery of large projects with short deadlines. We are managing the adverse impact by having an agreement in place for weekly working schedules. Furthermore, employees are asked to take 7 time off whenever they have worked overtime. If it in rare cases, is not executives and employees cycle, use public transportation, or carpool as possible to take time off, employees will receive economic compensation the predominant means of transportation. When possible, we have for overtime work. We may also have adverse impacts in relation to not meetings through video and teleconferences, to minimise our use of air ensuring that employees have the opportunity to take vacation. These travel. adverse impacts are managed by providing a specific amount of vacation However, being a consultancy firm that serves clients internationally, we days annually. cannot completely eliminate air travel. Ensuring high quality service often As an example of a right where GLOBAL CSR has no adverse impact a requires that we perform onsite assessments of clients’ operations and human right, we identified no impact in relation to the right to adequate branches. Change management and capacity development are essential housing. We assess that we are not at risk of having an adverse components of our work and both require interpersonal communication impact on this right, as we do not offer or provide any housing, accomand presence. modation, or similar. Our e-learning platform, learnCSR, allows us to decrease the environmental impact of our company and our clients. Our consultants and course participants avoid travelling to specific locations to participate Environmental Sustainability in lessons, as they can enjoy the educational aspects of learnCSR through Companies of every size and type can have adverse impacts on the online technology. Several thousand employees have already been environment through their business operations and activities. When trained through learnCSR, constituting a significant CO2 abatement. preventing and mitigating our adverse impacts on the environment we address the subject areas covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7We endeavour to maintain and expand our position as frontrunners in the 9. field of CSR. This requires that we participate in debates to develop the field, being in contact with relevant authorities and urging all our business “All our executives and employees cycle, use public transportation, or relationships to minimise their environmental impacts. carpool as the predominant means of transportation.” We assess that, as an office environment, we have not identified many Economic Sustainability significant impacts on the environment. However, we recognise that we Economic sustainability entails incorporating contributions to sustainable can have an environmental impact on air emissions due to work travels. development into core business strategies, whilst ensuring that no We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impact by using the functions have adverse impacts. Economic sustainability further extends most environmentally friendly available means of transportation. All our 8 to eliminating negative impacts on the economy, particularly in relation to corruption and bribery. C ONTRIBUTION TO S USTAINABLE We have identified five potential adverse economic impacts. The list below D EVELOPMENT provides an overview of the areas where potential adverse economic Knowledge is our primary resource. The success of our business depends impacts were identified by our firm. on our knowledge, competencies and our abilities to communicate this knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously improve our • Clearly define job duties based on skills, qualifications and experience competencies on CSR and sustainable development in theory as well as • Abstain from cronyism and nepotism in practice. It is important for us to share our knowledge and support the • Offering or accepting gifts beyond stated value (approvals) CSR field in developing better, more cost-efficient and innovative ways to • Trading in influence in relation to business partners, government address global challenges in relation to social, environmental and officials or employees economic sustainability. • Bribes to or corruption of private counterparts GLOBAL CSR is a value-based company, proactive in encouraging positive ” We are experts in identifying both challenges and opportunities norms and values amongst our employees and business relations. We are through direct application of the globally agreed principles for financially transparent and seek to foster an open and transparent culture responsible business conduct.” internally. In addition to having an external accountant, we communicate As a consultancy firm, we assist corporations that are experienced within our budget internally amongst all employees. We consider these practices to be proportionate to our size and the risks that the company faces. the field of CSR, as well as corporations that have only just begun addressing their societal impacts in a structured manner. As we also We are aware that we run higher risks when operating abroad in markets provide services to international corporations, our services span across where local common business practices are considered bribes in a Danish borders. context. Thus, we are diligent in communicating our values as the basis for our business conduct, making sure to build business relationships Moreover, we advise clients to address CSR with their business relations. based on trust and common understanding. This is done upstream (supply chain), downstream (distribution) and with other business relationships, including investments. We assist our clients in directing strategic focus on contributions, whilst complying with the globally agreed minimum standard for social sustainability. This way, we ensure that CSR efforts contribute to sustainable development in the best 9 way possible. We are experts in identifying both challenges and the growing need for education on CSR and the business case for being opportunities through direct application of the globally agreed principles environmentally responsible. for responsible business conduct. Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives only require Two key principles of social sustainability, which we promote through our companies to address the international principles on anti-corruption, we operations and products are: The Right to Education and Freedom of advise our clients in good corporate governance and in dealing with the Information. We contribute to the right to education by sharing our upcoming issue of sustainable tax payments. knowledge through teaching and through advising organisations and GLOBAL CSR contributes to the elimination of corruption through advising initiatives that are key players in the continued development of CSR. We clients on corporate economic responsibilities and opportunities. In promote the right to freedom of information by helping businesses cooperation with our strategic partners, we help our clients strategically with operational principles on how to communicate their commitments implement the 10th principle of the UNGC into their businesses. both internally and externally. GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in and contribute to both GLOBAL CSR continuously works to promote environmental sustainability. national and international debates on the establishment of viable In 2018, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised several Danish and international principles for business to apply when planning and executing international clients on the implementation of principles 7-9 of the UNGC tax payments for international operations. into core business operations. These three principles serve to support precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, undertake new Moreover, GLOBAL CSR persists in the development of practical solutions initiatives on environmental responsibility and to encourage the for applying the UN Guiding Principles in Socially Responsible Investments development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (SRI). We screen companies before investments and assist corporations that invest in businesses in ensuring that their acquired companies meet In 2018, we assisted our clients in meeting growing environmental the minimum standard for responsible business conduct. The UNGPs challenges, requirements and expectations that they face today. We work provide a standardised reference point, thus reducing costs for investors with strategic partners that are leading experts on environmental while contributing to scaling up the corporate responsibility to respect sustainability. We have advised clients in performing environmental human rights. impact assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and water footprint assessments. Additionally, we have participated in, and held several Capacity development on UNGPs and Human Rights seminars and workshops, aiming to raising public awareness and meeting One of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up the responsibility to respect human rights among businesses, remains to be 10 awareness and capacity development. Because of our competencies and The guide Constructive Campaigning, as written by GLOBAL CSR, position in the field, we recognise the important role that GLOBAL CSR continues to assist NGOs and civil society in structuring their campaigning can play in addressing this global challenge. under the global framework for sustainable development. GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR, provides CSR training in an effective, flexible and cost-efficient manner on human rights and the The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs UNGPs; see www.learncsr.com. “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s much easier to blame GLOBAL CSR continues to promote and sell its booklet, Human Rights someone. Limited capacity affects the ability of all stakeholder groups, Explained – for business. The booklet provides employees and including governments, businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their managers with basic understanding of all 48 human rights contained in necessary roles.” the International Bill of Human Rights. Further, concrete scenarios on John Ruggie, December 4th, 2012, UN Forum, Geneva adverse impacts, the application of the UNGPs and positive contributions demonstrate the relevance of all human rights in a business context. The In 2018 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous national as well as booklet is an important tool for businesses seeking to respect human international seminars, workshops, trainings and debates on CSR with a rights and can be purchased from GLOBAL CSR. special emphasis on developing capacity and awareness on the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR has, between 2017 and 2018, been working on further One such presentation was at the annual UN Forum on Business and developments of its cloud-based impact assessment tool. The Human Rights, where we presented the first global examples of updated tool, to be released in 2020, enables businesses to assess documenting due diligence, and benefits of such documentation in adverse impacts on human rights, the environment and economic business relationships. sustainability. It further enables management of business relationships, GLOBAL CSR focuses heavily on investing inand developing tools for such as suppliers. businesses. GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity GLOBAL CSR continues to offer its one-day labs: ‘UNGPs Compliance’, development and training in the UNGPs and human rights; while ‘Human Rights Impact Assessment’ and ‘Responsibility in Business targeting corporations, we also engage government, civil society, Relationships’, which aim to develop the attendants’ CSR capacity. academia and CSR experts. During 2018, we informed and trained more than 200 individuals in the UNGPs, including app. 60 corporate GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debates on business and representatives that received in-depth training. human rights and on the principles-based approach to CSR. We regularly 11 publish articles and participate in national and international working groups related to the 10 UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. We devote time to engage in debates as we believe this brings added value to our clients and to society. Through the mentioned areas, GLOBAL CSR continues to promote social sustainability and the UNGPs in particular. ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be permanently available for download on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, please contact us at info@globalcsr.net or +45 44 99 55 06. 12
