CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS Business model _______________________________________________________________________________________ 3 Our labour policy ______________________________________________________________________________________ 4 Our environmental policy _______________________________________________________________________________ 9 Our social policy ______________________________________________________________________________________ 15 Growth that respects People and the Environment SNF aims to be a key player in the water treatment sector and in all related applications. The many initiatives we have undertaken in recent years to promote Sustainable Development, particularly in the environmental, social and economic fields (energy balance sheet, carbon balance sheet, sustainable development report, social balance sheet, etc.), are closely related to our business activities. Our policy on Sustainable Development is based on our pledge to deliver on our key commitments: ✓ To operate in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, as well as all other applicable requirements at the social and economic levels. ✓ To develop a culture of integrity, loyalty and honesty. ✓ To minimise the environmental impacts of our activities, including by optimising our energy consumption (gas, electricity and water). ✓ To promote measures aimed at preventing environmental degradation, limiting our carbon footprint and reducing our dependence on natural resources. ✓ To raise awareness among employees and partners and encourage them to conduct their activities responsibly. ✓ To provide training tailored to the requirements of each job. ✓ To communicate and inform on the impact of our activities both internally and externally. ✓ To adhere to values inspired by fundamental principles as set out in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the United Nations Global Compact. Delivering on these commitments requires periodic performance reviews, which we publish on a regular basis through information and communication campaigns aimed at all employees and partners. As part of our continuous improvement and prevention process, our goals are periodically reviewed and revised based on the results achieved, new scientific knowledge, new available technologies and changes in the economic and social environment. To achieve these goals, we have defined and implemented Management Systems to ensure compliance with environmental, social and economic standards. Pascal REMY Chief Executive Officer BUSINESS MODEL With its headquarters in France, the SNF group is the world’s To promote measures aimed at preventing environmental largest manufacturer of polyacrylamide, accounting for 47% of degradation, limiting our carbon footprint and reducing our global production and positioned as the market leader on all dependence on natural resources. continents. Our water-soluble polymers are used in the production To continue monitoring performance assessment indicators in of drinking water, wastewater treatment, enhanced oil recovery, the environmental, social and economic fields. mining, the paper industry, agriculture, the textile industry and To raise awareness among employees and partners and cosmetics. A key driving factor for the Group’s activities is the encourage them to conduct their activities responsibly. increasing scarcity of resources, including water, minerals and To prevent corruption. hydrocarbons. We treat the water of more than 750 million people To provide training tailored to the requirements of each job. around the world and help thousands of industrial sites to recycle To communicate and inform both internally and externally on their water. The group manufactures over a thousand products the impact of our activities, including with our customers, to that help preserve natural resources, promote recycling and ensure the proper use of our products and to avoid waste. improve the efficiency of industrial processes. The group has customers in over 130 countries. To make best use of user feedback with the aim of benefiting all companies within the group. To minimise the risks associated with transportation, we have To monitor our barometer in terms of combating psychosocial diversified our industrial sites with our customers at the forefront risks and occupational accidents. of our mind to meet their specific needs. We operate 20 industrial sites on four continents across the world, including six main plants: Delivering on these commitments requires periodic performance reviews, which we publish on a regular basis through information Two in the USA: RICEBORO, Georgia and PLAQUEMINE, and communication campaigns aimed at all employees and Louisiana); partners. As part of our continuous improvement and prevention One in France: ANDREZIEUX; process, our goals are periodically reviewed and revised based on the results achieved, new scientific knowledge, new available One in China: TAIXING; technologies and changes in the economic and social One in South Korea: ULSAN; environment. One in India: VIZAG. The group has approximately 6,000 employees working in its The Group’s commitment to non-financial performance has the full various subsidiaries around the world. Our growth policy has support of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive always sought to be respectful of people and the environment. Committee, including American senior management, thus ensuring that employment, environmental and social matters are managed Our group aims to be a key player in the water treatment sector consistently by all stakeholders. Internally, policies relating to and in all related applications. The many initiatives we have environmental, social and ethical matters are approved by the undertaken in recent years to promote Sustainable Development, members of the Executive Committee, who are responsible for particularly in the environmental, social and economic fields their dissemination and oversee their application across the Group (energy balance sheet, carbon balance sheet, sustainable as a whole. development report, social balance sheet, etc.) are closely related to our business activities. 2018 turnover by legal entity (M€) Our policy on Sustainable Development and corporate social responsibility is based on our pledge to deliver on our key commitments: To rank among the highest-performing companies in terms of safety. To operate in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as all other applicable requirements at the social and economic levels. To minimise the environmental impacts of our activities, including by optimising our energy consumption (gas, electricity and water). 1/ OUR LABOUR POLICY 1.0. POLICY Together, the women and men who make up our Group, armed This policy is based on individual development initiatives and on with their unique expertise, roles and personalities and measures focused on collective working conditions. representing a broad range of nationalities, form a close-knit team and community. The emphasis on individual development includes recruitment, training and career pathways. The aim is to improve the skills and The group’s social policy is built around two key concerns: competencies of each employee. To achieve this aim, our career • The individual development of its employees; management policy provides a basis for developing career • Social development through measures aimed at improving pathways that help to improve the expertise of both employees collective working conditions. and the Group as a whole. The group’s training policy further supports these measures by providing the new theoretical knowledge needed to ensure the development of all sectors of The Group’s success is inseparable from its 6,000 employees spread activity. across approximately 80 countries, all of whom contribute to our development and performance and to making the group the world Measures focused on collective working conditions form part of leader in its field. our continuous improvement approach and include all initiatives aimed at improving the working environment and at promoting The SNF group’s human resources policy aims to encourage staff prevention to ensure the health and safety of employees. They development by providing employees with the opportunity to grow are also designed to foster a healthy working environment to as part of an innovative global group and to attract and retain the prevent disputes through the promotion of effective internal best talents. This goal requires maintaining a social environment social dialogue and good labour relations and by striving to ensure that offers good working conditions and fair treatment in all that the Group’s employees represent a wider range of ethnic circumstances. origins, profiles and educational backgrounds. The Group also seeks to ensure that it complies with the constitutional texts, treaties, conventions, laws and regulations in force in the countries and territories where it operates. 1.1. LABOUR AND WORK ORGANISATION Through its human resources policy, the Group aims to offer its To this end, the Group arranges site visits in collaboration with employees diverse career prospects and opportunities, including universities, targeted engineering schools and technical by encouraging transfers between subsidiaries and sectors of educational institutions, providing numerous internship and activity and by developing their skills. apprenticeship opportunities. The table below provides the following data for the last three In all countries, the Group ensures its working hours comply with years: total workforce and distribution of employees by the relevant local and professional requirements. Staff are geographical area, gender and age, qualification, recruitment employed on a full-time basis and, to a lesser extent, on a parttrends and the number of hours worked annually and per time basis, the latter mainly at the specific request of employees. employee. In the event of surges of activity or specific difficulties, the Group The data only include the group’s major companies. The workforce may at times resort to fixed-term contracts, overtime, of each company includes all individuals working under a contract subcontractors and temporary workers in accordance with of employment but excludes interns and temporary staff. applicable local laws. The recruitment policy aims to equip the group with the best skills to support its development. As part of its commitment to continuously improve its recruitment channels, the Group maintains close ties with the best training providers across all its sectors of activity. WORKFORCE 2016 2017 2018 BY COUNTRY SNF France 1118 1201 1281 SNF China 752 781 799 SNF Korea 145 150 147 SNF India 132 139 143 SNF USA 1469 1775 1936 WORKFORCE 2016 2017 2018 BY GENDER Women Men Women Men Women Men SNF France 107 1011 116 1085 133 1148 SNF China 240 512 254 527 277 522 SNF Korea 11 134 12 138 12 135 SNF India 2 130 2 137 2 141 SNF USA 234 1235 284 1491 343 1593 WORKFORCE 2016 2017 2018 BY Management Staff Management Staff Management Staff SOCIOECONOMIC CATEGORY SNF France 478 640 533 668 560 721 SNF China 157 595 160 621 155 644 SNF Korea 36 109 40 110 39 108 SNF India 27 105 39 100 31 112 SNF USA 489 980 567 1208 606 1330 RECRUITMENT 2016 2017 2018 BY COUNTRY SNF France 41 83 80 SNF China 53 29 18 SNF Korea 9 5 -3 SNF India -4 7 4 SNF USA -39 306 161 NB : The figures in the tables are for our 5 main production sites (97% of the total production). 1.2. INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS The group is committed to respecting the fundamental constituent entities in accordance with local cultural and legal freedoms of its employees, including the right to freedom of practices. The group seeks to engage directly with employees, association and expression, to protecting the confidentiality of whether directly or via internal surveys or through staff its employees’ personal data and to respecting their privacy as representatives. Collective bargaining takes place in accordance set out in its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. with specific national practices governing staff representation and the applicable legal framework. The Group is committed to Among the fundamental principles and rights at work, freedom a bargaining policy designed to improve the social status of its of association and collective bargaining are drivers of social employees in keeping with the Group’s growth and progress in industrial relations which the Group seeks to development and broader macroeconomic context. promote and implement wherever it is established. For The main areas of collective bargaining relate to total example, beyond mere compliance with the legal and regulatory compensation (wages, life insurance, healthcare expenses, requirements in force in the countries where it operates, the employee savings and other employee benefits), the Group encourages the appointment of staff representatives management of jobs and skills, quality of life at work, and health with the aim of putting in place an appropriate collective and safety at work. bargaining framework. In countries where no provision is made for staff representatives by national legislation, appropriate Percentage of Group employees within representative bodies may be created at a local level. subsidiaries benefiting from staff representation and/or trade union representation: As part of its industrial relations policy, the Group engages in continuous dialogue with staff representatives across all its • France: 100% • United States: 35.5% • China: 98% • Korea: 53% • India: 0% 1.3. HEALTH AND SAFETY In carrying out its operations, the Group puts safety and to raise awareness of and develop the Group’s safety culture and protection of health and the environment at the heart of its safety initiatives and programmes. For example, the system used priorities. For example, the group has committed to the to monitor the Group’s safety performance incorporates the rate “RESPONSIBLE CARE” initiative, a voluntary scheme undertaken of workplace accidents among Group employees and external by the chemical industry to ensure activities and products are staff. managed responsibly based on a continuous improvement approach. In addition, the Group views the prevention of strain in the workplace as a top priority and has had a dedicated programme The SNF group places the health and safety of its personnel at incorporating workstation ergonomics in place for a number of the heart of its values and is committed to the belief that all years. Wellbeing and quality of life at work are also a key part of occupational accidents are preventable. As part of its prevention the protection of employee health. and continuous improvement approach, the Group is committed to ensuring good working conditions for all, including through health and safety risk assessments of workstations and analyses Safety of persons of the typology of accidents. The behavioural approach is a major focus of risk management and prevention. The development of a safety culture aimed at The Group applies the same high standards to ensure the safety raising awareness of individual responsibility and of the of personnel from external organisations working at its industrial importance of individual behaviour lies at the heart of the sites as it does to the safety of its own employees. For example, group’s vision. The Group uses a range of tools to develop a all individuals are systematically included in initiatives designed safety culture shared by all. 1.4. TRAINING SNF is committed to creating working conditions that promote the expectations and other sectors of activity within the Group that personal and professional development of its staff and to provide may be suitable for development. them with the tools needed to achieve this goal and improve their performance. Globally, the Group carries out annual one-to-one Professional training applies to every employee regardless of their interviews, which serve as an opportunity to set targets for the sector of activity, level of responsibility or age. Training is an year ahead and to reflect on the employee’s development goals opportunity for staff to acquire or develop the skills they need to with line managers. do their work, effectively transition into a new role and meet the company’s expectations, whether in terms of technical expertise Discussions between staff and managers are also designed to serve or managerial practices. As such, all employees have access to as an opportunity to review prior training and, based on the training throughout their career. findings of the review, to identify suitable training for the year ahead with a view to enhancing employees’ skills and knowledge. Specific professional training programmes are designed for This applies to all categories of staff. Interviews with career employees with the aim of developing staff skills in health, safety, counsellors are an opportunity to review employees’ career path, the environment, Group sectors of activity and management. 1.5. CAREER MANAGEMENT Career management is the core focus of the Group’s approach to The career management policy applied within the Group is tailored human resource development. Its aim is to broaden the to each of the entities that make up the group based on specific experiences of staff within their wider career paths, thus ensuring standards and needs. that their skills are developed and updated on a regular basis, a vital ingredient of the group’s growth and development. These principles are as follows: • Empowering each employee to manage their own career and As such, career management has a dual purpose: providing them with the support they need at every stage • To ensure that the company has the expertise it needs to • Conducting a proactive internal promotion policy achieve its development goals both today and in the medium • Identifying and developing potential to promote increased term; responsibility and career development • To support employees in building their careers with the aim of • Promoting labour mobility enabling them to increase their skills and carry out their • Enabling all employees to advance their career and broaden projects based on the opportunities and possibilities available their experience and skills. to them within the Group. 1.6. LISTENING AND DIALOGUE The group strives to develop a culture of listening and dialogue The Group applies a bargaining policy aimed at improving the with its employees, whether directly through internal surveys or social status of employees in line with the group’s development via staff representatives. and the broader macroeconomic environment. In addition, as part of the contractual policy, a significant number The main areas of collective bargaining addressed in 2018 of collective agreements have been reached, especially in related to total compensation (wages, life insurance, healthcare France. Outside France, collective bargaining takes place in expenses, employee savings and other employee benefits), the accordance with specific national practices relating to staff management of jobs and skills, quality of life at work, health and representation and with the legal framework. safety at work, workplace equality and diversity, and social dialogue. 1.7. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES, EQUAL TREATMENT As part of its policy of non-discrimination and the promotion of In France, an agreement on workplace gender equality and equality and diversity in the workplace, the Group always seeks diversity was reached on 7 December 2017 for 2018, with a to combat all forms of discrimination, encourages diversity, revision in 2019. The agreement relates mainly to recruitment which it sees as an asset for its global business, and recruits staff and integration, pay and promotion, access to training and worksolely on the basis of its needs and their quality as set out in its life balance. The Group continues to bolster its policy with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. aim of driving the recruitment and promotion of women. Along with the prevention of discrimination in general, In the United States, the Group seeks to provide the same career workplace equality is a key focus of the Group’s human resources opportunities to its staff based on merit, qualifications and skills. policy. In particular, the Group strives to achieve workplace This policy applies both to recruitment and postings and to any gender equality, to promote the integration of employees with other events affecting the contract of employment. disabilities and to adhere to the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of age or nationality. In China, the group ensures non-discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, gender, age or nationality. In the event of To achieve this goal, the Group uses job descriptions to maintain discrimination or harassment, human resources have put in equality and sector-specific consistency, together with a place measures for employees to whistle blow and to ensure any recruitment policy based on the sole criterion of the suitability of complaints are dealt with immediately. In Jiangsu Province, the skills profile for the role. specific regulations are in place to protect women in the workplace. Diversity is very important to the group for ensuring team performance and attracting talent. To improve its image, the In Korea, in accordance with the laws applicable to companies, group is committed to delivering on two objectives in this area, the group prohibits any discrimination between employees the aim being to increase the proportion of women and nonregardless of their status or disability. Training sessions are also French employees at management and director level. held on a regular basis, with the focus on preventing the risk of harassment in the workplace. Therefore, the Group is committed to developing local skills and expertise to promote local employment at all levels right up to In India, the Group strives to comply strictly with the antisenior management level. discrimination laws in force and has put in place a policy of nondiscrimination enshrined in its administration manual with the The group seeks to ensure that women have the same career aim of providing employees with the same career opportunities development opportunities as their male counterparts and to based on merit, qualifications and skills. maintain a policy of workplace equality and equal pay. To this end, the Group has set itself the following objectives: • To promote the principle of non-discrimination in access to employment • To apply the principle of equal pay • To promote and facilitate career development • To help women advance into senior executive roles. 2/ OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 2.1. GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Group’s products help to preserve natural resources. Similarly, The Group always strives to reduce its environmental footprint at our manufacturing procedures are designed to minimise the all its industrial sites. For example, our unit water, gas and environmental impact of our activities. Our main monomer is electricity consumption decreases regularly relative to the produced enzymatically at ambient temperature and under volumes produced. By rigorously monitoring their emissions, the atmospheric pressure. Given the volumes at stake, the biocatalysis Group’s industrial sites are able to develop tailored measures. process means our Group ranks among the pioneers of soft chemistry. Most of our industrial sites are ISO 14001 certified. 2.2. POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT The Group has an active policy aimed at controlling and reducing the impact of its activities on emissions to air and water and waste Reducing emissions at the Group’s industrial sites involves production. optimising their consumption of raw materials, energy and natural resources, thereby reducing emissions and waste production. This As part of this policy, discharges of substances are identified and also involves making improvements to production units and quantified by type of discharge, the aim being to put in place changes to procedures through new expertise and patents. appropriate measures to manage them in accordance with applicable regulations in the countries where the Group operates. 2.2.1. EMISSIONS TO AIR The Group seeks to minimise its emissions of the most polluting To reduce its impact on global warming, the Group has introduced a compounds, namely greenhouse gases (GHG), volatile organic range of measures, including the implementation of an emissions compounds (VOCs) and substances that cause air acidification treatment system at most of its plants, the implementation of a (nitrogen oxide and sulphur dioxide) and generate dust. systematic research programme on refrigeration units and the replacement of boilers with more efficient machinery. For each of the 2018, 2017 and 2016 financial years, quantified direct emissions of GHGs are shown in the graph below. Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Various measures aimed at reducing VOC emissions are in place at The Group also reduces its emissions of substances contributing to the Group’s plants, including: air acidification by: • The collection and treatment of effluents containing VOCs, • Using fuels with low or very low sulphur or natural gas in boilers with the most widely used technique being the use of a thermal instead of fuel oil. oxidiser and cleaning vents. • Using new burner technologies with low nitrogen oxide • Regular efforts to detect leaks and eliminate identified content. emissions. 2.2.2. EMISSIONS TO WATER Reducing emissions to water are an integral part of the Group’s Water) BREF (Best Available Techniques Reference document) in environmental objectives, which include targeting effluents with Europe and strives to implement effluent pretreatment measures high chemical oxygen demand (COD) and emissions of suspended to reduce the amount of COD sent to wastewater treatment solids (SS). stations. The Group is constantly striving to optimise its use of water and the efficiency of water treatment processes from initial design to the The Group limits its use of chemical treatment in cooling towers daily operation of facilities using cutting-edge technologies and the by opting for treatments using ultraviolet and oxygenated water development of innovative solutions. at most of its industrial sites. It also seeks to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to respond to planned changes, such as the CWW (Common Waste 2.2.3. WASTE, RECYCLING AND REUSE Waste is generated by the industrial activities carried out by the • To recycle its waste in specific product lines, in accordance with Group, which seeks to manage waste at every stage of its activities the REACH regulation; and, wherever possible, to identify channels for reuse and • As far as possible to turn waste into energy, for example as an recycling. alternative fuel in boilers instead of conventional fuels; • To recycle solvents and to optimise cleaning cycles; The group strives: • To install filters with the aim of reducing sludge. • To reduce its waste at source by designing products and processes that create as little waste as possible; 2.2.4. NOISE AND OTHER POLLUTION Consideration by the Group of the pollution associated with its As part of our measures designed to reduce visual pollution activities and its impact on residents living near its industrial sites (smoke), we have replaced fuel oil with gas boilers at all our sites. is a key priority of the Group’s environmental policy. The Group has also put in place real-time communication with its Changes aimed at reducing pollution are introduced every year, stakeholders in relation to all events generating a noise, visual or including by making improvements to filters. olfactory impact on the areas close to its industrial sites. In addition, most of the sites now have a system in place to receive As part of the measures designed to reduce noise, improvements complaints from residents to ensure their concerns are taken into are constantly being made to noise protection systems, including account as far as possible and to reduce pollution. Once in towers with low noise emissions, with further measures complaints have been assessed, action plans are implemented in including the installation of silencers on air compressors and liaison with local authorities. refrigeration units. 2.2.5. SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE USE Reducing the environmental impact of the Group’s industrial sites consumption of water, energy resources and raw materials at its involves optimising the use of raw materials, energy and natural industrial sites. resources such as water. New production plants factor the environmental footprint into their choice of processes and Mining is one of the group’s major activities. Its mineral extraction equipment from the design stage onward. sites are situated in isolated areas, at altitude or in desert areas with low water levels. The Group’s products help to reduce the Similarly, the Group pays great attention to the operating water needs of the mining industry and to optimise the extraction conditions of its manufacturing processes and invests broadly in process and limit its environmental impact. development and maintenance with the aim of reducing the 2.2.5.1. CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS SNF strives to contribute to the optimal consumption of nonFor example, the Group recycles non-compliant products in other renewable raw materials in its production processes. production processes to ensure waste can be turned into the raw material of another production process. 2.2.5.2. WATER CONSUMPTION The Group uses water as part of its industrial activities, including in monitoring consumption, installing flow meters, using leak its production processes in a reaction medium, the cooling of detection, upgrading fire safety systems, harvesting rainwater and production facilities, product and equipment cleaning processes recycling the water used in cleaning processes or from boiler and steam production. condensate. To produce one tonne of finished products, water needs are currently 20% lower than they were ten years ago. For example, Over 80% of the water used is discharged into the natural the tank washing process has been optimised by increased water environment and most of the Group’s industrial sites are not recycling and by developing new cleaning technologies (use of located in areas of water scarcity, but are often situated near washer nozzles requiring 75% less water for this application). rivers. The group is seeking to make its own contribution to optimising the consumption of freshwater provided by the network by 2.2.5.3. ENERGY CONSUMPTION The Group uses different energy sources, primarily as part of its regulations and other requirements applicable to energy industrial activities. Gas accounts for 75% of the Group’s total efficiency. energy consumption, predominantly at sites that produce powders, with electricity accounting for the remaining 25%. For example, the group has begun replacing conventional lights with LED lights. The priorities set for energy consumption include an ongoing commitment to optimising consumption and energy costs from the Beyond the energy-related dimensions of the programme, the design phase through to purchases of less energy-intensive Group also aims to increase the competitiveness of its industrial equipment, energy management and compliance with laws, sites through these savings. 2.2.5.4. PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF BIODIVERSITY Efforts to protect biodiversity focus on protecting flora, fauna and For example, the expansion of the Andrézieux-Bouthéon industrial all plant and animal species impacted by emissions associated with site led to significant mitigation measures, including a fifty-year the Group’s activities. emphyteutic lease over an area of approximately one hundred hectares managed by the Conservatory of Natural Areas of Rhône The measures implemented as part of these efforts focus in Alpes (CNRA) to ensure the protection of flora and fauna at a cost particular on reducing emissions to air and water and the disposal of EUR 1,200,000 borne by the Group. of waste into the subsoil at each site. For example, the Group conducts periodic assessments of sites to In addition, the group acquired eighty hectares of woodland which identify their impacts on the environment and on all animal and it sold for a symbolic franc to the commune of Andrézieuxplant species. In addition, from the design stage onward, new Bouthéon in return for an amendment to the local development production plants incorporate the environmental footprint into plan to allow the site to be expanded by twenty hectares. In doing their choice of processes and equipment, including through so, the group is helping to protect the ecosystem of plants and increasing capacities by reducing the energy used in production. animals near the plant. Despite using a limited amount of land, the Group has introduced a range of initiatives designed to contribute in its own way to the development of biodiversity at sites with areas of land not used for industrial activities. These initiatives help to promote revegetation and the development of local species at its industrial sites. 3/ OUR SOCIAL POLICY 3.1. SOCIAL COMMITMENTS IN FAVOUR OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Reducing the environmental footprint of the Group’s activities is a flocculation used to separate solids and liquids, viscosification and major undertaking. To achieve this goal, the Group ensures its the reduction of friction resulting in energy savings. industrial practices evolve and develop with a view to limiting its emissions and optimising its consumption. The Group relies on a Our products are used in all areas that involve water, i.e. the Sustainable Development department incorporating the Product production of drinking water, wastewater treatment, sludge Safety and Environment department and Sustainable dewatering, oil and gas extraction, mining, agriculture, and paper, Development. This department reports directly to the Executive textile and cosmetics manufacturing. The Group uses chemistry in Committee. the service of nature since its products play a vital role in preserving our environment and in ensuring access to energy. In Both world population growth and global living standards lead to doing so, they contribute to achieving our ambition to improve the increased consumption and, in turn, to increasing scarcity of the daily lives of all people throughout the world. world’s raw materials, including water. Through its research and development units and the many patents The Group’s core activity is water treatment. Population growth, it has filed, the Group is constantly improving its performance with increasing urbanisation and large-scale irrigation impact heavily on the aim of producing more and consuming less. For example, in demand for water and access to drinking water. Access to good2018 the group filed around a hundred patents. Around forty quality water across the globe represents a major challenge for the patents in preparation are underway, with several at the drafting twenty-first century. As the global leader in the production and use stage. The bulk of our research and development is carried out in of water-soluble polymers, the Group has developed a range that France at the Andrézieux site. includes over a thousand products, all of which contribute to preserving our natural resources, encouraging recycling and improving the productivity of industrial processes. The polymers produced by the Group have several additional features, including 3.2. PROCUREMENT, SUPPLIERS AND OUTSOURCING The Group strives to incorporate labour, environmental and social The group’s responsible procurement process is guided by the matters into its procurement policy with the aim of building ethical principles of its Code of Conduct. lasting, balanced, sustainable and trusting relationships with its suppliers and subcontractors. We ensure relationships develop on The Group resorts to outsourcing for certain finished products the basis of agreed contractual terms and conditions that are clear, produced on behalf of the Group but also, and above all, for adhered to and negotiated in good faith, including with regard to maintenance operations governed by specific contracts. As part of intellectual property. the Group’s procurement policy, subcontractors are subject to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and to the General Conditions of Purchase. 3.3. COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS The Group has a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Group authority, business intermediaries, customer employees and complies with all applicable international agreements and laws, political parties. including the “Sapin 2” law in France. The Code of Conduct includes the following key points: • Employees are required to comply with regulations on the import and export of goods and services. • Employees may not offer, provide or accept, directly or indirectly, any unfair advantage, be it pecuniary or otherwise, • Employees must scrupulously comply with all applicable rules whose purpose is to secure business relations or any other of competition law in every country where the group operates. business advantage, including with people in positions of public SNF has appointed a group compliance officer, who is on hand to answer any questions from employees. The Group recognises the importance of protecting human rights both in conducting its activities and in its relations with third parties. It is committed to adhering to international standards and key frameworks, specifically: • The International Bill of Human Rights and the principles of the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; • The “Responsible Care” initiative; • The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The graphs presented in this report were produced using data collated at the SNF group’s main production sites (97% of total production). The values of the different graphs were rounded off to one tonne of products produced by all the sites in question. 2015 was used as the reference year and 100 was used as the base value to monitor trends and changes in those values from that year onwards.
