Communication On Progress UN Global Compact Report 2018 20 19 TABLE OF CONTENT About Banque du Caire 04 Quick Highlights 5 Letter from the Chairman 07 Commitment to Excellence 10 Commitment to the Global Compact Principles 11 Human Rights 14 Labour 24 Environment 27 Anti-Corruption 31 Contact Us 34 About Banque du Caire 03 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 About Banque du Caire Today Banque du Caire is executives with a breadth of considered one of the oldest and experience from both the financial largest banks in Egypt with circa and non-financial sector. EGP 179bn of assets and a market A new strategy was adopted and share of 4%, serving more than 3 accordingly has been rolled out to million clients. redefine Banque du Caire as a market leader providing world class An extensive and well diversified banking service at the global best local network of 228 Branches and practice standard. offices covering 27 governorates, This transformation is being giving Banque du Caire a actualized by setting up specialized geographical advantage over other departments and experienced banks operating in Egypt. teams as well as restructuring existing ones to work efficiently Banque du Caire is a significant with clients. This includes and is contributor in growing the national not limited to Corporate Banking, economy through its role in Global Transaction Banking, financing the full spectrum of Structured Finance, Treasury, projects, from MicroFinance Securities Services, SMEs & Wealth initiatives to mega infrastructure Management. development projects. These business units are supported In January 2018, Mr. Tarek Fayed by dedicated service teams to was appointed as Chairman and ensure the quality of services CEO of Banque du Caire, alongside provided to clients is effective and a new Board of Directors fully covers clients needs. comprised of top notch senior 04 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Quick Highlights Delta Region Alexandria & Behira Region 45 Branches & Units 32 Branches & Units Cairo Region 77 Branches & Units Canal & Sinai 12 Branches & Units Egypt Red Sea & Upper Egypt Region 55 Branches & Units About Banque du Caire 05 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Tarek Fayed Banque du Caire Chairman & CEO 06 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Letter From The Chairman With a decades-long history in the Egyptian banking industry, Banque du Caire has consistently been at the forefront of change, I have the pleasure to present the third Communication on Progress (PoC) report. It covers the key measurements taken to adhering to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact across its four main principles; Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. To maintain our significance in the market as Egypt’s most respected banks for almost 70 years; operating towards an enlightened vision and strategy that support the national economy and the community, we have developed a talent for reinvention, specifically in the field of sustainable development. Through which, we were able to implement our on-going strategy and embarked on a holistic transformation focused on restructuring our internal operations and enhancing our use of technology. The effectiveness of our strategy has been yielding results, with strong numbers achieved across all our business lines. Additionally, succeeded in contributing to the evolvement of financing developing endeavors that contribute to the country’s sustainable growth. In-line with our national projecting role to not only support but also contribute to the Egyptian economy, Banque du Caire implements its strategy to act in compliance with the latest and most professional standards of the banking industry, both locally and internationally. The mentioned role realms our structure to support the ambitious economic reform program adopted by the Egyptian State to achieve the 2030 sustainable development agenda. Thus, we believe that the finest way to achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals of 2030 is to link all sustainable initiatives to our business models, while addressing social paradigms. In parallel, the main purposes of implementing this strategy is to provide the best and most convenient financial services not only to satisfy the different segments of the bank’s clientele, but also to consistently create lasting impact across many pillars. We believe that we are held accountable of our employees, About Banque du Caire 07 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 shareholders, community and the ecology, in Because the bank’s main and most important addition to the interests of the social and assets are its employees and are a environmental consequences of business representation of its success story, we focus on activities. By integrating sustainable initiatives consistently organizing trainings and seminars to into our core business processes and align it with update the staff with the most recent local and stakeholders, Banque du Caire achieves the global certifications to meet the highest ultimate goal of creating both corporate and international standards and ensure an adequate social value. In 2019, our main pillars were fixated working environment that further supports the on healthcare, decent life and infrastructure, bank’s governance and achievements. environment and education, financial literacy, youth employment, women empowerment, all Conclusively, our alteration strategy has already under the social and economic impact to ensure changed the way Banque du Caire operates for sustainable development. the better and enhanced our ability to integrate and strengthen the ten principles of the United Banque du Caire supports developing projects Nations Global Compact in the areas of human that improve lives in all of Egypt’s governorates rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. through job creations. Maintaining the bank’s The sustenance and exceptional devotion of leading position in financing small and medium every one of our employees has been enterprises that the country is bidding on to contributory in implementing the mentioned stimulate growth rates by financing training principles towards sustainability, and I would like programs, encouraging microfinance to extend my sincere gratitude to the members development by providing technical, of our team, executive management, and our administrative and financial assistance through esteemed Board of Directors for helping us reach grants and loans. where we are today. Banque du Caire’s swift and hassle-free approval process coupled with its comprehensive track record position the bank’s microfinance program as the go-to funding provider for micro entrepreneurs all around the country as it works to bolster the government’s push for financial inclusion. The implemented strategy of the bank applied the principles of financial inclusion to reach-out to different segments, providing advanced and innovative services to meet societal needs in the most cost-effective Tarek Fayed manners. Chairman & CEO of Banque du Caire 08 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 About Banque du Caire 09 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Banque du Caire’s commitment to Excellence A. Health and Safety E. Business partners: • At Banque du Caire, we aim to provide a safe • Banque du Caire does not discriminate in any and healthy working environment in both our opportunity based on race, color, gender, gender operations and premises. identity, gender expression, genetic information, age, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, marital status or disability when dealing with any of our B. Labor: F. Environment: • Banque du Caire maintains fair labor values, • At Banque du Caire, one of the pillars of the CSR including working hours, conditions, wages that strategy is the environment. We work both comply with the Egyptian Labor law. We internally and externally for an environmentally condemn the use of forced labor and abusive sustainable and paperless bank. We are fully child labor as defined by the Egyptian Labor law committed to the most effecient use of natural and Rights at Work. We respect our employees’ ressources. right to freedom of association. C. Community: G. Privacy and Security: • Banque du Caire supports a vast array of • Banque du Caire respects individual privacy. We stakeholders and aims to create value and strive to secure any business information we maximize its impact in terms of not only business collect, use and disclose. success but also participating in the enhancement of the local communities and Country. D. Customers: H. Compliance: • Banque du Caire implements standards of • Banque du Caire observes and strives and conduct and respect for human rights for our implements human rights policies that are employees, suppliers, contractors and partners. consistent with local laws and regulations. 10 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 About Banque du Caire 11 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Banque du Caire has been playing a substantial Such measures are reflected through every role in serving its people across Egypt in individual’s support to the UNGC ten principles, conducting its day-to-day business in accordance while upholding their daily responsibilities to with a code of conduct that prioritizes corporate benefit societal needs and contribute towards social responsibilities and sustainable making communities more and more sustainable. development. Part of the new management’s The below provides a well-defined brief of the five-year long-term strategic mindset is for all ways in which Banque du Caire conducts its departments to be in-line with environmental, business by means of the 10 UNGC principles. social and governance measures. Human Rights Principle 1: • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: • Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: • The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: • The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: • The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 12 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Environment Principle 7: • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. About Banque du Caire 13 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 14 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Human Rights Principle 1: • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: • Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. There is no doubt that Banque du Caire's employees play an integral role in the development of the Bank. The bank takes all the necessary measures to protect employee rights and freedom whilst ensuring employees' safety, health and welfare. The ongoing CSR initiatives extends its support to human rights towards the society through continuous social responsibility initiatives aiming at providing a better life to the people of Egypt. A. Our Employees a. Hours, Wages & Leave: • BdC provides monthly wages developed transportation infrequent and remunerated. for employees with an annual allowances, staff loans and profit share and salary increase credit cards, in addition • BdC complies with the as an incentive and appreciation todeveloping competitive Egyptian Labour Law to ensure for their hard work throughout compensation and benefits for that all employees are paid the year. employees in return for their holiday leave, sick leave, and contribution to the bank. maternity leave for females. • The bank has developed fringe benefit programs • Working hours are set as per • The bank ensures that all introducing different types of the Egyptian Labour Law where employees have an official allowances to suit BdC the workweek is limited to 40 employment status. employees’ needs, e.g. hours and overtime is b. Fair Treatment: • BdC condemns all types of grievances & complaints which • BdC respects the privacy of its workplace harassment (e.g. investigates each case and employees whenever it gathers physical, verbal, sexual, and takes the necessary actions private information or monitors psychological). The bank has an accordingly as per the bank’s the workplace. HR committee designated for regulations. receiving all types of employees’ About Banque du Caire 15 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 c. Employees Wellbeing • Banque du Caire provides throughout the bank's branches procedures in order to provide healthy working and units. Frequent email the best possible services for environment for staff wellbeing circulars regarding the BdC employees and their and productivity; all buildings non-smoking regulations have families; expanded the medical are daily monitored in terms of been sent to the staff backed by network across the whole suitable temperature and air monitoring measures taking country. conditioning, ventilation, place to ensure the electricity & lighting, sanitary non-smoking regulations are • The bank has introduced new facilities, cleanliness with access enacted. Hepatitis C treatment to clean food and drinking (Qurevo) in addition to the new water. All devices and •Employees are provided with protocol (Sovaldi equipment are regularly free & discounted medical Daklinza) provided to nearly monitored by maintenance services with access to a wide 1000 employees during 2017 & companies to ensure they are variety of hospitals, clinics in 2018 it was provided to 282 safe and working efficiently. and medicines in various employees. medical specialties. • Smoking is prohibited inside The bank continuously works on • The bank has partnered with offices and corridors to provide developing the medical services 20 new medical centers healthy working environment provided to the staff by providing assistive devices for with certain designated places updating the medical network the employees with disabilities. for smoking; smoke detectors on an ongoing basis and are set up in all offices working on the simplification of d. Employees Safety Banque du Caire takes all the necessary measures and arrangements to provide a safe environment for its employees, customers and visitors all over its branches and buildings spread nationwide in order to prevent any accidents or emergencies from happening and to be able to respond to them if they occurred. • Protective Equipment security systems, cameras, etc. been conducted as per a current arereadily available in all the in 2019, all branches have been time plan that targets updating bank's 228 branches and units totally revamped. all BdC branches with new spread nationwide; fire alarm advanced protective equipment. systems, first aid kits, fire • Technological developments extinguishers and hoses, of the protective equipment • Regular monitoring by the anti-theft and security systems, have been implemented in the Security team is held cameras, etc. Protective bank’s branches in Cairo, throughout all the bank’s Equipment are readily available Alexandria, Marsa Matrouh and branches to ensure the security in all the bank's 228 branches Siwa whereby the protective equipment are made available and units; fire alarm systems, equipment have been replaced and working efficiently while first aid kits, fire extinguishers with new advanced ones with fixing any problems that are and hoses, anti-theft and the latest technologies. This has detected. In addition, monitoring 16 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 rooms are working 24/7 to that is held in all branches. The the bank’s concerned detect any security related evacuation process and results departments to: incidents and act immediately. are monitored by the concerned departments evaluating any • Regularly monitors the • Regular security training, concerns that arouse during the workplace to ensure health and sessions and workshops are fire drill and finding solutions to safety arrangements are made provided to the security prevent them from happening in available in line with the personnel and guards; future. international standards. • Security Awareness In 2019, technical and practical campaigns were delivered to • Reports accidents, health and security training courses have the bank’s staff and customers safety problems that occur, been provided to security on a regular basis providing investigates and provides personnel from all the bank's security instructions and tips solutions, take branches in Cairo and via training, email circulars, actions to prevent any governorates. As for 2019, 593 flyers, ATM and branch screens. recurrences, and follows up on security personnel have been the execution of the plans. trained. • The bank deals with professional security agencies • Takes part in preparing the • The training involved where the security personnel of security training material assessments to measure what the agency are regularly provided for the staff members. people learned, monitor the monitored by the bank’s best performers, and conduct security department to ensure • BDC has promotion and open discussions with the they are working effectively & reward programs based on security management regarding efficiently without any performance. the security personnel violations related to human complaints or & problems they rights acts. If any problems face and fix them. occur from the agency personnel, immediate actions • Trial Evacuation Awareness are taken (e.g. terminating the campaign has been contract, paying penalties, or conducted targeting all staff exclusion of the personnel in members including the charge). security team regarding their roles and instructions to be • BDC Health and Safety considered to safely evacuate Committee includes members the bank’s buildings on from the bank’s management emergency. The trial fire and staff to improve health and evacuation is undertaken on an safety measures in the annual basis at the bank’s head workplace. The committee office building, in addition to a meets on a monthly-basis and bi-annual trial fire evacuation works and works closely with About Banque du Caire 17 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 e. Employees’ Performance & Motivation: Banque du Caire takes all the necessary measures and arrangements to provide a safe environment for its employees, customers and visitors all over its branches and buildings spread nationwide in order to prevent any accidents or emergencies from happening and to be able to respond. BECAUSE BDC’S MOST IMPORTWE PROVIDE THEM THE BEST ANT ASSETS ARE ITS EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF TRAININGS • Banque du Caire's Core Values total increase of 20%. 28 of the • Regular training sessions were aims to guide all staff members overseas training sessions have provided to managers in order through a positive and been offered such as the to efficiently apply a balanced successful conduct internally Harvard Program during 2019. scorecard system that has been and externally guided by the developed with latest global bank’s vision, culture and values. In 2019, Banque du Caire standards in employee managed to provide 24000 performance management. • BdC provides best in class training opportunities including training programs to overseas training. • BdC organized recognition enhance employees’ skills and event dedicated to the performance and meet the • A performance management retired employees from the bank’s strategic objectives; system has been developed overall bank’s departments and specialized technical training as applying the latest global branches in all governorates in well as interpersonal skills standards in employee order to honor them for their training courses are provided to performance measurement; a valued contribution to the bank help employees develop their balanced scorecard system has throughout their work years. personal experiences and been developed aligning improve their work productivity. individual goals, teamwork, and the objectives of the Almost 68% of the employees department / branch of each had training during 2019. The employee in order to end up training hours were 180,000 achieving BdC’s strategic versus150,357 in 2018, with a objectives. 18 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 B. Our community For the past decades , Banque du Caire has been effectively adopting a wide range of prominent Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives and contributions outside of core banking realm providing a dedicated approach and significant impacts towards sustainable community development in various fields such as: social development, health care, education, poverty, heritage and culture, vocational training and projects, supporting economy, infrastructure, youth, women and special needs. These initiatives support the Bank's fundamental role towards the development of the Egyptian society and economy. a. Developing Underprivileged Villages: Banque du Caire adopted full-fledged sustainable development to one of the poorest villages in Upper Egypt, Al Qora'an village in Sohag. The Bank managed to do infrastructure and housing renovations, education, health care & microfinance projects for the village residents in order to help provide them with adequate & sustainable living conditions. The project has been implemented in partnership with Khair Wa Baraka Foundation. 1. Infrastructure: • Banque du Caire provided the • A major pipe that is 2.6 Km poorest 89 houses in the village long has been installed for the with renovation, roofing, supply of clean drinking water electricity, lighting, and reaching the areas that lack bathrooms. access to clean water to serve more than 200 homes. 2. Education: The Bank supported the renovation and development of • Infrastructure: renovating the • Students & Teachers training: “Al Qoraan” primary school in school's building, providing training courses for the village which is under bad classrooms, laboratories and the students to boost their condition with poor playground (wall painting, Arabic language skills, in infrastructure and unqualified electricity & lighting, plumbing addition to providing teachers. The project aims at systems, bathrooms, windows, professional training courses for promoting a better learning doors, furnishing, etc). 73 teachers in 7 primary environment, renovating the schools, with regular visits to school infrastructure and • Equipment and tools: follow up, provide technical resources and providing providing the school's support and measure the technical and professional classrooms, library and outcomes. training programs to the laboratories with the necessary teachers and students. learning tools, devices and Renovation included: equipment. About Banque du Caire 19 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 3. Healthcare: The Bank provided support to the health units of the village to serve all the village’s residents through; • Medical equipment and tools: • Veterinary Convoy: providing The project is planned to providing 2 health units with the free medical continue on an annual-basis necessary medical equipment treatment for 650 animals in and expand targeting and devices used for treating the village which are considered sustainable development of the the diseases widely spread in a major source of income, food poorest areas in Egypt. the village. and fiber for their owners. • Technical support: providing Providing vocational training for regular technical support visits 140 beneficiaries in the village for 1 year for the unit's doctor. (males and females including • Medical Convoys: providing the women who are the bi-annual medical convoys breadwinners of their families) providing support for 1825 with the aim to help them utilize beneficiaries with free medical such training experience to start examination, medicines, along their own projects and to with operations and surgeries generate income for themselves provided for the cases in need. and their families. 4. Vocational Training: The Bank provided support to the health units of the village to serve all the village’s residents through; A vocational training has been development of the poorest delivered for 140 beneficiaries areas in Egypt. in the village (males and females, especially the women Towards the end of 2019, in who are the breadwinners of collaboration with other banks their families) in addition to along with a reputable NGO, providing them with the BDC built high-schools in necessary tools and equipment underprivileged areas across needed to independently utilize Egypt. Eo ensure sustainability in their personal projects in in those newly-built premises, order to generate income for BDC assigned bank themselves and their families. representatives to closely The project is planned to monitor students’ abilities continue on an annual-basis through the quality of education with a main target of they receive. Additionally, we broadening sustainable provide trainings for the school 20 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 b. Charitable Convoys “Qawafel EL Khair“: For the 6th consecutive year, It is worth mentioning that both financial support to more than Banque du Caire’s Qawafel El bank's employees and the Top 2000 families. The Bank Khair” was successfully management are annually distributed 2000 Ramadan organized during the holy contributing and taking part in packs and supported 100 eye month of Ramadan and the cold the campaign's visits to the surgeries. This is in addition to winter season aiming at underprivileged villages. providing a proper roofing for 50 eradicating extreme hunger and houses and providing “water poverty across the different In 2018, the Banque du Caire’s connections” to 60 houses. Egyptian Governorates. Qawafel El Khair” extended its c. Charitable Fund “Al Asmarat Fund” Banque du Caire has participated in funding Al Asmarat national housing project which aims at rehousing of the slums dwellers residents to better and safer neighborhoods. d. Healthcare Initiatives Leveraging on Banque du Caire’s As part of Banque du Caire’s Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of continuous focus on supporting keenness to support the health the Arab Republic of Egypt, the underprivileged people, the sector in Egypt, our Bank has Banque du Caire has Bank was able to initiate several supported many medical participated as a bronze health care activities to support institutions such as Bahia sponsor of the Zayed Charity different hospitals across the Foundation for Early Detection Marathon, which was held in Egyptian Governorates. and Treatment of Breast Cancer the city of Ismailia for the Shefa by contributing to the purchase El Orman free Cancer. This is done through excessive of a Mammogram device. In donations to buy medical addition to this , BdC has In 2019, we donated to Baheya devices that are extensively supported Ahl Masr Foundation Foundation supporting Breast needed by the different to help build a and ICU Unit for Cancer and reached 1,000 hospitals. To make sure that children in the new hospital. beneficiaries. these funds are supporting the BdC has supported the Ministry people, the Bank conducts of Health in its initiative to Additionally, we donated to the follow up visits on regular basis eliminate waiting lists in public Cairo University Kasr El Einy and makes sure that the hospitals. Hospital, also supporting cancer doctors who use the equipment awareness. are well trained. . On December 28, 2018, under the patronage of President About Banque du Caire 21 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 e. Education Initiatives There is no doubt that Banque Nile University, Zewail University covering their full tuition fees till du Caire endorses the as well as Ganoub Al Wadi graduation. importance of Corporate Social University and Assuit University. Responsibility as an integral This support covers the tuition In 2018, Banque du Caire has part of its strategy. fees for students who can not supported a class of 30 pay the university fees. The students for one year in some The bank’s vision is focused on Bank also provided a community schools in Fayoum several components such as scholarship opportunity to 5 in partnership with Kolena maa education. The Bank supported students in the Nile University Baad (We are all together) NGO. f. Community Support Initiatives To ensure sustainability of all its children as part of its annual the Sakan and Dafa (House and projects, Banque du Caire acts commitment towards the NGO , Warm ) initiative to roof 150 as a stakeholder or a business as awell as Fatayat Masr for houses in Aswan Governorate in partner. The current CSR female orphans. addition to providing support to strategy is shaped accordingly 1000 families in Aswan (father, to the country's aim to ensure As part of its CSR activities, mother and two children) and effective community Banque du Caire has partnered providing them with 600 Winter development in underprivileged with Misr Al Khair Foundation necessities. areas in Egypt. Each year , the and the Egyptian Clothing Bank Bank supports different entities to provide safe housing and In 2019, we launched our and projects that support the accommodation for internal volunteering program community and encourages its underprivileged families in for the bank employees development. Upper Egypt to protect them providing volunteering Provided access to clean from the cold in winter. The opportunities. drinking water to 282 homes of initiatives aim to provide roofing the poor. as well as decent clotting for these families. In 2019, the Bank give support to El Walaa and El Wafaa NGO As part of its partnership with which hosts special needs Misr Al Kheir, our bank supports 22 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 h. BDC Employee Services Committee: We continue to promote employees’ social activities and offers various benefits to meet the purpose of providing financial support, activities and motivation to the bank’s staff, their families and the pensioners: •Pilgrimage and Umrah • Transportation Facilities. • The bank publishes obituaries in AlAhram newspaper for the •Summer Vacation Trips and • Grants for employees, support bank’s employees and their Short and Long in crises and emergency medical first-degree family members cases. who passed away. • Club Memberships. i. Economic Support Activities: Due to its leading role in capacity of the youth as well as differently abled people. The Microfinance and its CSR providing them with the tools project was able to support 8 of strategy, Banque du Caire has needed to start their own the handicapped in Upper Egypt partnered with Misr El Kheir career. NGO to train and provide work In 2019, we provided support opportunities to 210 youth in Also , the Bank was able to 50 athletic people with Sohag Governorate to reduce partner with Al Hassan disabilities, encouraging them to unemployment. This new Foundation to support Income pursue their passions. initiative aims to train and raise Generating projects for the About Banque du Caire 23 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 01 24 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Principle 3: • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: • The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: • The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: • The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Banque du Caire is governed by rules and regulations that are in line with the Egyptian labor laws. A. Freedom of association: Banque du Caire recognizes the rights of its staff to freedom of association and to bargain collectively. BdC Employees Association: it is engaging in putting solutions management decisions related comprised of BdC staff and benefits to be to: promotions, appraisals, members from different job provided for the staff. wages, hiring of employees, levels representing the interests contracts, profits, etc. In and needs of employees, It aims at continuously offering addition, it participates in discussing them in regular the best for BdC employees and organizing social and sports meetings with the top protecting their rights through activities for the staff. management and taking part in the top About Banque du Caire 25 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 B. Complaints, grievances and personnel system: it is handled through a bank and works under the complaints and grievances to committee of staff members supervision of the HR reach proper solutions to fix nominated from different management. The committee them and overcome any sectors and departments in the investigates and studies staff recurrences. C. Forced Labour The bank takes all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced labour with respect to recruitment, wages, leave, working hours, as it complies with the Egyptian labour law. D. Child Labour: BdC complies with minimum are prohibited from using child official letter for the first time, if age standards; no child labour. labour. In case a contractor uses the contractor does not respond Contractors working on the child labour within its workers, to the bank’s warning, the bank’s buildings construction the bank warns them in an contract is terminated. E.Non-Discrimination: The bank ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. According to the Egyptian Labour Law, employees with disabilities represent 5% of the bank’s staff. 26 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 01 About Banque du Caire About Banque du Caire 27 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Principle 7: • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Banque du Caire recognizes the importance of the surrounding environment and the urgency of keeping it safe. This is done meticulously by using the precautionary approach and the environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 9: • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. A. Devices and Equipment All devices and equipment are technology is an automated effectively conducted through assessed carefully before system that archives the specialized suppliers purchases to ensure that they documents and reduces the according to safety measures are economical and using print of paper work. Meanwhile, and regulations to protect the lowest emissions. we successfully got rid of the environment. hard disks in an eco-friendly In 2019, Banque du Caire way to protect the environment. While setting up all employees’ continued to implement its The bank remains to do computers and laptops, we dedicated strategy to powering business with specialized ensure that power saving mode the datacenter with the latest suppliers of ink cartridge is activated by automatically technology machines that printers to help recycling the turning off the display after 5 reduce energy consumption to empty cartridges. minutes, reducing energy align with our “going green” consumption. mission. Behind the use of the Execution and recycling of newest and most efficient expired ink cartridges is B. Paper Consumption Banque du Caire continuously solutions. The bank works to works on applying new decrease paper consumption technologies to automate the and waste within the daily daily work operations archive operations with the aim to documents as soft copies, , reduce the bank's paper waste minimize the tasks redundancy and contribute to the and provide eco-friendly environment. 28 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 C. BdC Buildings and Branches: Banque du Caire takes the necessary measures to ensure its branches are designed in line with national and international standards through the below: • LED Lighting: • In 2019, with the rebranding • LED lighting is used in BdC and free of harmful substances of old branches, we branches to save energy and that negatively affect the implemented the use of LED increase air conditioners’ environment like e.g. mercury lighting along with the efficiency as it decreases the which is used in other renovated floors of the heat emissions coming from fluorescent lighting bulbs. headquarters replacing lighting. ,It is also more durable traditional fluorescent lighting. compared to traditional lighting • Branches infrastructure The bank’s main building is • The bank has designed and • Eco-friendly plumbing equipped with double-glassed developed a complete systems are used in the bank‘s windows to absorb heat coming eco-friendly branch in Siwa buildings to save water and from outside the building where all the materials used are energy, provide clean water and preventing it from negatively environmently friendly and decrease chemical effects. affecting the central air inline with the international conditioning system inside. In standards. addition, the branches’ facades are designed with thermal • Technical studies to use solar control to save energy energy in the bank’s head office consumed by air building are underway aiming at conditioners and provide saving energy consumption and suitable temperature. costs. About Banque du Caire 29 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 • Air conditioning BdC ensures all new air conditioners in the bank’s buildings and branches are environment friendly as per the features below: • Energy Star certified; which • Air conditioners’ sound is • Use the inverter feature to means they meet the energy lower than 50 decibels in order reduce the energy efficiency regulations. to provide a healthy working consumed. environment that reduces • Use eco-friendly refrigerants, stress and increases employees • Equipped with ionizer the bank prefers R410A Freon, productivity. technology which is if available, which does not effective in removing dust and contribute to ozone depletion. bacteria from the air in order to provide a healthy workplace. • Gold Certificate LEED Our looking-forward plan to new headquarters building build the bank’s new premises located in the New Capital that to be under the internationally will operate on a fully recognized green building environmentally friendly basis, certification system, that in all aspects. The core and shell focuses on specific of the new premises will be performances (acoustic delivered within 24 months. performance, building life cycle With the understanding of the assessment, fundamental and used resources and vulnerability enhanced commissioning, to their impact on the construction and demolition environment, this aims to waste management planning, provide validation of improved donation towards natural performances across many protectorate and renewable environmental aspects such as; energy). energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions reduction, In December 2019, we started improved indoor environmental with the construction of our quality. 30 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 01 About Banque du Caire About Banque du Caire 31 BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 Principle 10: • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Banque Du Caire is committed well-developed compliance staff members. Clear evidence is to adapting its internal policies culture commitment among the present in the bank’s Code of and practices with the national staff. The bank ensures its Ethics, Whistle Blower Policy, and international standards of compliance with applicable laws, Corporate Governance Manual, ethical business practices. The legislations and regulations Anti-Bribery and Corruption bank has set well-developed including anti-corruption laws Policy and annual reports as anti-corruption principles and while maintaining a well as Anti-Money Laundering policies aiming at reinforcing a “Compliance Culture” among all Policy. A. Code of Ethics: Positive compliance culture is colleagues as well as contacts of corrupt behavior on the part the main goal whereby the with clients and competitors. of the employees is prohibited. employees act responsibly, They are not permitted to honestly and with integrity. The Code of Ethics sets out accept, pay or approve any BdC’s code of ethics illustrates clear how employees and senior types of bribes. values and minimum managers must behave in order requirements for ethical to comply with applicable laws business conduct. The Code and regulations. It goes without applies to dealings among saying that any and every type B. Whistle Blower Policy: BdC’s policies for the prevention independent channel for staff to identities and content of the of corruption represent one of report fraud, unethical acts or complaints. There will be no the bank’s key principles. The malpractice, as well as action taken against any measures taken to implement non-compliance with employee who, in good faith, such policies regulations. reports a concern. encompass reporting misconduct on an employee or • All complaints are handled in superior within the bank. The strict confidence to purpose is to have a direct and protect the whistleblowers' 32 About Banque du Caire BANQUE DU CAIRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 / 2019 C. Anti-Money Laundering Policy: It applies to all staff members identification, record keeping, ( FATF ) 40 recommendations. and sets out procedures for the compliance monitoring, staff They form together with the reporting of suspected money training, internal and external CBE Customer due diligence laundering activities with the reporting of suspicious or regulations, the MLCU aim to reduce potential criminal unusual transactions. Regulations and the industry activity. The policy defines guidance, the cornerstone of procedures that assist • The Central Bank Of Egypt’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) / compliance with legal legislation No.80/2002 and its Combating Financing obligations. amendments are designed to Terrorism (CFT) obligations for • AML Policy requires licensees prevent money our bank and outline the to establish adequate system laundering and reflect the offences and penalties for and procedures for customer Financial Action Task Force failing to comply. D. Corporate Governance: Effective corporate governance banking service to our the bank which guides the in accordance with international customers. The Information day-to-day activities. standards is a part of Banque security is always providing IS du Caire’s identity. It is awareness sessions to update BdC’s annual Governance apparently emphasized in the employees on the importance reports emphasize the Governance Manual & in the as well as the risk associated to imporance of the bank's responsible management and the security of BDC's sustainability policies and goals information security and its strong commitment to Banque Du Caire ensures its policies.control of the bank credibility. adherence with the CBE through sound, clear and supervising requirements and in transparent relationships The bank keeps developing harmony with the international between the management, training programs provided for IS standards that are in board of directors and the employees in the fields of: agreements with the bank shareholders and as well in the Compliance, Anti-money activity. The Bank's Information obviously-clear authorities and laundering and Corporate Security has executed various responsibilities of each of them. Governance. projects that aim at downsizing Governance maintains the security threats and breaches in stability and sustainability of order to provide a secured E. Anti-Bribery and Corruption As Banque Du Caire is keen to banks’ employees, its branches, with the Bank or Acting on its conduct all business with affiliated entities, as well as behalf. transparency, honesty and outsourcing companies are all integrity and to reduce the risks complying with anti-bribery and The policy is considered as part that may affect the bank, anti-corruption laws while of the Bank's, Corporate whether it is reputational risk or carrying out their duties. Policy Governance Guidelines, and risk related to possible fines. applies to all the Bank Bank's Code of Ethics. This Therefore, the Anti-Bribery and employees including Board policy was issued in accordance Corruption Policy has been members, senior management, with the Egyptian laws, Banking issued. managers, officials, employees, regulations and also Egyptian Policy aimed to combat bribery consultants, related parties or Standards for Combating and corruption in Banque Du other consultants, agents or Bribery ES8245. Caire ensuring that all the any other person associated About Banque du Caire 33 CONTACT US Head Office Address : 6 Dr. Mostafa Abo Zahra st., Nasr City, Cairo. Landline : +202 2264 6401 +202 2264 8401 PO Box : 9022 ZIP Code : 11371 Email : helnahas@bdc.com.eg salma.emad@bdc.com.eg Website : www.bdc.com.eg
