United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress. Financial year 2019/20 Overview. Tesco has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2015. In summary, we fulfil our commitments to We are committed to implementing and the UNGC by: promoting the UNGC ten principles in support • Contributing to UN SDGs; of human rights, labour rights, the • Implementing the 10 principles into our environment and anti-corruption. strategy and operations; • Supporting the Compact’s global As in previous years, this document platforms, including the Business summarises our contribution to the Ambitions for 1.5°C and Responsible sustainable development goals (SDGs) and Climate Policy Engagement; signposts to our existing approach to • Working to make our supply chain more corporate reporting, including our Little Helps sustainable; Plan, our Annual Report and corporate • Reporting transparently. website for our 2019/20 financial year. To demonstrate our alignment with the ten principles we have provided examples of our plans, progress and achievements. “I am pleased to confirm Tesco’s continued support of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the important work it does to create a better world and reaffirm our commitment in the important areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption in this Communication on Progress.” Dave Lewis, Group Chief Executive Our priority goals. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a blueprint to achieve a better future for all. They are a collection of 17 global goals set by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 and contain 169 sub targets to be achieved by 2030. They address the global challenges we face and cover social, environmental and economic development issues such as poverty, education, inequality, climate, water and food crises. The SDGs provide a focus for how businesses, governments and civil society can tackle these challenges in order to promote a more sustainable future for all. Tesco’s Little Helps Plan helps us to deliver Tesco contributes in different ways and to our purpose of serving shoppers a little different degrees to all the SDGs. In line with better every day. It’s a core part of our UN Global Compact guidance, we have business and focuses on responding to the identified which goals are particularly global challenges affecting Tesco; our relevant to us: where expectations, risks and suppliers, customers, colleagues and other opportunities for Tesco are greatest, and stakeholders. The SDGs have helped to where we can make the most significant inform our thinking about where we can play contribution. a role and make the biggest difference. Table 1: Priority Goals SDG and relevant Tesco Commitment Tesco Action Data performance target As a global food retailer, In 2018 Tesco and WWF-UK launched our 4-year partnership aiming to halve the environmental 59.4 million meals donated 2.1 supporting sustainable food and impact of the UK shopping basket by helping shoppers eat more sustainably, restoring nature in Group-wide through our food 2.3 food production and eliminating waste from the retail industry. agriculture systems that surplus redistribution 2.4 programmes in 2019/20. optimise production, minimise The UN estimates that approximately one third of all food produced in the world is lost or wasted. waste and provide nutrition for At Tesco, we think it’s simply not right that good food goes to waste when one in nine people are everyone is fundamental to our 67% of our stores across the going hungry each night. We work closely with food banks and charities wherever we operate to business. We are committed to Group participate in our donate good food that would otherwise go to waste. Organisations we have supported have making affordable, healthy, surplus food donation included homeless shelters, after-school clubs, food banks and domestic violence hostels. We also sustainable food accessible to programme. organise regular food collections during festive periods giving our customers the opportunity to join all and supporting communities us in donating food to help feed people in need. during a crisis. 3.4 We are committed to helping We want to make Tesco a healthier place to work and shop. Guided by our partnerships with Cancer 76% of Group colleagues and 57% our colleagues be at their best, Research UK, Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation we conducted colleague insight to help us of UK customers agree that Tesco 3.5 both physically and mentally, shape a new colleague health programme. We have provided health information through our helps them lead a healthy lifestyle. while at work and at home and colleague wellbeing weeks and various trial interventions have taken place during 2019 with both recognise the role we play in colleagues and customers. We continue to be proud supporters of Time to Change and in 42% of our ready meal range now helping our customers make collaboration with six other retailers and the Samaritans charity developed the Wellbeing in Retail contains 1 of 5 a day healthier food choices every guide. time they shop with us. 24.46bn calories removed from We are sharing ‘helpful little swaps’ in stores and online for customers, highlighting products lower in eight food categories through our sugar, fat or salt compared to the regular alternatives; and lowering prices on hundreds of healthier reformulation strategy products during our health events. During our health event in July 2019 our ‘helpful little swaps’ basket cost 11.6% less than a regular basket. We’ve also introduced Fresh 5 all year round; offers on 5 lines of fresh produce which change every fortnight. We recognise that some products we sell, such as alcohol, can be harmful if misused and we take our responsibility as a retailer of these products seriously. Our Responsible retailing of alcohol, tobacco and other age-restricted products policy sets out our approach to the sale of alcohol. We are committed to providing clear information to customers and we are the lead retail partner of Drinkaware and work with them to highlight alcohol awareness and responsible drinking guidance. We are committed to building At Tesco, inclusion means that everyone’s welcome. We value individuality and uniqueness, and everyone 81% of Tesco colleagues agree there 5.1 is treated fairly and with respect. We are part of the 30% Club, a campaign group of Chairs and CEOs an inclusive culture to unlock is an inclusive culture at Tesco. 5.5 the value of our diverse acting to increase gender diversity on boards and senior management teams. In Tesco Ireland we have 5.a workforce. We champion been accredited as one of 19 Best Workplaces for Women in recognition of the steps we have taken to In 2019 our UK mean gender pay gap gender diversity and are ensure women are treated fairly when it comes to recognition, training and promotion opportunities. was 12.6% and 8.0% median. committed to increasing the number of women in leadership Across the business we have various colleague network groups aimed at supporting an inclusive positions across the business. workplace. Our ‘Women at Tesco’ group focuses on providing women with advice and inspiration to drive their careers forward, develop a network and articulate how they add value to the business. In addition to our mandatory UK gender pay gap report, we have measured and reviewed our gender pay 250,000 women, girls and boys are position in Central Europe with the intention to voluntarily disclose in 2020/21. being helped, directly and indirectly through the Assam Improving Lives We also continue to strive towards gender equality in our supply chains and it forms a key theme of our Programme that Tesco is involved updated human rights strategy. In 2019, we developed a gender strategy identifying key areas of focus with in partnership with Unicef and and outlining our approach within priority supply chains. For example, in Latin America, as part of our other stakeholders. ethical due diligence and SMETA audit quality programme, we have begun strict enforcement of gender balance in all the worker committees to guarantee female workers have adequate representation. This ensures issues of specific importance to women are given the necessary attention during worker/management meetings. 7.2 We are committed to using 100% of the electricity sourced in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Slovakia and Hungary is supported by Group-wide, 68% of electricity cleaner energy and have renewable energy certificates. comes from renewable sources. 7.3 pledged to source 65% of our electricity from renewable In the UK we have installed four wind turbines and equipped 47 stores with solar panels to generate sources by 2020 and 100% by their own energy. In Thailand we have fitted 36 sites with solar panels. 2030. Everyone’s welcome at Tesco We are committed to equipping our colleagues with the skills they need to succeed, now and in the 77% of colleagues 8.3 and we are committed to future. As well as building on their existing skills, we are creating opportunities for colleagues to Group-wide agree they have the 8.5 reskill in areas where demand is likely to increase. We are also helping to develop the next generation helping our colleagues succeed opportunity to learn and develop at 8.6 of talent through programmes such as Movement to Work, which provides unemployed young people by providing them with the Tesco. 8.7 flexibility, skills and with training and work experience, and our partnership with the Prince’s Trust which gives disadvantaged young people the opportunity to learn new skills. 8.8 opportunities to get on. 19,000 young people have been Our ‘Learning at Tesco’ training platform provides colleagues with opportunities to gain knowledge helped to develop their and skills they need for the future, including management and digital skills. The platform delivers employability and life skills through training via virtual and face-to-face workshops and provides a library of useful information. our work with the Princes Trust and the IGD. We want everyone who works We are committed to upholding human rights and fully support the UN Universal Declaration of Human In 97% of our tier 1 high risk for, or with, Tesco to have their Rights, the International Labour Organization Core Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on sites in which critical human rights respected. We are Business and Human Rights. We are also committed to reporting regularly on our work to uphold non-conformances were committed to continually raising human rights in our supply chains. For our supply base specifically, we require that our suppliers identified in 2019/20, mitigation supply chain standards and uphold the full range of labour standards set out in the Ethical Trading Initiative’s Base Code. or remediation processes have ensuring that those working been implemented on time. within our supply chain are A review in 2018/19 led us to modify how we mitigate human rights risks in our supply chain. Our new protected. approach is based on three pillars: improving standards for people working in our own operations and our supply chains through continuous improvement programmes with suppliers, driving transformative industry-wide efforts to address endemic labour and community issues, and using our convening power to advocate for change. Our updated human rights strategy focuses on addressing the root causes underlying human rights abuses and we focus on the following four themes: sustainable livelihoods, worker representation, forced labour and gender equality. SDG and relevant Tesco Commitment Tesco Action Key Data target 12.3 We take the sustainability of our We have adopted UN SDG 12.3 to help halve food waste from farm to fork. We are proud members 77% of food surplus safe for human products and packaging of Champions 12.3, a coalition of leaders chaired by our CEO Dave Lewis to accelerate progress on consumption redistributed to 12.5 humans or animals in the UK extremely seriously and are this target. In September 2019 we pledged support to the Champions 12.3 10x20x30 initiative and 12.6 committed to supporting continue to engage and partner with suppliers to publicly report food waste data and to make as responsible consumption and much use of their crops as possible to minimise food waste. In December 2019 we widened our 58% reduction in tonnes of food production. We believe no food specifications on potatoes for our Farm Brands and Perfectly Imperfect ranges. wasted as percentage of tonnes sold compared to 2016/17 baseline that is safe for human in Central Europe consumption should be wasted Our Community Cookery School in the UK has trained over 1,000 community cooks to get the most and are committed to helping out of surplus food donations and help ensure perfectly edible food can be prepared into halve global food waste, from nutritious meals. farm to fork, by 2030 We are committed to promoting Our packaging strategy is focused on removing unnecessary plastic packaging and hard-to-recycle 10,000 tonnes of hard-to-recycle a closed loop system for materials, reducing packaging to an absolute minimum, exploring new opportunities to reuse materials eliminated packaging, where packaging is packaging and ensuring all packaging is recycled as part of a continuous loop. treated as a valuable resource 83% (by weight) of UK Own Brand that can be used, reused, In September 2019 we announced the removal of plastic bags from home deliveries and in January packaging is widely recyclable collected and recycled. All our 2020 we became the first retailer in the UK and Ireland to remove shrink-wrapped multipacks packaging will be fully recyclable across our Own Brand and branded tinned food. by 2025. 13.1 We are committed to scienceClimate change is the biggest environment challenge the world faces and we are committed to taking 37% reduction of GHG emissions based climate targets on a 1.5°C climate action. We have worked with external experts to set science-based targets which are aligned across the Group since 2015/16 13.2 trajectory. We will reduce with a 1.5°C trajectory and enable us to meet our zero-carbon ambition. Our carbon reduction strategy 13.3 absolute carbon emissions from focuses on the biggest emission hotspots in our operations: electricity and heating, refrigeration and our operations from 2015 levels: transport. 35% by 2020, 60% by 2025 and 100% by 2050. In 2017 we became signatories to the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and are committed to assessing, mitigating and disclosing the future risks and opportunities associated with climate change. We have completed scenario analyses of our biggest market, the UK, and prioritised our UK estate, produce and animal protein categories, Findings from the analyses is provided in our 2019/20 Annual Report. 14.1 As a global retailer we have a We are committed to supporting truly sustainable fisheries and the protection of marine 79% of UK seafood volume is crucial role in promoting healthy environments. We are working with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) to increase our range of certified as sustainable by MSC 14.4 oceans and fish stocks and certified sustainable counter, pre-packed, canned and frozen fish. Beyond certification we have preserving its resources for helped create the Global Tuna Alliance as part of a cross-industry collaboration to ensure the highest Tesco were awarded MSC UK future generations. We are standards in the tuna supply chain. Supermarket of the Year 2019 committed to Sustainably source all our wild fish. We continue to partner with the charity Sustainable Fisheries Partnership to collect data on our source fisheries, risk assess them and work with suppliers on improvements. Our commitment to transparency continues and all our wild seafood sources are publicly disclosed. SDG and relevant Tesco Commitment Tesco Action Key Data target 15.2 We are committed to achieving We continue to be a leading member of the Palm Oil Transparency Coalition (POTC), promoting certified 100% palm oil used in our 15.3 zero-net deforestation in our palm oil in our supply chain. We use the POTC annual rankings to push for faster industry progress to products in the UK, Republic of sourcing of raw materials in our protect forests, workers and communities. Ireland and Central Europe is 15.5 Own Brand products, including RSPO certified palm oil, wood/paper products We developed our Zero Deforestation Soy Transition Plan in 2018 in consultation with leading NGOs to and soy. Our sustainable help achieve our aim to source all the soy-based animal feed in our UK supply chain from areas verified 93% paper/wood in UK Own agriculture agenda aims to as having zero deforestation by 2025. We are supporting this with trials of more sustainable sources of Brand products are certified by promote food production that animal feed such as algal oil and insect protein. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), is compatible with protecting Programme for the Endorsement water resources, biodiversity, of Forest Certification (PEFC) or climate and soil health. In 2019 we became a signatory to the Statement of Support for the Cerrado Manifesto, signalling our from a recycled source. intention to incentivise soy farmers in the Cerrado to limit production to existing agricultural land. We became one of the first companies to join a new industry initiative, Funding for Soy Farmers in the Cerrado, committing £10m in funding over five years. Our contribution to the other goals. Table 2 summarises how we are contributing to the SDGs we have identified as lower priority for Tesco, where risks and opportunities for Tesco are fewer and/or where the contribution we can make is less significant. Table 2: Our contribution to the other goals SDG Tesco Action We have recently incorporated sustainable livelihoods for workers and smallholder farmers as one of four themes in our revised human rights strategy. This recognises that, although our trade provides opportunities and employment, there is still poverty associated with many different products and supply chains. For example, minimum wages may not be enough to meet worker’s basic needs or national infrastructure (e.g. in healthcare) may be insufficient. We recognise that workers and farmers need to receive a fair share of the value they contribute to a company’s products and be able to afford basic needs for themselves and their families. We are committed to working with workers, trade unions and NGOs in relevant supply chains to identify living wage benchmarks and publish examples of the gaps in prevailing wages. Examples of this work include our involvement in the Malawi 2020 tea project and our involvement in the Living Wage Advocacy Initiative, part of the World Banana Forum. In 2019/20 we have developed a sustainable livelihoods strategy which outlines priority supply chains, our approach to supporting livelihoods and key actions we will be taking. Further information is available on our website. We are committed to providing opportunities to help young people develop their employability skills and start their careers. In 2019, we welcomed 52 graduates, 18 apprentices and 44 paid interns onto one of our programmes in the UK. We have been working with the Prince’s Trust and specialist research and training charity Institute of Grocery Distribution (IGD) and have helped over 19,000 young people develop their employability and life skills since August 2018. Our partnership with the Prince’s Trust sees us supporting its Achieve Clubs, which give disadvantaged young people in secondary school the opportunity to develop the skills they need for the future. We also work with the IGD to help young people learn about the wide variety of roles available across the food and drinks industry, and the skills needed for a successful career in it. We have exceeded our original target of helping over 10,000 young people in three years in the first year of the partnership and are committed to continuing to create more opportunities in the future. Our agricultural and manufacturing supply chains use water for the production of our food and non-food products. It is therefore important that wherever our products are made, our supply chain operates in a way that safeguards this valuable resource for the future. This stewardship of water resources means using water more efficiently (especially in locations of water scarcity) and protecting water quality. We have analysed a number of our key UK supply chains to understand their exposure to water risk, including their overlap with environmentally sensitive river basins. Starting with some of our fresh produce supply chains, which rely heavily on natural sources of freshwater, we are putting in place improvement action plans. These include setting local reduction targets for water-stressed areas and establishing on-the-ground collaboration with other stakeholders. We continue to work with suppliers, NGOs and others within the industry to drive water stewardship in particular regions and commodities, for example we’re working with the WWF to drive improvements in the leather supply chain. SDG Tesco Action Sustainable innovation supports the Little Helps Plan in all areas. As a business we encourage a culture of innovation so that our business remains at the cutting edge of new trends and demands. For example, we have a market leading rage of plant-based foods, catering to a growing trend of veganism and flexitarian diets that also help shoppers eat more sustainably. We have initiatives across the Group to make our stores and operations more efficient and these investments have enabled us to reduce our net carbon intensity per sq. ft. of retail and distribution floor space by 8% compared with 2018/19. We are committed to upholding human rights and fully support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Core Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights within our own operations and supply chains internationally. Our work often promotes equality in our supply chain, supporting disadvantaged groups and promoting sustainable development. For example, we are helping to provide training for young people from disadvantaged communities in South Africa by funding a number of mentoring and leadership programmes specifically aimed at empowering women in our grape, stonefruit and topfruit supply chains. We are committed to creating an inclusive environment for customers and colleagues where everyone is welcome. We have a wide range of networks and initiatives to promote inclusion and in December 2019 we signed up to The Valuable 500, committing to making Tesco a more accessible place for colleagues and customers with disabilities. We’re committed to supporting projects and causes that bring benefits to the communities where we operate. In 2019/20, across the Group, we supported over 22,000 local projects and causes. To ensure our support goes to the right places in the UK, Ireland and Central Europe we give our customers and colleagues the opportunity to vote for the local causes that we support. Our Code of Business Conduct, which defines the standards and behaviours expected of colleagues, is a fundamental part of our culture and supports our values. The Code is supported by Group policies and mandatory training which includes: anti-bribery and corruption; competition law; data protection; and supplier legislation. In addition, ‘Protector Line’, an independent and confidential whistleblowing service, allows colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns regarding misconduct and any breaches of the Code of Business Conduct. We work in partnership with NGOs, suppliers and the wider industry to progress the Little Helps Plan, contribute to the SDGs and build the resilience and sustainability of our business. Examples include our four-year partnership with WWF with the ambition of halving the environmental impact of the average UK shopping basket; our work with FareShare to reduce food waste and support vulnerable people in communities across the UK; and our health charity partnership with Cancer Research UK, Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation to deliver our health strategy, to name but a few. UN Global Compact Principles. We have demonstrated our progress against the UNGC’s ten principles in our Little Helps Plan Report, Annual Report and on our website. The Table below summarises our approach against each of the ten principles accompanied with links to find more information. Issue Principle Tesco approach Links to more information and outcomes Area Human Rights 1 Businesses should support Our Human Rights Policy outlines our commitment to respecting human rights and UNGC www.tescoplc.com/lhp and respect the principles and sets out our governance and monitoring approach. protection of www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct internationally proclaimed We are committed to upholding human rights and support in full the UN Universal human rights. Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Core www.tescoplc.com/human-rights Conventions on labour standards, working hours and health and safety for workers. 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not If human rights issues are identified, we will seek to address them and understand the www.tescoplc.com/ar2020 complicit in human rights root causes of these abuses, working with suppliers, and other stakeholder groups to abuses. drive improvement. We know that many of the serious abuses that exist in countries around the world can be in lower tiers of supply chains, hidden from easy sight and hard to identify – particularly forced labour. Addressing these requires collaborative efforts with other businesses and civil society. We have committed to working to eradicate forced labour from our supply chains and have taken on a leading role through our membership of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) to develop this work. Labour 3 Businesses should We have incorporated effective worker representation as the third theme in our revised www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct uphold the freedom human rights strategy, recognising input from stakeholders, including global trade unions, of association and and our experience of working to remove barriers to effective worker representation in our the effective www.tescoplc.com/human-rights supply chains. recognition of the right to collective A significant part of our work within the worker representation pillar is about promoting www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/publications/policies/downl bargaining. dialogue between trade unions, suppliers, industry organizations, certification & audit oads/multi-stakeholder-initiatives/ companies. We have also worked with factories in Bangladesh, India and Turkey which supply 4 Businesses should uphold to Tesco to engage in the ETI Social Dialogue Programme to empower worker representatives www.tescoplc.com/sustainability/ff-sustainability the elimination of all forms and ensure free election of worker representatives. Our work will increasingly mean engaging of forced and compulsory strategic suppliers in the importance of worker representation via the ETI resources on labour. Freedom of Association, Collective Bargaining and worker representation. www.tescoplc.com/lhp To further emphasise to suppliers the importance Tesco places on worker representation, in www.tescoplc.com/modernslavery 5 Businesses should uphold 2019 we developed a set of expectations and guidance points for our suppliers. This the effective abolition of document helps to make clear to suppliers what adequate worker representation means child labour. www.tescoplc.com/ar2020 when local laws and cultures differ so considerably. 6 Businesses should uphold the We are fully committed to eradicating modern slavery in our operations and supply chains. elimination of We recognise that forced labour is a widespread issue in food and non-food supply chains discrimination in and is therefore a key theme within our refreshed human rights strategy. respect of employment and As part of our membership of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), we are one of the occupation. companies leading collaborative efforts to combat forced labour in the consumer goods sector. Such collaboration is particularly important in lower tiers of supply chains where we do not have direct commercial relationships. We helped to develop and strongly support the CGF’s Priority Industry Principles: (1) every worker should have freedom of movement; (2) no worker should pay for a job; (3) no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Our UK labour providers are registered with the Gangmasters Labour and Abuse Authority and prohibited from actively recruiting from outside of the UK without the prior agreement of Tesco, as recruiting people who have moved to the UK autonomously, and have the legal right to work here, reduces the risk of human trafficking and exploitation. We work collaboratively with our service providers to help ensure all temporary workers receive a reasonable number of paid hours each week and have the opportunity to transfer to permanent employment when vacancies arise. We have also reviewed our use of labour providers in other Tesco markets, starting with Thailand and Malaysia where we know that the charging of fees to workers by recruitment agents can be commonplace. We are working to reduce the number of labour providers we use placing our business with those we trust most, and where possible recruiting directly from migrant workers’ home countries where we need to do so, rather than recruiting via intermediaries, which can increase risks of worker indebtedness. In addition to work in our own operations on this issue detailed above, we have supported a number of programmes linked to tackling forced labour. In recent years, we have continued to address the risk of Sumangali and the restriction of workers’ freedom in India through the ETI Tamil Nadu Multi-Stakeholders Platform (TNMS) local consultative committee. We also continue to support and promote Stronger Together, an initiative combating forced labour risks in the UK and South Africa. More information can be found in our Modern Slavery Statement Environment 7 Businesses should support Our business success depends on the health and stability of our natural environment. www.tescoplc.com/lhp a precautionary approach We have a responsibility to help maintain the natural balance of our planet’s ecosystem and to environmental climate, from the sourcing of our fresh produce and other products to how we adopt and www.tescoplc.com/ar2020 challenges. promote sustainable production and consumption behaviours with our suppliers, colleagues and customers. 8 Businesses should www.tescoplc.com/carbon-footprint undertake initiatives to Within our Little Helps Plan, our Product and Planet pillars focus on initiatives to address promote greater important environmental issues, from packaging and food waste to climate change and environmental www.tescoplc.com/planet deforestation. Against each of these areas we have published commitments and action plans responsibility. and are working across our supply chain to drive improvement. 9 Businesses should www.tescoplc.com/wwf encourage the In 2018 we embarked upon a four-year partnership with WWF-UK in support of our development and commitment to make affordable, healthy, sustainable food accessible to all. This year we www.tescoplc.com/sustainablebasket diffusion of have created a pioneering industry measurement called the Sustainable Basket Metric that environmentally will enable us to measure progress towards our aim of halving the environmental impact of friendly www.tescoplc.com/food-waste/own-operations the average UK shopping basket. technologies. We recognised climate change as the biggest environmental threat the world faces, and one www.tescoplc.com/packaging which poses particular challenges to our business, including our supply chain and operations. Conversely, responding to climate change effectively can enhance our business resilience and enable us to respond to any opportunities it may offer, making us a better business in the long-term. We are committed to becoming a net zero business by 2050 and have established science-based carbon reduction targets in line with a 1.5°C trajectory. Alongside the work we are doing to our own operations to achieve our carbon goals, we also recognise that addressing climate change requires cross-industry action and supportive public policy. We engage with our peers as well as policy makers through our membership of various cross-industry forums, including the Aldersgate Group, The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group and RE100. Through these and other pre-competitive forums, we share our climate change approach and learnings and inspire others to raise our collective ambitions in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Anti10 Businesses should work Bribery and corruption distort competitive markets, increase the cost of doing business www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct Corruption against corruption in all its and harm customer trust. We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and to those forms, including extortion involved in bribery and our anti-bribery programme operates around the Group. The programme is built around a clear understanding of how and where bribery risks affect www.tescoplc.com/human-rights and bribery. our business and comprises key controls such as policies, procedures, training and ongoing assurance programmes to test that the controls are functioning effectively. www.tescoplc.com/group-anti-bribery-policy Our Code of Business Conduct, which defines the standards and behaviours expected of www.tescoplc.com/group-conflicts-of-interest-policy colleagues, is a fundamental part of our culture and supports our values. The Code is supported by Group policies and mandatory training which includes: anti-bribery and www.tescoplc.com/group-whistleblowing-policy corruption; competition law; data protection; and supplier legislation. In addition, ‘Protector Line’, an independent and confidential whistleblowing service, allows colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns regarding misconduct and any breaches of the www.tescoplc.com/lhp Code of Business Conduct. www.tescoplc.com/ar2020
