19/20 Give some love to what you have Annual and Sustainability Report ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Contents 3 This is Clas Ohlson 36 Directors’ Report 4 The year in brief 41 Risks and uncertainties 36 6 CEO’s statement 46 Chairman’s letter 9 Business environment and market 47 Corporate governance report 11 Operations 52 Board of Directors 24 12 Strategic framework 54 Group management 13 CO100+ 57 Financial statements 14 Targets and target fulfilment 65 Notes 17 Strategy Unique customer offer 85 Signatures 24 Strategy Outstanding customer service 86 Auditor’s report 29 Strategy Smartness and simplicity 89 Key ratios 96 Sustainability report 113 Store overview 114 History 11 115 The share 118 Information to shareholders Clas Ohlson is a Swedish company and is subject to Swedish law. All amounts are stated in Swedish kronor (SEK). Amounts in millions of SEK are abbreviated MSEK and thousands of SEK as SEK 000. Unless otherwise specified, figures in parenthesis pertain to 2018/19. Data regarding markets and competition reflect Clas Ohlson’s own assessments if a specific source is not quoted. These assessments are based on the best and most recent factual data from published sources in the public sector and the consumer goods industry. About the annual report 17 29 96 Clas Ohlson presents financial and non-financial information integrated in a single report. The report includes standard and specific disclosures based on the GRI Standards guidelines. The scope of the statutory sustainability report is stated on page 97. The statutory annual report encompasses the Directors’ Report and the financial statements on pages 36-84. This Annual and Sustainability Report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, the former shall have precedence. Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Miltton. Photos: Clas Ohlson, Gustav Kaiser, Jan Nordén, Henrik Hansson and Javad Parsa. 2 CLAS OHLSON ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019/20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C L A S O H LSO N IN BRIEF Our mission To help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at Unique attractive prices. position in 1,086 MSEK 40 Strategy for sustainable, profitable growth Sustainable lifestyle in all areas We help our customers live as Nordic retail 3,991 MSEK Leveraging the strength of our sustainably as possible. Our cuscity Un pli iqu relevant offerings and large, loytomers and employees must be 500 si m Passionate about e al customer base, we will play a confident that the products and Smartness an simplifying life in er offer 97 stom all kinds of homes greater and more important role in services that we sell are safe to d cu Online Mission Values 2,250 every home and grow profitability use, were produced under decent Sustainable profitable growth in the Nordic market. We do this working conditions and transportOu cu tsta n din g e Online sto m e r s e r vi c by providing a unique customer ed with as low environmental and Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a offer, outstanding customer service climate impact as possible. mail order business based in Insjön, Dalarand by conducting operations in a na, Sweden. Today, we are a retail company 3,590 MSEK smart and simple manner. with customers in five markets, approximately 4,500 employees, and sales of approximately 90 8.8 billion SEK. Our share is listed on Nasdaq Relevant and affordable products Stockholm. 1,600 We offer products that make everyday life easy, with high demands placed on A lot has happened since the start, but 92 MSEK Online function, price, quality, product safety and one thing has remained the same over the sustainability. With around 15,000 prodyears; that we want to help and inspire peo1 ucts and some 1,000 spare parts, we ple to improve their everyday lives by offering have everything you need to maintain your smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive 60 home and garden, fix up your home office prices. Read more about us and our pasor just take it easy. sion about simplifying life in all kinds of home Online The customer’s best interests at about.clasohlson.com. Customer needs govern the offering in our approximately 230 stores. Our most popular store The Clas Ohlson spirit About 40% of our – our online store – features our entire offering of Our people are all unique, but they have one thing in common: purchases are made products and spare parts and is open 24 hours the Clas Ohlson spirit. All of our employees and customers are directly through our a day, with delivery available to stores, home to feel welcome and appreciated. Each employee brings their 60 employees at our or parcel depots. Our customer service centre unique background and experience to make everyday life a little Shanghai office. responds quickly to most questions via phone, easier and smarter, always with a focus on the customer. chat or e-mail. 3 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A NCLAS U S T A ANNUAL D SOHLSON I N A B IAND L I TSUSTAINABILITY Y R E P O R REPORT T 2 0 12019/20 9/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE OP E R AT IO N S/ FIN A NCIA LS An eventful year • Organic growth in our Nordic home markets • Strong underlying earnings Our systematic and goal-conscious work has yielded the results we were after. The initiatives we car• CO100+ action programme completed ried out under the CO100+ action programme have given us a better platform for approaching an un• 5.2%* EBIT margin in line with 4-6% target certain and changing future. We have also continued to make it easier for our customers to live a little • Solid financial position net debt / EBITDA 0.0* more sustainably and contributed to our local society. *Excl IFRS 16 • The organisational review that was announced in February • Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV) were implemented as a was completed at the end of 2019. Measures taken under part of the first step of the distribution centre in Insjön. These Sales in stores/online the CO100+ action programme affected about 200 positions, vehicles streamline the internal transportation of pallets and Key ratios primarily at the head office and the distribution centre. goods. 6% 2019/20 2018/2019 • Clas Ohlson is making additional investments in MatHem, an • As a result of the restrictions in various countries to limit the important part of Clas Ohlson’s strategy to establish a unique spread of COVID-19, around 300 store employees were temSales, MSEK 8,758 8,772 position in terms of accessibility and convenience for its cusporarily laid off and around 200 office employees had their Operating profit, MSEK 549 94 tomers. hours reduced by around 20 per cent from the middle of April 94% 2020 for about two months. Operating profit, excl. IFRS 16, MSEK 454 94 • Clas Ohlson’s new partnership with Kolonial.no, Norway’s Underlying operating profit, MSEK 581 497 largest online food retailer, began at the start of September. • Macroeconomic trends and their impact on the retail sector Online Store Profit after tax, MSEK 376 72 From the very start it was positively received by customers, as a result of COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this stage, the following the same trend we noted for MatHem in Sweden. A Board intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s solid financial posiGross margin, % 39.8 39.8 pilot project with Wolt in Finland was also launched during the tion and flexibility and therefore proposes that no dividend be Operating margin, % 6.3 1.1 Net sales per country year. paid for the 2019/20 financial year. 1% Operating margin, excl. IFRS 16, % 5.2 1.1 12% • We work continuously to optimise the store network. During Cash flow from operating activities, MSEK 1,284 312 the 2019/20 financial year, the store network was reduced Equity/assets ratio, % 30.5 49.0 by a net four stores. The number of contracted forthcoming 46% store openings at 30 April was two stores. Equity/assets ratio, excl. IFRS 16, % 51.0 49.0 41% Net debt/EBITDA, multiple 1.8 0.5 Net debt/EBITDA, excl. IFRS 16, multiple 0.0 0.5 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 5.94 1.13 Sweden Finland Norway Outside the Nordics 4 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O P E R ATIO N S/ SO C IE TY The 2020 Sustainable Brand Index revealed that Clas Ohlson is perceived Clas Ohlson is one of the best to be the best at sustainability among companies on the Stockholm companies in the leisure and home Stock Exchange in terms of genelectronics sector. der equality, according to the Allbright foundation. Economic value by stakeholder group 2019/20 7% 20% Suppliers/ During the year, we have more clearly business partners communicated which products support 73% Employees a more sustainable lifestyle. Society We have had a strategic partnership Clas Ohlson is launching a product Of the value generated in the 2019/20 financial with Save the Children for several range for kid’s bedrooms, with a focus year, suppliers and partners received a total of 6,158 years to improve the situation for mion sustainable wooden toys. A promMSEK. Salaries and other remuneration to employgrant-worker parents and their children inent feature of this campaign is the ees amounted to 1,686 MSEK. Due to the uncertainin China. Measures were taken quickly environment and sustainability, and it ty stemming from COVID-19 and macroeconomic in response to the outbreak of includes a new series of FSC labelled trends, the Board proposes that no dividend COVID-19 to gain insight into coronaviwooden toys designed in-house. be paid. rus and its consequences and to help more people communicate through In March 2020, Clas Ohlson Key ratios digital tools. began a partnership with SweAs a part of our partnership with the children’s rights organiden’s City Missions where sursation World Childhood Foundation, we launched “children’s 2019/20 2018/19 plus products from stores are rights plasters.” The plasters are sold at Clas Ohlson and all of Products for a more sustainable lifestyle sent to ten local City Missions. 21% 19% the sales proceeds go to Childhood’s efforts to prevent violence Clas Ohlson began a partnershare of sales Some products are donated and sexual abuse against children. ship with PantaPå, where Clas Percentage of suppliers meeting the requireto participants and social op98% 98% ments of the Code of Conduct erations, while others are sold Ohlson customers can recycle Employee attendance 94% 94% in City Mission’s second-hand the bags they buy in stores in CO2 emissions from transportation in relation Clas Ohlson partnered with 14 companies and organisations stores, where the focus is on exchange for a rebate coupon 1.56 g CO2/SEK 1.63 g CO2/SEK (KEEP) to develop a traceability system for electric and electo sales work integration. All proceeds to use for select sustainable Percentage of recyclable new packaging 100% tronic products. go to local social work. products. Read more about our sustainability targets and outcomes on pages 15-16. 5 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C E O ’ S STATE MENT Strong position to continue our journey of change Clas Ohlson is continuing to establish a unique position in the Nordic retail market. Despite challenging market conditions and the coronavirus pandemic, we can look back on a financial year with organic sales growth of 3 per cent in the Nordics. In 2019/20, our total sales were at the same A dramatic fourth quarter level as the previous year (8,758 MSEK comBefore I describe the entire financial year in “THO US ANDS OF pared with 8,772 MSEK) and operating profit more detail, I want to comment on the very MOTIVATED CO -WOR K ER S improved to 549 MSEK (94). The operating dramatic conclusion to our financial year O VER THE YEAR S HAVE margin thus amounted to 6.3 per cent and brought on by the coronavirus pandemic. The B U I LT C L A S O H L S O N 5.2 excluding IFRS 16, which is in line with the pandemic began as an issue that primarily I N T O W H AT I T I S T O D AY. ” target of 4-6 per cent that we have had for the affected our purchasing operations in China two years that we have been carrying out the and then hit our sales markets with full force by CO100+ action programme. mid-March. The safety of our people and cus6 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C E O ’ S STATE MENT tomers has always been our number one priorWe can summarise that the combination of a Customers also appreciate the option to shop ity. In parallel with establishing new procedures product range for all kinds of homes, popuat Clas Ohlson through other platforms. The and safety measures, we also started adapting lar stores in prime locations, online shopping partnerships with the online food retailers our commercial offering to the prevailing ciron our own and other companies’ platforms, MatHem in Sweden and Kolonial.no in Norway cumstances. We experienced only minor interflexible delivery options and a strong service are developing well. During the spring, sales for ruptions to our supply chain, while the reduced offering generated sales during a very difficult MatHem and Kolonial.no increased significantfootfall in our stores had a greater impact. Inperiod. This also puts us in a strong position ly as a result of the pandemic and this trend stead, many customers chose the convenience to build on and to create customer value and of online shopping, but the situation still meant shareholder value over time. that we needed to introduce temporary lay-offs INCR EAS E IN O UR O Nboth in stores and in administrative positions for the first time in the company’s history. CO100+ action programme completed Many of the new alternatives and possibilities 84% L INE S HO PPING DUR ING THE TWO-YEAR PER IO D we offer our customers were implemented as We remain humble with respect to the longpart of the CO100+ action programme. The term consequences of the pandemic. We still program ran from September 2018 to April held true for sales of Clas Ohlson’s products on do not know how the macroeconomic situation 2020 and initiatives under the framework of these platforms. During the year we could also will develop over time and how customer bethe program included both cost-saving and add Wolt as a partner in Finland. Our pilot prohaviour will be affected in the long term, but I growth-generating projects – all to realise our ject with Amazon in the UK was so successful firmly believe that we would have never been strategy and achieve our goals. In brief, our that we have now chosen to close our UK and able to manage the situation as well as we investments created a brand new customer German online shopping sites to focus entirely have if we had not implemented our transforjourney, where convenience and accessibility on sales through Amazon in these markets. mation of the company and created an entirely are as important as a relevant and affordable new way to interact with our customers. When product range. We also strengthened our logisOur DIY service, Clas Fix it, remains very popular we launched our new strategy just over two tics system and how we plan and present our among customers, but the roll-out planned from years ago, we invested a great deal of time and product range, and added several new skills in the Stockholm region to Gothenburg, Malmö energy in understanding the everyday problems automation and AI, for example. and Lund has been delayed due to the coronaour customers have at home. We also work virus pandemic. The expansion will continue more regularly with customer analysis and are The major upgrade of our online shopping platwhen conditions are easier to predict. Instead, more data-driven in our decision-making. This form that we carried out in autumn 2019 is a we launched a video call version of Clas Fix it means that we know more about the role we prime example of where we can see immediahead of schedule during the spring, which is play in our customers’ lives and the assortment ate results of our efforts. We could start “black now available for all Club Clas members nationof products we need to have in order to stay week” and the Christmas shopping season wide. relevant in different situations, for example, with a better online customer experience and when customer needs change quickly, as they now have significantly more opportunities to Harmonising stores and online shopping did during the coronavirus pandemic. Among adapt and update the sales channel for future We are continuing to take advantage of our other things, we saw extreme peaks in demand needs. Online sales during the last two years stores as a part of our online shopping logistics for home office products, food storage and arts have increased by a total of 84 per cent, which chain. We have remodelled stores to serve as and craft activities for children – needs which means that we nearly reached our goal of doumini warehouses for online shopping customwe met very well. bling our online sales. ers and Click & Collect – the option of picking up products in our stores that were ordered online – continues to grow in popularity. During 7 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C E O ’ S STATE MENT the spring, we also introduced the option for machines that shorten lead times in deliveries Clas Ohlson would have done if he had founded customers to pick up their purchases outside to customers and that improve safety for our the company today. Just the fact that he chose the store in order to reduce the spread of coroemployees. These are some of the many difto start a new company in 1918, when the Spannavirus and improve availability and conveniferent capabilities that will be important as we ish flu was at its worst, says something about his ence for our customers. continue to build the Clas Ohlson of tomorrow. ability to see opportunity in change. I think we can learn a lot from his courage to test new methods. At the same time, we are expanding on our A sustainable customer journey That is how things have been during the more personal meetings in stores with investments Our long history of contributing to society is than 100 years since Clas Ohlson was founded in sales training and to improve the customer something that we will nurture to become an and that is how they will continue to be. experience. A profitable store network, repreeven greater strength for the company going senting 94 per cent of our sales, is essential forward. We have an ambitious sustainability Thousands of motivated co-workers over the for our well-being. That is why, as announced agenda that spans several areas – a more susyears have built Clas Ohlson into what it is today. previously, we are evaluating all of our individual tainable everyday life at home for our customers They created a strong framework with a corporate stores and are in discussions with our landlords through our products and services is our greatculture with a genuine focus on the customer and to ensure that the terms better match retail est opportunity to have a positive impact. Our a financial position that enables us to withstand conditions today and in the future. This means goal is for at least 25 per cent of our sales in difficult business environments. I would like to that we are reviewing profitability and lease 2020/21 to come from our products for a more extend my sincere thanks to all of these previous terms, as well as whether the store location and sustainable lifestyle, and this year we achieved employees. I would also like to thank all of our fansize are optimal for the local market. During the a share of 21 per cent of sales. We also believe tastic current colleagues, who develop our range, year we closed seven stores, moved three and that it is important for each product to be used help customers in our stores or online, ensure fast opened three new stores in locations where we as long as possible and then recycled. During and flexible deliveries and take new steps to build believe we have a platform for profitable growth. the year, we started charging deposits on plasour service offering every day. tic bags and we are now expanding our rental A more agile organisation product range to include all of our stores. We On a personal note, I would like to express my In addition to a variety of tangible initiatives that once again managed to lower our carbon emisgratitude for the fantastic time I have had at Clas can be seen by customers, part of the CO100+ sions and are now developing a sustainability Ohlson before embarking on a new position outaction programme involved transforming our strategy that will include targets for reducing side the company in a few months. Until then, I organisation to lower costs and to create an emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and will keep working with the same energy and pasorganisation with the right skills mix to meet limiting global warming to 1.5°C. sion for Clas Ohlson as I have during these years. future customer needs. Since the programme When I hand over the helm to my successor, I do started, we have reduced the office organisaThe journey of change continues so with the conviction that the 4,500 co-worker tion by about 20 per cent. We have also simI’m very proud of how we have kept up the strong team, which constitutes Clas Ohlson today, plified our management structure to create a pace of change and the work with our stratewill continue the journey at an even faster pace, more agile organisation. The cost savings allow gic agenda despite difficult external conditions. getting to know our customers even better – to S HAR E O F us to invest further. We are currently building Change has been a keyword in retail for several ensure Clas Ohlson continues to simplify lives in a new competence for our digital offering and years and the coronavirus pandemic has all kinds of homes for 100 more years. 21% PR O DUCTS F OR A MOR E S US TAINABL E have already invested in new areas such as AI, further accelerated that rate of change. L IF ES TYL E customer analysis and product design. At our Lotta Lyrå distribution centres, we have invested in autoWith a great deal going on here and now, it is President and CEO mated guided vehicles and new packing interesting to look back and reflect on what Insjön, June 2020 8 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE BU S I N ESS ENV IRO N MENT More young and old Sustainability throughout the chain A partly new The population is continuing to age, urban density is increasing and single-person Consumption is becoming successively less of an ends in itself, as thoughts of business households remain typical in the Nordic countries. The average life expectancy in sustainability grow and the circular economy advances. This trend is driven by the Nordics has increased by an average of 1.5 years over the past decade. The new patterns of consumption and regulations on both a national and an EU level. proportion of young consumers with a foreign background is rising. Consumers Reduced use of plastics, lead and other material will continue, at the same time are increasingly concerned with the way in which their modern lifestyle affects as companies seek new business models to facilitate the transition to a circuenvironment their health and well-being and about not overburdening natural resources unneclar economy, where consumers become users, products become functions and essarily. waste becomes a resource. For Clas Ohlson, this means we seek to gain deep understanding of individuFor Clas Ohlson, this means that in order to make it easier for customers to live a al customer needs regardless of where they live or the type of home they have. little more sustainably, we will phase out all single-use plastic items, improve our Our offering is to be relevant and accessible and develop according to different packaging and products in the design process and continue to place high decustomer requirements regardless of if they live in northern Finland or in southern mands on quality, materials and chemicals. We also offer tool hire and repairs and The change of pace in Sweden or however they may live. spare parts to prolong the life of the products we sell. the market is accelerating and the significance of the home is growing. The significance of the home Digital and physical meetings A year ago, we wrote “the world is changing before our The restrictions and recommendations put in place in the wake of the corona With online retail as a driving force, shopping will become increasingly divided into very eyes”. We are now convinced that it is more imperpandemic have led to a situation where it is more normal to spend more time at convenience and needs versus entertainment and leisure. Accordingly, customers ative than ever to have insight into and be able to quickhome. The home has expanded in its functionality, acting as an office, a place to will also evaluate their shopping experience according to benefit or stimulation, ly adapt to the driving forces and trends in our business study, and a space for play and stimulation for children. depending on the situation in which they find themselves. The value of having environment and in our industry. This is crucial for consmart omni-channel solutions was particularly apparent during the spring. tinuing to deliver profitable and sustainable growth. We For Clas Ohlson this means that we are constantly analysing how we can satisfy believe that the changes that we have seen since the our customers’ various needs with a relevant product range for DIY, home office For Clas Ohlson, this means that we add value to the customer journey in the spread of the corona pandemic across our sales marequipment as well as an attractive offering for leisure and the garden. Our focus form of inspiration and convenience by optimising the customer experience in kets, such as customers spending more time at home on simplifying life in the home and offering smart solutions is our core operation. various ways, both online and in stores, based on what the customer needs and and an increase in online shopping, will remain somewants. We are continuing to develop our online shopping platform and our store what of the norm even in the future. network. We are developing our strategical partnerships. MatHem, Kolonial.no and Wolt are running home deliveries and Amazon is our partner for online shopping outside of the Nordic countries. 9 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE More smart homes Price vs quality The smart home is still advancing. The products consumers In the retail sector, the low-price chains’ market share has consider to be most attractive are remotely controlled devices grown, while at the same time there is now a trend towards an for heating and lighting, as well as voice-controlled assistants. increase in the consumption value of premium products. ReThe smart home market is expected to grow 80 per cent by tailers not classified as low-price or premium are pressed in the 2023. middle segment. For Clas Ohlson, this means that we are expanding our range of For Clas Ohlson, this means that we are constantly improving efproducts for the smart home, since we regard the smart home ficiency of the entire organisation with smarter and simpler busias part of our natural territory – as part of our long history of ness processes. To meet customer demands for a relevant offeroffering smart solutions for the home and as part of our strategic ing that offers value for money, we are investing in using primary focus on simplifying life in the home. data in advanced analyses and performing thorough quality and sustainability tests. In this way, we can tailor and develop a sustainable offering to various needs in our markets. The strength of the Clas Ohlson brand in our home market and our popular proprietary products that offer great value for money are all competitive advantages. Analysis and AI Talent quest Retail companies capable of analysing large amounts of data to The ability to attract and retain skilled employees is absolutely then use for relevant decision-making in the business developvital. Maintaining a reputable image as an employer is an imporment process have a competitive advantage. The goal is to detant competitive advantage, particularly when it comes to atvelop the right offering and enhance efficiency with all customer tracting the digital generation who place high demands on what interactions whether it be online, in-store or in the home. is the right workplace environment for them. For Clas Ohlson this means that we not only invest in infrastrucBased on the clear corporate culture in the spirit of our founder ture and tools but also in establishing smarter working processClas Ohlson, this means that we are working for increased flexSet the coffee machine for the es and increasing expertise within data-driven working methods ibility and diversity and that we become clearer about what we morning or the lights in your livand AI. offer our employees. Clas Ohlson aims to be an attractive working room on a timer. With the Clas place in which to grow and we support our employees on their Ohlson Home app, you can control journey forward. Our leadership, skills development and belief in your lamps, appliances and other our employees equips us for the future and cultivates an organidevices with your mobile phone. sation prepared to shoulder new challenges. Simply connect your Clas Ohlson Home products to your Wi-Fi network. 10 10 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S T R AT EGY Clas Ohlson spirit important support for change On the A strong corporate culture is always important, but perhaps even more important in times of change. Our established objective going forward rests right entirely on the unshakeable attitude of our founder Clas Ohlson in which he was constantly searching for new ways to satisfy customers. We are continually working with our internal activities in order track to put the behaviour that is at the core of the Clas Ohlson spirit into practice so that we can also pass down our proud legacy. His behaviour is described in five short stories with the below headings. Clas Ohlson is on an Customer Welcome Keep it One Clas Be like Clas exciting journey. The Ohlson – Be yourself first home simple path we have chosen Clas was curious and eager to learn new Clas was honest and direct and went his to take in the past few The customer should be happy with any Clas Ohlson’s home was also where his Clas never used fancy words and saw no things every day. To help the customown way – always one step ahead. He did interaction they have with us, said Clas. business was located. He had a genuvalue in making things more complicated er – regardless if the customer was his not hesitate to try new ways, not afraid of Although Clas had many things on his ine interest in both his customers and than they were. He often asked, how can years has laid the founco-worker or someone writing a letter of failure, because he knew out of a 100 ideplate, he started every day by answering co-workers. He knew that every relationwe make this more simple and efficient? complaint – was his way to both share his as only one or two were successful. But customer letters. His strong belief was that ship mattered. Each morning he shook the Where can we cut costs to give the cusknowledge and develop his business. His he made sure to reflect and learn from his dation for us to be able no matter what you do in the company, hand of every co-worker and listened to tomer a better deal? With that mind-set, co-workers helped him with bringing many mistakes – and try again. That’s just who the customer and the customer experiwhat was going on in their lives. By doing he turned a small bicycle repair shop in of his ideas to life, and they stood by his he was, courageous, curios and eager to ence should always be top of mind. that he did not only build a strong work Insjön into a successful multinational retail to meet the challenges priorities of always putting the customer challenge conventions. place, he and his co-workers also learned business. first. Together, with shared goals, is how Today we are the ones putting the what the customer wanted. the company Clas Ohlson succeeded. Today we are the ones having the and opportunities customer first. Today we are the ones keeping it courage to be ourselves. Not afraid to Today we are the ones who make our simple and efficient, and growing our Today we are the ones building One try, and try again. customers, and each other, feel like business by doing so. presented to us. Clas Ohlson. home. 11 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S T R AT EGIC FRA MEW O RK Our three strategic Strategy for sustainable, focus areas profitable growth Unique customer offer With an increasingly focused product offering in which the home is defined as our arena, at the same time as we successively complement our product CLAS OHLSON’S AMBITION is to simplify the range of smart services for practical problem-solving in the home environment, we remain relevant for our large and growing customer base. We will customer’s everyday life in a sustainable manner. also increase the share of proprietary brands and focus intensively on offering sustainable solutions. Read more on pages 19-23. In 2018, we presented our five-year growth strategy Clas Ohlson 100 more years. Under this strategy, we will leverage the strength of Outstanding customer service our relevant offerings and large, loyal customer base, to play a greater and more important role licity Un iqu We are increasing added value by offering even better availability and perp in every home and grow profitability in the Norm sonalised guidance both in stores and online. The store is the most impordic market. We do this by providing a unique si Passionate about e tant hub of our operations. At the same time, we offer simple and convenSmartness an simplifying life in er offer customer offer, outstanding customer service Satisfied customers ient solutions for the growing proportion of customers who order products stom all kinds of homes and by conducting operations in a smart and Satisfied employees online. Read more on pages 24-28. cu simple manner. d Mission Values These three strategic areas, together with our sustainability agenda, are intended to conShareholder value tribute to meeting our overall target of being Smartness and simplicity Sustainable a meaningful and trusted brand and company profitable growth that is “passionate about simplifying life We are simplifying and streamlining our entire operations. This means that we Ou in all kinds of homes” and thus deliver longcu tsta n din g e are investing in better systems and streamlining the operations throughout sto m c e r s e r vi term profitable growth. We have realised this the chain, by focusing on product development, purchasing and distribution. strategy in the first two years and completed The business system that was implemented throughout the organisation at our change process under the CO100+ action the beginning of the 2018/19 financial year is an important prerequisite for the programme (see next page). efficiency measures we are carrying out to strengthen and optimise the flow of goods across the entire value chain. Read more on pages 29-34. 12 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE The CO100+ action programme completed About 20 projects were carried out in the past initiatives that were carried out focused on two financial years 2018/19 and 2019/20 under increasing sales per square metre, increasing the CO100+ action programme to achieve essales per customer and doubling online sales tablished growth and profitability targets. Durevery other year. Online sales increased by 84 ing this period, 1-2 per cent of the underlying per cent and sales per square metre and per operating margin was invested in activities to customer have risen. drive sales growth and generate cost savings. As part of this work, we both modernised and Cost-saving measures corresponding to 225enhanced the efficiency of our work methods 250 MSEK have now been implemented. Cerby establishing a solid platform in the business tain measures have gradually generated rebased on both new and existing skills and sigsults over the two-year period. The remaining nificantly higher digital expertise. The growth earnings effect of about 150-160 MSEK will be realised in the 2020/21 financial year. Defined strategy in the CO100+ action programme ...to achieve Clas Ohlson’s CO100+ summary financial targets... Lower cost level The road ahead ...focus on strategic initiatives... Average annual organic Cost-saving measures correspondsales growth of 5% ing to 225-250 MSEK have now Lower cost level of approximately during the current five been implemented 225-250 MSEK year period • Goods not for resale, 70-75 MSEK Cost-saving initiatives 200-250 MSEK • Sourcing, 110-120 MSEK • A more efficient organisation • Implementation of a more Expected P&L-effect • A more optimised assortment effective organisation and logistics, Operating margin of equivalent to approximately 150• Indirect purchasing, sourcing and 45-55 MSEK 6-8% within a five year 160 MSEK during 2020/21 An action programme... logistics more systemised period Growth initiatives Growth During the 2018/19 and 2019/20 • Sales per customer increases Platform in place for profitable financial years, approximately • Sales per square metre increases Sales per customer up growth 1–2% of the underlying operating • Sales online to double every other Sales per square metre up margin has been invested in year Online sales +84% strategic initiatives in the CO100+ action programme. 13 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE TAR G E TS A ND TA RGET FU L FILM ENT 1. Growth 2. Profitability 3. Financial position 4. Dividend Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework Sales will increase organically an average of 5 Operating margin will amount to 6-8 per cent Net debt in relation to EBITDA to fall below The dividend is to comprise at least 50 per per cent annually over a five-year period. within a five-year period. two (2) times. cent of earnings per share after tax, consid• Investments are being planned as regards ering the company’s financial position. During the 2018/19 and 2019/20 financial financial position, cash flow and strategic • Over the years 2018/19 and 2019/20, years, approximately 1-2 per cent of the unactivities the ambition is that the dividend will be derlying operating margin is expected to be maintained on a level with the 2016/17 invested in strategic initiatives in the CO100+ financial year, in absolute terms Target: action programme. The aim for 2018/19-2019/20 has been to deliver an operating margin of 4-6 per cent, Profitable excluding the effects of IFRS 16. Target fulfilment Target fulfilment Target fulfilment Target fulfilment growth Sales in the Nordics increased 2 per cent The operating margin was 6.3 per cent (1.1). Excluding IFRS 16, net debt in relation to Macroeconomic trends and their impact to 8,666 MSEK (8,489), organic growth IFRS 16 had a positive effect on operating EBITDA was 0.0 (0.5). Net debt in relation to on the retail sector as a result of COVID-19 up 3 per cent, and total sales and organic margin of 1.1 percentage points. EBITDA including IFRS 16 amounted to 1.8 remain uncertain. At this stage, the Board growth were unchanged at 8,758 MSEK (0.5) times. intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s solid fi(8,772). Online sales increased 25 per cent. nancial position and flexibility and therefore proposes that no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial year. Clas Ohlson’s financial targets include organic growth of 5 per cent. From the 2020/21 finanSales, MSEK Operating margin, % Net debt/EBITDA ratio Dividend per share, SEK cial year, the set target is to reach an operating margin of 6-8 per cent. In addition, net debt in relation to EBITDA is to fall below two (2) times 9,000 8 1.0 6.25 6.25 and the dividend is to comprise at least 50 per 0.5 5.7% 6.3% 0.5 cent of earnings per share after tax. 8,000 6 0.0 0 7,000 4 -0.2% -0.5 3.5%* 6,000 2 0 -1.0 5,000 0 -1.5 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20* 17/18 18/19 19/20* Online * Excluding non-recurring cost for the closure of * Excluding IFRS 16 * Proposed dividend Store the store network outside the Nordic countries. 14 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE TAR G ETS A ND TA RGET FUL FILM ENT 4. An attractive & 1. A sustainable offering 2. A responsible supply chain 3. A sustainable customer meeting sustainable employer Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework The share of sustainable products will amount 100 per cent of suppliers are to fulfil the requireIncrease the knowledge of sustainability issues Our employees to perceive that we live up to at least 25 per cent of sales in 2020/21. ments of our Code of Conduct as regards workamong our employees in our stores, inform our to our brand position. • The assessment has been made from uping conditions, human rights and environment. customers more clearly. 15-20 per cent of our employees are to dated guidelines and a specific model for • The ambition to further contribute to long• Sustainability is integrated into everything have a background in another country than Clas Ohlson term improvements for our suppliers we do the one they currently work in by 2025. • Implement plastics strategy • Define Clas Ohlson’s level of responsibility in • Our employees can guide customers towards • The ambition to expand the proportion of our supply chain regarding sub-contractors. sustainable choices and solutions Continued work to Target: sustainable electronic products • Partnership with KEEP • Strengthen the communication behind our • increase employee attendance • Define a strategy for wood and paper sustainability activities • have an equal distribution of men and women in all groups and at all levels Target fulfilment Target fulfilment Target fulfilment • be an inclusive organisation, where we Sustainable respect each other and conduct ourThe proportion of sustainable products has Percentage of suppliers meeting the requireSustainability comprises an integrated part of our selves in accordance with our culture increased to 21 per cent. We are delivering ments of our Code of Conduct amounted to strategy and we survey employee opinion of our and values on our plastics strategy. Work has begun on 98 per cent. We carried out a pilot programme sustainability activities. Internal information on everyday life expanding the proportion of sustainable elecduring the year to prevent deviations from the sustainability was updated during the year, and tronic products. The strategy for wood and Code of Conduct. Mapping and initial analyses new sustainability training courses have been paper has been incorporated in the process of sub-contractors has been carried out on launched to make it easier for employees to help Target fulfilment of formulating a design and product strategy. battery suppliers. our customers live more sustainably. We guide the customer towards sustainable products onEmployee attendance Products for a sustainable lifestyle, % Proportion of suppliers meeting the reline. We have defined our brand repositioning in During the financial year, we have focused on quirements of the Code of Conduct with line with sustainability and we aim to be one of 94% eight target areas meant to clearly reflect and 21 no serious deviations, % the leading companies in our segment. support our strategy of 100 more years. This Total gender equality means that we should act in a responsible way in our everyday lives that, in the long-term, 98 Brand position: The target is to be perceived as a meaningful and trusted brand and 45% women 19 makes it easier for our customers to live their 16 96 98 company. 55% men own everyday lives in a sustainable manner. The 2020 Sustainable Brand Manager positions Index revealed that Clas 35% women Ohlson is perceived to be 65% men the best at sustainability among companies in the International diversity leisure and home electronics 8% 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 sector in Sweden and Norway. Target 25% Target 100% 15 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE 6. Our role in society shall TAR G E TS A ND TA RGET FU L FILM ENT contribute to our target of being a 5. Ensure compliance and high meaningful and trusted brand and 7. Reduce CO2 emissions 8. Efficient, sustainable packaging business ethics company in our operations along our entire value chain Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework Targets and framework Ensure zero tolerance toward corruption and Meaningful and trusted brand. • Reduced CO2 emissions from transportaEfficient packaging chain from the design compliance with our standards for business • Our social responsibility is closely linked to tion in relation to our sales. Optimisation of phase all the way to the stores or direct to ethics. our operations and we have a prominent the transportation flow. Requirements for customers’ homes. In 2019/20, all packag• The Code of Conduct and Code of Busifocus on children’s rights partners regarding home deliveries ing is to be recyclable. ness Ethics define the requirements and • Our strategic partnerships with the World • 30 per cent energy optimisation by 2030 • Implement plastics strategy instructions that both employees and Childhood Foundation and Save the in our stores, the distribution centre and • Model for assessing sustainable prodpartners are expected to follow Children, in which training of our suppliers in our offices (base year 2014) ucts implemented, which also includes • Unannounced audits will be carried out at China and employees in our home markets is packaging regular intervals an important aspect • Reduction of the use of packaging ma• Innovation and entrepreneurship initiatives Target fulfilment terial in collaboration with partners through the Clas Ohlson Foundation, training for young people and crisis management Carbon emissions from own operations have reduced 46 per cent Target fulfilment Target fulfilment Energy optimisation 19 per cent. Target fulfilment Optimisation of the transportation flow – partTwo reported supplier deviations during the • In conjunction with the Convention on the nerships with MatHem, Kolonial.no and Wolt. As part of our plastics strategy, 800,000 year leading to dismissals from Clas Rights of the Child becoming Swedish law, plastic packages have been removed on Ohlson. Partnerships discontinued. we launched our children’s rights plasters products that we purchase directly from our • Around 1,500 employees have completed the suppliers in Asia. “Safe Adults” training course CO2 emissions from transportation in rela• Support for the Facilitator Migrant Worker tion to our sales and energy consumption Center in Zhuhai whereby 6,000 children per m2 in store Proportion of recyclable new could participate in after-school activities packaging, % • 1,500 migrant-worker parents in our supply chain took part in the remote training course 115 2.5 on parenting 92 2.0 Discontinued partnerships as result of 100% deviations Meaningful and trusted brand 69 1.5 Two 69% 46 1.0 23 0.5 0 0 Proportion of employees who agree that Clas 17/18 18/19 19/20 Ohlson works in a trusted manner on sustainability. Energy consumption per m2 in store CO2 emissions from transportation in relation to sales. 16 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE U N I QU E C USTO MER O FFER city Un pli iqu si m e Smartness an er offer stom d cu Ou cu tsta n din g e Unique sto m c e r s e r vi customer offer Clas Ohlson offers smart, simple and practical solutions that make everyday life at home a little easier. For more lazy days in the garden. With the purchase of any of our robotic lawn mowers, we offer installation in the customer’s garden. 17 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE U N I QU E C USTO MER O FFER In addition to the prevailing uncertainty surrounding the lasting effects of COVID-19, competition is global. Customer purchasing The new product range patterns are changing and industry consolidation is increasing. The for kid’s bedrooms offers first building block of our strategy – a unique customer offer – is to smart and tasteful ormeet people’s different needs in the home. Be it smart solutions for ganising and decorating the home office, organising your wardrobe or entertaining the kids. solutions for little ones We adapt our offering so that each store can meet the needs of its at home that also inspire target audience. That’s why the stores in Löddeköpinge and Trondcreativity and play for both heim will have different assortments. At the same time, all of our children and adults. As a products are available online. complement, Clas Ohlson is also launching a new seTo help and inspire customers to improve everyday life at home, ries of FSC labelled woodwe have a broad selection of smart and sustainable products. We en toys designed in-house. analyse trends and changes in consumer patterns to continuously adapt and develop our offering to meet customer needs and preferences, and to suit different local markets and locations. In addition to an attractive product range, we provide our customers with good advice and tips through our knowledgeable employees in our stores and in customer service centres. For those customers who would also like us to solve the practical side such as installation, repair or other services for a simpler everyday life, then we can fix that for them as well. We often talk about our offering as a pyramid, with the product range at the Full service base. Above that base Guidance we offer guidance, and up at the top there are Products supplementary services. 18 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE UNIQ U E CUST OM ER OF FER Smart products and services Clas Ohlson developed its own model for assessing products for a more sustainable lifestyle. Our Smart for a more sustainable lifestyle Plug helps customers manage and cut down energy waste at home through their smartphone. Clas Ohlson offers products and services that with toys and storage that inspire and help make everyday life easier, with high demands families keep children’s rooms neat and tidy. placed on function, price, quality, product safety and sustainability. Enabling a more sustainaIn November 2018, Clas Ohlson launched ble everyday life is our greatest opportunity to Clas Fix it DIY service in Stockholm. Based in create a positive sustainable impact. Actively a home store, Clas Fix it receives assignments striving to offer more products that contribute to visit customers who need help with jobs that to a more sustainable lifestyle is therefore a are a bit too small for professional handiwork priority as we develop our product range. This but a little too difficult or daunting for customis also something that we know our customers ers to do themselves. They could be small are requesting, and we are convinced that it will electric or plumbing jobs, or installing a shelf or have an increasingly significant impact on pura robotic lawn mower. The service is booked chase decisions in the future. through an app or in the store and is currently available in Stockholm and Uppsala. Clas Fix Clas Ohlson has a broad product offering in the it has received a very positive reception from categories of Hardware, Electrical, Multimedia, customers and a total of over 7,000 different Home and Leisure. The assortment includes jobs were carried out in the Stockholm region both proprietary brands and other well-known in 2019. The planned expansion will continue brands. In addition, we offer spare parts and when conditions are easer to predict. In addiaccessories that prolong the service life of tion to Clas Fix it, Clas Ohlson offers a number products. About 12 per cent of last year’s prodof other services such as tool hire, installing uct range has been replaced, and our customrobotic lawn mowers and storage solutions. ers see new products every week in our stores and online. It should be easy to find the right product for your needs, but we also want to inspire customers to discover new solutions and SHARE OF OUR a more sustainable lifestyle. We are also workPROPRIETARY BRANDS ing to continually develop our product range 35% AS A PROPORTION OF under our proprietary brands. In 2020, Clas OUR TOTAL SALES Ohlson launched a new kid’s bedroom range 19 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE U N I QU E C USTO MER O FFER Responsible purchasing Before we enter into a partnership with a new supplier in a high-risk country, we conduct an audit to check compliance with our Code of Conduct as regards Both we and our customers place strict dethe financial year was due to COVID-19 and the Country of origin working conditions, human rights and the environment. mands on function and quality, as well as price, factories were closed for some time. During the 1% and on respect for people and the environfinancial year, 60 of our suppliers were audited ment throughout the supply chain. Integrating externally through Sedex. The Sedex partner23% sustainability and responsible purchasing is a ship enables increased efficiency and transparfundamental part of quality assurance in the ency in our supply chain, which allows us to 69% production and purchasing processes. Prodconcentrate our resources on high-risk areas. 7% ucts that carry our proprietary brands, or which are unbranded, are bought directly from the Training and increased transparency in the manufacturing plants or through agents in Eusupply chain rope and Asia. Clas Ohlson buys products from During the year, we continued our training Asia approximately 670 suppliers in Europe and diproject with Quizrr, a digital tool for training in rectly from about 690 manufacturers in Asia via working conditions as well as health and safety, Sweden its office in Shanghai. We invest in close, longamong our suppliers in China. By using measRest of Europe term relationships with our suppliers and have urability and transparency in the supply chain, built a strong supplier network over time. This we train workers and managers at all levels Other enables us to reduce our purchasing costs and about their rights and responsibilities. This way allows us to exert more influence over prodwe can create opportunities for long-term profuct design, quality and price, but also leads to greater delivery reliability and speed. We continually review our existing purchasing markets and evaluate new ones. 69 % O F OUR PR O DUCTS O R IGINATE IN AS IA Before we enter into a partnership with a new supplier in a high-risk country, we conduct an audit to check compliance with our Code of Conduct as regards working conditions, huitability while contributing to positive change man rights and the environment. This applies to and improved working conditions in the supply all new suppliers. We also conduct an on-site chain. Due to production changes in connectechnical review of the supplier’s conditions and tion with COVID-19, we are seeing a marked ability to deliver in line with our quality requireincrease in the number of training courses at ments. We are also on site before each delivery our plants. A total of over 4,800 employees to conduct quality checks in line with an estabhave been trained in almost 20,000 courses. lished procedure. We have internal auditors in Since early 2016, over 10,000 employees have China who conduct both announced and unanbeen trained in just over 32,000 courses. nounced audits. The decrease in audits during 20 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE UNIQ U E CUST OM ER OF FER Thorough quality control generates results Clas Ohlson’s assortment includes over 15,000 Insjön before they reach store shelves. products. Only one single product has been Each product is tested based on its area recalled in eight years. This is largely due to the of use in several mini workshops, divided testing labs in Insjön and Shanghai. Everything into product areas. One team of product techHenrik Alfredsson, that is imported under a proprietary brand nicians tests and disassembles each product head of product quality: passes through quality control and the test lab to inspect its components. We do not place “We take our responsibility in Insjön. orders until the technicians have deemed the seriously – it’s not easy being product to be up to standard, and until we thorough, but it’s worth it. We Both we and our customers place strict dehave checked that the product fulfils Clas stop all products that aren’t up mands on quality. We also strive to offer prodOhlson’s requirements – including applicato standard.” ucts that support a more sustainable lifestyle. ble legal requirements – and that the supplier Sustainability and quality are constant focal complies with our Code of Conduct. points at Clas Ohlson and the product range is an important part of our sustainability agenda. Continuous monitoring is an important part of our quality work and we consistently monitor There are many steps in the process from enclaims statistics and customer assessments suring that subcontractor plants in China meet to continue developing and improving the our safety, chemical content and quality reentire product range. We also actively work on quirements, to controls in our testing labs and the types of chemicals we use, and we have external, third-party labs. The foundation of all imposed stricter requirements than those set testing is to evaluate how the product will be by legislation for products used by children received by customers. Products are tested and products that come into contact with skin at Clas Ohlson’s testing labs in Shanghai and or food. KEEP In cooperation with 14 companies and organisations, we are developing a tracking system for electric and electronic products. Under this framework we develEach product is tested based oped a battery policy and are continuing to work on a on its area of use in several strategy for batteries in our products. mini workshops. 21 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE U N I QU E C USTO MER O FFER THEME plastic and packaging Plastic is a material with many advantages, ing. During the year, we particularly concentratincluding ease of transportation and wide range ed on eliminating unnecessary plastic bags. To of use. We are intent on using the right kind of make this easier, we created a new digital funcplastic the right way, and on designing prodtion that store employees can use to directly ucts so that plastic can be recycled. Last year, give us tips on areas for improvement. The proClas Ohlson adopted a strategy for phasing out ject began in February 2019 and ended in Deplastic, which means that by 2020 we will stop cember 2019. Thanks to the tips we collected, selling single-use plastic items, which is earlier we managed to eliminate 800,000 plastic bags than what the law requires. We have, for examafter a constructive dialogue with our suppliers. ple, stopped selling plastic straws and replaced them with metal alternatives. Single-use plastic items will be removed from our workplaces by F EWER PL AS TIC BAGS April 2021, including in staff rooms in stores, 800,000 US ING TIPS F R O M distribution centres in Insjön and at our offices. S TO R E EMPL O YEES Smarter, more sustainable packaging We routinely update the packaging requirePlastic bags in stores ments for our suppliers. One of the requireClas Ohlson plastic bags are made of 100 ments is that packaging has to be separable per cent recycled plastic. During the year, we and recyclable. We therefore avoid coloured switched from sugar cane bioplastic to replastics and printing on plastic packaging, cycled plastic. We have a partnership with Recycled hotel linnen since this makes them less recyclable. We also PantaPå, which means that our bags can be becomes cloth bags set demands on the choice of materials and scanned at a recycling station, and customers In May 2020, Clas Ohlson design and we strive to balance the amount then receive a rebate coupon for select suslaunched a sustainable, affordable of packaging material used with the need to tainable products when they recycle our plastic alternative to plastic bags. These protect products during transportation. We are bags. bags are made from hotel linnen currently developing a design and packaging that would have otherwise gone to strategy that intensifies the focus on reparability Several reusable options are available for cuslandfill. The result is sustainable and separability both in design and in strategy. tomers who prefer to avoid single-use items bags that can carry up to 14 kg entirely. The Compact reusable shopping bag is and can be washed at 40 degrees Our store employees are affected to a great made from recycled PET and in May 2020 we Celsius, in addition to saving both extent by the packaging that comes into our started offering cloth bags made from recycled the environment and natural restores on a daily basis, and they are heavily hotel linnen. sources by reducing the need for involved in minimising our impact from packagnew textiles. 22 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE U N I QU E C USTO MER O FFER Our products and services Multimedia Electrical Our Multimedia range uses Clas Ohlson has many simple and smart solutions smart, safe and enerto connect networks, music, gy-efficient solutions films, printouts and much for an electrical-smart more. Large parts of the home or office. Enerrange are replaced frequentgy-efficient and trendy ly due to new needs and the designs in armatures rapid pace of technological and lighting sources. advances, but we also supClas Fix it In this category we ofply products from older generations of technology. Exibel fer products to transand Clas Ohlson are our proprietary brands in the MultiYou can solve your everyday problems quickly, easily and pricemit, charge, monitor, media category. worthy with the Clas Fix it DIY service! We can help you with genmeasure, light, heat, eral maintenance, installation and assembly, IT and smart homes, link, install, drive and electricity, outdoor and plumbing jobs. Since April 2020, the serventilate. Our proprietary brands in this category are vice has also been available as a video call using a smartphone. Cotech and Northlight. Leisure The Leisure category contains products for outdoor living, the garden, sports and exercise, travel and games. CarefulHome ly selected products contribute to active leisure for children and adults, both outdoor and indoor, all year round. Cocraft We have thousands of affordable products that make everyday life easier Hardware and Asaklitt are Clas Ohlson’s proprietary brands in this and more enjoyable. The product range includes products for the kitchen, category. With the special broom cupboard, wardrobe, laundry room and bathroom. Large parts of In the Hardware category, we sell tools, fittings and macampaign on a kid’s bedthe range are changed each year to follow prevailing trends. We offer our terials that make it easier and more enjoyable to renoroom range, Clas Ohlson the proprietary brands Coline and Clas Ohlson in the Home category. vate, build, paint and repair. We focus on smaller proalso launched a new series jects. We have the tools to get the job done, the paint to of FSC labelled wooden In 2020, Clas Ohlson launched a new kid’s bedroom range with inspirapaint with and everything else needed to renovate and toys designed in-house. We tional storage that helps families keep children’s rooms neat and tidy. The make home repairs. Cocraft, Capere and Clas Ohlson can help install perimeter range offers smart and tasteful solutions for helping little ones organise, are our proprietary brands in this category. A selection of wires in gardens with the decorate and play at home. tools are also available for hire in more and more stores. purchase of any of our robotic lawn mowers. 23 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O U T S TANDING CUSTO MER SER VICE city Un pli iqu si m e Smartness an er offer stom d cu Outstanding Ou cu tsta n din g e customer sto m c e r s e r vi service Giving customers greater accessibility to Clas Ohlson’s offering is a central part of our strategy. A successful partnership with MatHem.se has been in place since 2017, and we have also had a partnership with Kolonial.no, the Norwegian equivalent, since September 2019. Assorted Clas Ohlson products are available from these companies’ websites, and sales through these channels in each market are now on par with those in some of our largest physical stores. 24 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O U T S TANDING CUSTO MER SER VICE To meet our customers’ requirements for convenience and service, we are continuing to develop the combination of stores in prime locations, smart services, online shopping in various platforms and many delivery options. The partnerships with MatHem in Sweden, Kolonial.no in Norway and Wolt in Finland are key components in this. We have established a partnership with Amazon for online shopping outside the Nordic countries. A personal meeting built on the Clas Ohlson spirit A good customer experience is fundamental to creating satisfied return customers. We want to be proactive, meeting our customers with commitment and knowledge. Clas Ohlson offers accessibility and service through a combination of various sales channels. Our aim is to manage all sales channels as one whole, minimising differences between physical and digital stores. Every part of our service concept is based on the passion and skills of our co-workers and is fundamental to the corporate culture that we call the Clas Ohlson spirit. A spirit that has existed in the company ever since it was founded in 1918. For more information, refer to pages 11 and 30. 2.8 MIL L ION L O YAL CL AS MEMBER S CL UB Club Clas is our loyalty club, with nearly 2.8 million members. Membership comes with club discounts, 3 per cent return in bonus cheques on everything you purchase, open purchase for 365 days, bonus days and club days in many locations as well as the option to We welcomed close have your receipts stored electronically. By studying purchase histo 75 million visitors tories, we are able to present more relevant offers to each individual to our stores in the customer. Stores with many club members have a higher average 2019/20 financial ticket value and a higher conversion rate. Club Clas is currently availyear. able in Sweden and Finland, with plans to make it available in Norway. 25 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O U T S TANDING CUSTO MER SER VICE Accessible and climate-smart store network The large growth in the industry is now taking It should be easy for customers to find their ments include LED lighting, movement detecplace online, but we can see that stores will way around, and we place great importance on tors, and PVC-free floors and cabling as well as continue to play an important role going forproduct display and navigation to save time for eco mode for escalators. ward. Our store network in the Nordic counboth customers and employees. tries is our most important sales channel and profitable stores are therefore a prerequisite for Clas Ohlson became the second chain in the our goal of sustainable profitable growth. Apart world to host Google’s shop-in-shop concept from serving as a key sales channel, the stores when it opened in our Drottninggatan store in 46% provide a customer experience, a service offerStockholm in November 2019. Together, Clas Of our stores have energying and the option of collecting products orOhlson and Google can help customers simefficient LED lighting dered online using Click & Collect. plify their everyday lives by making the smart home more easily accessible and simpler to Continuous review of locations and format achieve. We need to ensure that our stores are located 100 kWh/sqm where our customers want us to be, with the With the new shop-in-shop concept, Energy consumption in our right format and the right balance between cost Google and Clas Ohlson aim to demonstores, which continues to and income per square metre. As a result, we strate to customers that it is possible to decrease will adjust the number of stores and their focus start simplifying their everyday lives by more rapidly depending on how purchasing patusing smart products without any hassle. terns change. Some stores will expand, some 19% will reduce in size, some will close and some Reduced environmental impact Energy efficiency, with 2014 new stores will open. During the year we closed We strive to reduce the environmental impact as a base year In November, Google opened seven stores, moved three and opened three in of our stores through enhancements to energy a shop-in-shop in our store on locations where we believe we have a platform efficiency and by increasing the use of renewDrottninggatan in Stockholm, for profitable growth The continuous optimisaable energy sources. We place strict requiremaking us one of the first in tion of our store network and securing flexible ments on sustainability when we build new the world to offer this concept. lease terms will remain priorities in future. stores or renovate older ones. These requireTogether, Clas Ohlson and Google can help customers simplify their everyday lives by making the smart home more easily accessible and simpler to achieve. 26 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O UTSTA N DING CUST OM ER SER VICE Improved customer experience online Our e-commerce platform is an increasingly whether it is from a computer, mobile phone significant sales channel that also boosts visits or a tablet. The platform has contributed to a and sales in our stores. Customer demand is heavy increase in traffic. A significant advanincreasing more and more as customers have tage is that it is scalable, allowing for higher less time in their everyday lives and less cost-efficiency for continually updating the platpatience. Decisions need to be made quickly form as customer purchasing patterns change. and it should be easy to shop with Clas Another example of how we have previously Ohlson. The foundation of this is customer improved the online customer experience is convenience, and this applies to the entire by offering flexible payment options and more customer journey. delivery alternatives. An extensive upgrade of our e-commerce platWe have also been working intensively to creform was therefore carried out in the 2019/20 ate the right conditions for rapid and flexible financial year. The aim is to improve customflows of goods such as automating online er experience by offering a quicker and more shopping deliveries at our distribution centre. convenient shopping experience regardless of Read more on page 33. We are constantly upgrading our website in our endeavour to make the user experience effortless and fun. One exC LI C KS A RE N E E D E D Following a pilot project in the UK, online shopample of this is that we have created a new format for our product listings on mobile devices. Both of the formats T O B U Y SOM E T H I N G, ping outside of the Nordics has been transferred O NLY 4 C OM PA RE D TO 14 TWO now come with a “Add to shopping basket” function, allowing the customer to easily add products without needing to Amazon’s online shopping platform. to be redirected to the product page. YE A RS A GO 27 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE O UTSTA N DING CUST OM ER SER VICE Flexible and convenient delivery alternatives Regarding delivery alternatives, our customers financial year. The partnership makes it possiClas Ohlson presented an updated version of are demanding more flexible and individually ble for customers in central Helsinki to quickly the Clas Fix it service in April 2020. Using tailored solutions. Customers shopping online receive Clas Ohlson products delivered right to video calls, the user is able to receive procan choose to have the products sent to their their door. To begin with, customers in central fessional advice directly through their mobile homes or to a drop-off point, or pick them up Helsinki have been able to order selected Clas phone. The Clas Fix it service using video calls at a Clas Ohlson store. Click & Collect as a deOhlson products using Wolt’s popular app. The makes it possible for more people to solve their livery alternative — where customers can order products are then quickly delivered to the cusDIY issues themselves. The video call service is the products online and pick them up at a store tomers’ homes with the help of Wolt’s bicycle free for all Club Clas members. shortly afterwards — has become a popular delivery service. We have expanded this service delivery option. to more cities in Finland. In the wake of the accelerated spread of COVID-19 in the Nordics, we introduced a Customers shopping at a store can also choose Increased online shopping influences customdrive-in solution allowing the customer to reto order products from Clas Ohlson’s broader expectations of quickly receiving products ceive their order straight to their car outside of er product range online while still in the store delivered right to their door, which is why unthe store. and have them delivered to the store or to their derstanding and managing the environmenhomes. Home delivery in particular is increastal impact from various sales and distribution Customers order goods with our online shopingly in demand. For customers in Sweden’s channels is becoming increasingly important to ping service and can have them delivered larger cities, MatHem is an alternative. A selecus. We place strict demands on our distributors straight to the car outside one of our stores tion of Clas Ohlson’s product range is available for home deliveries, in order to offer more enviafter two hours. The primary aim is to offer a for sale at MatHem, and we see great potential ronmentally friendly options for our customers. safe shopping experience for everyone, and be for increasing sales volumes of consumables Through our partnerships with MatHem, Koloavailable to customers who for various reasons under our own brand via the MatHem platform. nial.no and Wolt, we can optimise the transporare unable to visit our stores. tation flow and reduce our emissions. We entered into a partnership with Kolonial. no, the largest online food retailer in Norway, in the autumn of 2019. The partnership, inspired New meeting places – the home, the Clas Ohlson now offers the option of ordering by the success of MatHem, was positively remobile phone and the drive-in products online and then having them delivceived from the very beginning. Roughly one in Through Clas Fix it, the home has also been ered straight to the car outside of our stores. ten deliveried food bags contains a Clas opened up as a meeting place in an entirely This is another new method of delivery for our Ohlson product. new way. Here, as in our other channels, we customers launched in the spring of 2020 in want to provide our customers with reliable our Nordic markets as a complement to Click Clas Ohlson and the food-tech company Wolt outstanding service. More information about & Collect, a service whereby customers can entered into a partnership in Finland during the Clas Fix it can be found on page 19. collect their online orders from stores. 28 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S M ARTNE SS A N D SIMPLIC IT Y city Un pli iq m er offer Smartness an stom d cu si ue Ou cu tsta n din g e Smartness sto m c e r s e r vi and simplicity Smartness and simplicity is part of Clas Ohlson’s strategy to strengthen Clas Ohlson’s long-term position in the market. With more automated guided vehicles, we can make the flow of goods at our distribution centre smoother, shorten lead times and create a safer workplace. 29 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S M ARTNE SS A N D SIMPLIC IT Y Firmly anchored in a strong corporate culture, we challenge ourselves to continually reassess our working methods and the way that we think. We invest in change, which includes the upskilling and an increasing degree of digital working methods that contribute to more efficiency, simplicity and sustainability throughout the entire supply chain. Award-winning customer service T H E Y E A R C L A S ­O H L S ­ O N­ Our Contact Centre in Insjön, Sweden, WAS F O UNDED WITH A which has 20 dedicated co-workers who 1 918 ­S P I R I T T H A T P U T S T H E handle approximately 500,000 customCUS TO MER F IR S T er meetings via telephone, e-mail, chat and Facebook on a yearly basis, won first place in the 2020 Brilliant Awards With corporate governance based on clear rules and a strong corin February 2020 in the category of best porate culture, we enhance the efficiency of our processes and incustomer service in retail. tegrate ethics, the environment and social issues into our strategic decisions and our way of working. At the core of our approach and our way of working to continually grow and achieve our goal of being considered a meaningful and trusted brand and company for our employees, our customers and other stakeholders, we have a strong corporate culture in place that we call the Clas Ohlson spirit. To ensure that this culture, which has been present in the company ever since it was founded in 1918, can be carried forward to new generations, we work actively to clarify and update the description of the Clas Ohlson spirit to reflect today’s conditions. All of our employees take part in this process. “Our corporate culture is just as vibrant and An organisation built on the Clas Ohlson spirit clear today as it was when Clas Ohlson himself Our success is created by all our unique employees, who see new worked at the company. We constantly see this opportunities and resolve challenges every day. Digitalisation drives in the many positive examples demonstrated by change throughout society, and retail is no exception. In order to our colleagues that we have all agreed on,” says meet changing customer behaviour, we must work on new ways of Marita Billström, who is one of the thousands of attaining a cost level that allows us to continue to grow in an inproud culture ambassadors with her 43 years in creasingly competitive market. the company. 30 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE SMA RTNE SS AND SIM PL ICIT Y We make use of digital robotics to assist Employees who want to grow with us rent and future needs. Clas Ohlson has been us in repetitive and time-craving tasks. Clas Ohlson is to be an attractive employer that highly successful in attracting the competences This frees up time for more advanced and can develop and retain competent and committhe company needs, and believes that many creative tasks. A robot could, for example, ted employees, while attracting new talent. talented people who have applied to Clas open and interpret an e-mail or access Ohlson are interested in being part of this joura database providing information that is When we recruit, we seek employees who want ney of change. The external image of Clas required before sending it via automatic to be a part of Clas Ohlson’s culture and who Ohlson as a good place to work, with a high e-mail to the correct recipient. This is want to grow with us. We offer stimulating opdegree of employee satisfaction, has been of possible with the help of Robotics Process portunities for personal and professional develthe utmost importance in our recruitment efAutomation (RPA). opment. We strive for increased diversity and forts. In the introduction process, all new emwe are sure that a variety of competencies and ployees receive a broad understanding of Clas backgrounds is incredibly important for creating Ohlson’s history and corporate culture, our an innovative, creative climate and profitable mission and our sustainability agenda. growth. Having a service mindset, commitment, a business-oriented approach and a willingness for constant improvement are important prereqapproximately E M PLOYE E S uisites to enjoy working with us. 4,500 I N FI VE C OU N TRI E S The right skills through development and recruitment We operate in a constantly changing business We endeavour to ensure that every workplace environment and we need to be constantly uphas employees with different backgrounds, to-date for the tasks ahead. Skills development skills and experience. Greater diversity boosts takes place through tailored, formal training creativity and innovation. This helps us to unand by facilitating the sharing of the skills that derstand and interact with our customers in the exist in the company. We focus on developing best possible way. We have a zero tolerance the skills in our products and services, as well policy for all forms of discrimination and haas improving our customer interaction in all rassment. All employees have the same rights, channels. We use career planning and internal opportunities and obligations. The recruitment development to ensure that the Clas Ohlson process for our stores was also updated to inspirit will live on. clude an extensive diversity perspective. There is also a need to add new expertise. We During the year, the proportion of emare focusing intensely on ensuring that the poployees with their background in a sitions in our new recruits address areas where country other than the one in which they we have a gap of skills to be prepared for curcurrently work increased to 8 per cent. 31 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S M ARTNE SS A N D SIMPLIC IT Y Leading in a complex world ees to be themselves and be able to use their to us to be able to offer a stimulating and Major organisational changes were carried out strengths in their daily work. The leadership healthy work environment, where employees including approximately 200 positions, primarily role is now more complex when faced with a enjoy physical and mental well-being, and feel at our head office and the distribution centre, to time of major change resulting in the need to a sense of trust, security and belonging. Clas create a more efficient and flexible organisation both reduce costs and upskill. This concerns Ohlson works actively and preventively to imwith the right skills mix that is better equipped handling the anxiety that has come about as a prove the company’s employee attendance, to capitalise on the opportunities offered by result of the risk of redundancy and motivating through initiatives such as leadership, work digitalisation, automation and the changed beand creating future confidence. Management environment and preventive healthcare. Read haviour of customers in the retail sector. applies a well-established forward-looking more on page 15. attitude. Clas Ohlson has also continued to scale back The target is that neither men nor its operations in the areas where we see there We have continued to work on making leadwomen will account for less than 40 is no intrinsic value in performing such duties ership development more accessible for our per cent of each individual professional ourselves. In those cases, we outsource the colleagues and have published 40 short traincategory. 35 (32) per cent of managers assignment or enter into a partnership with aning videos that are available through our onwere women during the financial year. other company. line-based teaching platform Clasroom. We also continued to rework our internal leaderAt the end of our financial year, conditions ship programme during the year, and the prochanged rapidly as the corona pandemic swept gramme that all of our managers are to underacross the Nordic countries and the world at go starting in the spring of 2020. As part of our large. National restrictions put in place to curb ongoing change process, we have offered sup75% the spread had a direct impact on Clas port to our employees in the form of coaching Ohlson. Even though all of our stores in the to prevent ill health and create the necessary Nordic countries remained open, this was conditions to manage ongoing changes in a in many cases with reduced opening hours. positive manner. O F OUR WOR K About 300 store employees were temporarily GR O UPS BEL IEVE laid off in April, due to shorter opening hours According to the most recent employee survey THAT THEY HAVE and fewer visitors. At the start of June, only conducted at the beginning of 2020, we see a A MANAGER WITH a small number of city stores and stores that positive trend within all areas that we measure. GO OD OR EXCEL have significant cross-border shopping have 69 per cent of our employees are committed or L ENT L EADER S HIP been affected. Furthermore, about 200 office highly committed and 75 per cent of our work employees had their working hours reduced groups consider themselves to have a manager until mid-June. The layoffs for this group were with good or excellent leadership. not extended and the assessment is that they not be resumed after the holiday period. Well-being at work more crucial than ever Employees who enjoy their work, are happy At Clas Ohlson, leadership involves leading the and committed, stay longer and are important culture and creating trust among our employambassadors for Clas Ohlson. It is important 32 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE SMA RTNE SS AND SIM PL ICIT Y Smart logistics with high delivery of reliability and lower environmental impact The distribution centre at Insjön (DC) is the hub cope with fast-growing online shopping and of our distribution network. All product delivensure the supply chain for our store network. eries are routed through here for repackaging The packing machine is an important element and further distribution to one of our stores, or in the transition from manual handling of online directly to customers. An efficient and sustainorders to quickly managing growing volumes. able flow of goods to and from the distribution During the financial year, automated solutions centre is one of our most important success were refined and new solutions implemented. factors. By the end of 2020, we expect to have around 30 automated guided vehicles in operation. The distribution centre in Insjön higher automation 24/7 To optimise usage of the distribution centre in D AYS OF T H E Insjön and to ensure rapid deliveries to customYE A R T H AT D C I N ers, the distribution centre has been in opera365 I N S J Ö N I S F U L LY tion seven days a week since January 2019. OPE RAT I ON A L We are making substantial investments to enhance the efficiency of distribution operations. These investments are essential for achieving Good planning allows for more sustainable our ambitions of doubling online sales every transportation other year. Clas Ohlson’s customers shop onWe strive to take responsibility for reducing the line the most at the weekend, which is why use of air freight, increasing deliveries by train operations at the distribution centre are organand always choosing transport companies that ised so that products can be packed and start have the same sustainability agenda as Clas their journey to end customers as quickly as Ohlson. For the third year in a row, we have possible. At the same time, delivery reliability reduced emissions in relation to our net sales. is a central part of maintaining a high level of We are very proud of the work that has been service, which is facilitated by efficient logistics carried out in planning our purchasing from and distribution. Asia given that fewer flights have an immediate effect on costs and carbon emissions. Time saver! The new Auto Order system Increased automation of operations in the dishelps make sure that the right product can tribution centre is a high-priority measure. AuEmissions from flights have reduced 68 per be found at the right price and in the right tomated guided vehicles and packing machines cent over the last three years. Even though time in the way that the customer wants. increase efficiency, scalability and flexibility to we have reduced our transport emissions as a 33 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE S M ARTNE SS A N D SIMPLIC IT Y whole, they have risen in the Nordic countries. frastructure to quickly fulfil our customers’ new As such, we are now tightening requirements demands. The distribution centre on fossil-free transportation for our suppliers. In by the numbers the next financial year, linehaul from the distriStores with a broader role and a tailored bution centre in Insjön, Sweden to the terminals product range in Sweden and Norway will be fossil free. For The stores play a central role in Clas Ohlson’s 77,000 more information about our emissions, refer to entire logistics system. Our five feeder stores square metres page 104. are examples of this. Located in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Helsinki and Oslo, these Smart freight consolidation at all stages stores act as smaller warehouses where we During the past year, Clas Ohlson has worked can select and pack goods ready for quick de290,000 intensively to consolidate shipments from Chilivery to the customer. With the launch of Click pallets delivered to stores na. All shipments from a supplier who does & Collect and drive-in solutions for our customannually not fill an entire container are taken to one of ers who shop online, the stores are an importthe five consolidation terminals in use in China. ant part of our growing online shopping busiThese shipments are consolidated there with ness, which also drives business in our stores 630,000 others from our other suppliers. We do this to before and after online purchases are made. items delivered per year optimise the fill rate in the containers, but also to be able to use the larger type of container We now have the right system support in place (40ft High Cube container) as much as posto customise our offering in accordance with 400,000 sible. This container can then be used other local conditions for each store. Within the frame goods and by other exporters in Insjön, which of our strategic Category Reset initiative, we pallet and storage spaces means that we can decrease transportation of have methodically and using data evaluated and empty containers back to the harbour in optimised our product range based on customGothenburg. er requirements and product profitability. After having conducted tests in a smaller number of Delivering online orders home to customers stores, we began rolling out the initiative in our on the same day or the day after an order is entire store network during the year. This has replaced in as efficient and sustainable way as sulted in our customer offering becoming more possible is facilitated through partnerships with relevant for each channel and the optimisation of MatHem in Sweden and Kolonial.no in Norway. the value of inventories for each season. We have also entered into a partnership with Wolt in Finland, and have established a partnership with Budbee, Postnord and Porterbuddy. L OWER CAR BON Partnerships like these are examples of how we are finding new ways to help customers and 4 6% EMIS S IONS F R O M Optimising logistics. Our distribution centre O UR O PER ATIONS operates 24 hours a day, every day of the also to make use of existing expertise and inyear to enable quicker delivery to customers. 34 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Contents Directors’ Report 36 Note 20 Financial instruments 80 Risks and uncertainties 41 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 81 Chairman’s letter 46 Note 22 Other provisions 81 Corporate governance 47 Note 23 Inter-Group transactions 81 Board of Directors 52 Note 24 Participations in Group companies 81 Group management 54 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets 82 Note 26 Appropriations 82 Consolidated financial statements 57 Note 27 Cash and bank balances 82 Parent Company financial statements 61 Note 28 Untaxed reserves 82 Note 29 Pledged assets 82 Notes Note 30 Leases 82 Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies 65 Note 31 Related-party transactions 83 Note 2 Financial risks 70 Note 32 Average number of employees 83 Note 3 Other operating income and expenses 72 Note 33 Segment reporting 83 Note 4 Depreciation 72 Note 34 Events after the end of the period 83 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost 72 Note 35 Change in accounting principle IFRS 16 84 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits 73 Note 7 Remuneration to auditors 76 Certification of the Annual Report 85 Note 8 Financial income and expenses 76 Auditor’s report 86 Note 9 Income tax 76 Quarterly results 89 Note 10 Earnings per share 77 Key ratio definitions 89 Note 11 Dividend per share 77 Glossary 90 Note 12 Non-current assets 77 Alternative performance measures 91 Note 13 Inventories 78 Ten-year overview 94 Note 14 Accounts receivable 78 Sustainability report 96 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 78 Store overview 113 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 78 History 114 Note 17 Forward contracts 79 The Clas Ohlson share 115 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity 79 Information to shareholders 118 Note 19 Pension obligations 79 35 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Directors’ Operations Clas Ohlson works to help and inspire people to imA new partnership with Kolonial.no, Norway’s largest Report prove their everyday lives by offering smart, simple, online food retailer, began at the start of September. Inpractical solutions at attractive prices. Our customcreasing customer access to Clas Ohlson’s offering is a er offering comprises a base of hardware, electrical, central part of the company’s strategy. The partnerships multimedia, home and leisure products as well as a with MatHem in Sweden and Kolonial.no in Norway are supplementary offering of services that simplify cuskey components in this work that is continuously betomers’ daily lives at home. During the year, operations ing developed. Clas Ohlson’s product range was made were conducted in Sweden, Norway, Finland, the UK available on Amazon in the UK during the financial year. and Germany via stores and online shopping, and via The company is continuing to develop the combinaThe Board of Directors and Chief Executive purchase offices in China. Two stores in the UK were tion of stores in prime locations, smart services, online closed in the 2019/20 financial year as part of the decishopping in various platforms and many delivery opOfficer of Clas Ohlson AB (publ), with regission to discontinue the store network outside the Nortions. dics. tered office and head office in Insjön, in the Clas Ohlson invested an additional 27 MSEK in MatHem The product range includes approximately 15,000 ari Sverige AB during the year, as part of the new share Municipality of Leksand, Sweden, hereby ticles that are purchased from a large number of supissue to retain the company’s rights under the sharepliers in some 30 countries. The products are delivered holders’ agreement. The new share issue that took present the annual accounts for the finanto the distribution centre in Insjön, Sweden, and from place totalled about 500 MSEK. there distributed via stores, or via mail order/Internet cial year 1 May 2019 to 30 April 2020. Undirectly to the customers. Clas Ohlson’s ongoing review Clas Ohlson took measures in the fourth quarter to of the store network takes into consideration the market tackle the consequences of the corona pandemic. less otherwise stated, the figures relate to conditions, new customer behaviour patterns, demand About 300 store employees were temporarily laid off in projections and contracts signed with property owners. April, due to shorter opening hours and fewer visitors. the Group. Figures in parenthesis pertain to Geographic location, testing new store concepts and In the beginning of June, only a small number of city store sizes are continuously assessed and reviewed. stores and stores that have significant cross-border the preceding year. All figures are stated in The number of stores at the end of the financial year shopping were affected. Furthermore, about 200 office was 228, of which 97 were in Sweden, 90 in Norway, employees had their working hours reduced between millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) unless 40 in Finland and one in the UK. The number of conApril and mid-June. The assessment is that the layoffs tracted forthcoming store openings amounted to two for this group will not need to be extended or resumed otherwise stated. stores. after the holiday period. Significant events during the financial year The CO100+ action programme completed During the financial year, the store network was reduced About 20 projects were carried out in the past two fiby a net four stores compared with the year-earlier penancial years 2018/19 and 2019/20 under the CO100+ riod (an increase of three) – a reduction of two stores in action programme to achieve established growth and Finland and two in the UK. profitability targets. During this period, 1-2 per cent of 36 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE D IRE CTO RS’ REPORT the underlying operating margin was invested in activities to drive sales growth and generate cost savings. As The gross margin was 39.8 per cent (39.8). During the part of this work, we both modernised and enhanced Sales were distributed as follows: financial year, the gross margin was positively impacted Distribution of sales increase the efficiency of our work methods by establishing a by effects from currency hedging (NOK) from currency Sales area (MSEK)  solid platform in the business based on both new and forwards and exchange-rate effects related to delays in Comparable units in local currency 1% existing skills and significantly higher digital expertise. inventory, an improved product mix and lower sourcing Percentage New stores -1% Percentage change, costs. This was offset by a stronger purchasing currenExchange-rate effects 0% The growth initiatives that were carried out focused on Countries 2019/20 2018/19 change local currency cy (USD) and a weaker sales currency (NOK). Total 0% increasing sales per square metre, increasing sales per Sweden 3,991 3,853 4 4 customer and doubling online sales every other year. Norway 3,590 3,571 1 3 The share of selling expenses declined 2.4 percentage Online sales increased by 84 per cent and sales per Finland 1,086 1,064 2 -1 Earnings for the financial year were affected by non-repoints to 31.1 per cent (33.5). Excluding the effect of Nordics 8,666 8,489 2 3 square metre and per customer have risen. curring costs and costs linked to the CO100+ action IFRS 16 of 1.0 percentage point, the share declined by Outside the Nordics* 92 284 -68 -69 programme totalling approximately 127 MSEK (405). 1.4 percentage points. The share of selling expenses was Cost-saving measures corresponding to 225-250 Total 8,758 8,772 0 0 impacted by lower expenses in the UK and Germany. MSEK have now been implemented. Of which, online 542 432 25 26 • Indirect spend (70-75 MSEK) sales • Direct spend (110-120 MSEK) *Affected by store closures in the UK and Germany. • Implementation of a more effective organisation and logistics (45-55 MSEK) Sales in stores/online Net sales per country Gross margin, % Share of selling expenses, % Certain measures have gradually generated results over the two-year period. The remaining earnings effect of 6% 1% about 150-160 MSEK will be realised in the 2020/21 50 50 financial year. Combined with a continuing focus on 12% 45 39.8 45 online growth and sales per square metre and per cus40.0 39.8 40 40 tomer, this will help us achieve our long-term profitability 33.5 31.1 target of an operating margin of 6-8 per cent. 35 35 46% 31.4 30 30 Sales and profits 41% 25 25 94% Sales in the Nordics increased 2 per cent to 8,666 20 20 MSEK (8,489). The organic increase in the Nordics was 3 per cent year-on-year. Total sales and organic growth 15 15 were unchanged at 8,758 MSEK (8,772). Sales in comOnline Store Sweden Finland 10 10 parable units and local currency increased 1 per cent. 5 5 Norway Outside the Nordics 0 0 Online sales increased 25 per cent to 542 MSEK (432). 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 37 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE D IRE CTO RS’ REPORT 9.03, respectively, in the year-earlier period. Currency ity and continued upgrading of the business model. stock turnover rate at the distribution centre was 5.6 Operating profit amounted to 549 MSEK (94). IFRS 16 hedging was undertaken in USD and NOK. The compaIt is important to be well prepared for the future with the times (5.9). At the end of the period, the value of invenhad a positive effect of 95 MSEK on operating profit, ny’s policy is to hedge 50 per cent of the expected flow road ahead based on: offering an even more relevant tories was 1,811 MSEK (1,987). The lower level was resulting in operating profit of 454 MSEK excluding this in each currency continuously, with threeto nine-month range of products, stores in the right locations, attracmainly due to strict inventory control. effect. Underlying operating profit amounted to 581 maturities. The prevailing uncertainty related to corona tive online shopping on our own and other companies’ MSEK (497). The operating margin was 6.3 per cent and other factors have impacted purchasing and sales platforms, flexible delivery options and a strong service The Group’s net debt at the end of the period, meaning (1.1). IFRS 16 had a positive effect on operating margin currencies. Clas Ohlson has now returned to its normal offering. interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivaof 1.1 percentage points. currency hedging policy after a temporary period of aslents, amounted to 2,183 MSEK (178). Net debt in resessing currency hedges on a case-by-case basis. Financing and liquidity lation to EBITDA amounted to 1.8 times. Excluding the Profit after financial items amounted to 482 MSEK (92). Cash flow from operating activities for the financial year effect of IFRS 16, net debt in relation to EBITDA to 0.0 IFRS 16 had a positive impact of 31 MSEK on profit after Prospects for the next financial year amounted to 1,284 MSEK (312). Cash flow for the peritimes, which is in accordance with our financial framefinancial items and a positive impact of 24 MSEK on profThe macroeconomic climate and the impact on cusod after investing and financing activities was -20 MSEK work (below 2.0 times). Credits granted and loan comit after tax. Depreciation for the period amounted to 687 tomer behaviour are the greatest uncertainty factors for (-11). Excluding the effect of IFRS 16, cash flow from mitments amounted to 1,000 MSEK, of which 67 MSEK MSEK (237), of which 472 MSEK pertained to depreciathe business related to coronavirus. Fluctuations in the operating activities amounted to 817 MSEK and cash had been utilised at the end of the period. The compation of right-of-use assets in accordance with IFRS 16. currency market also have an effect. Furthermore, we flow from financing activities to -606 MSEK. ny’s financial position remains strong. The equity/assets must add that the retail sector is already undergoing exratio was 31 per cent (49). Excluding the effect of IFRS Spot exchange rates for key currencies averaged 1.05 tensive change. The underlying structural change in the The average 12-month value of inventories was 1,968 16, the equity/assets ratio amounted to 51 per cent. for NOK and 9.60 for USD, compared with 1.08 and retail sector will require a great deal of flexibility, sensitivMSEK (2,049). Over a rolling 12-month period, the Investments Investments during the financial year amounted to 231 Operating margin, % Operating profit, MSEK Sales, MSEK MSEK (211). Of this amount, investments in new or refurbished stores accounted for 42 MSEK (51). Investments in IT systems for the financial year amounted to 600 549 10,000 8 8,758 143 MSEK (105). A follow-up investment of 27 MSEK 8,772 6.3 468 8,211 7 was made in MatHem in the fourth quarter to enable 500 8,000 5.7 MatHem’s expansion and retain Clas Ohlson’s rights 6 under the shareholders’ agreement. 400 5 6,000 The Share and share capital 300 4 Clas Ohlson series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stock3,5* 4,000 3 holm. The share capital totals 82 MSEK, comprising 200 5,760,000 series A shares and 59,840,000 series B 2 shares, each with a quotient value of 1.25. Each series A 94 2,000 100 share carries ten votes, while each series B share carries 1 one vote. All shares carry equal rights to payment of div0 0 0 idends. Holders of series A shares can request that their 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 A shares be converted to series B shares. The share * Excluding non-recurring cost for the capital is unchanged compared with the preceding year. closure of the store network outside the Nordic countries. 38 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE D IRE CTO RS’ REPORT Annual General Meeting (AGM). The principles are procreation. Clearly defined performance targets are to be On 30 April 2020, the company had a total of 38,504 Environmental impact posed to be updated accordingly with changes in ABL. decided annually by the Board or by individuals elected shareholders, according to the register of shareholders The company has a duty of notification with respect to The general principles of remuneration of senior execuby the Board. The performance targets may be financial, maintained by Euroclear Sweden, compared with 42,336 activities relating to the temporary storage of electronic tives are to be based on the position held, individual peroperative or individual and related to the business plan. on 30 April 2019. The ten largest shareholders at that waste. This duty of notification applies to any Swedish formance, the Group’s financial results and the remuneratime held 57 per cent of the capital and 76 per cent of municipality in which Clas Ohlson has a store. The comtion being competitive in the country of employment. The Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, the votes For a summary, see page 117. pany does not otherwise have any operations for which combined remuneration of senior executives is to consist which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum there is a duty of notification or for which it is mandatory of basic salary, variable salary in the form of a short-term remuneration levels from the beginning. Insofar as perThe Articles of Association contains no post-sale purto obtain a permit under the Environmental Code. With incentive based on annual performance objectives, longformance does not match the lowest performance level, chase rights clause or other restrictions for the transregard to electrical and electronic waste, the company term incentives based on multi-year performance, penno STI will be paid. STIs depend on the position held ferability of series B shares. Apart from authorisation cooperates with the Elkretsen organisation in Sweden, sion and other benefits. In addition, notice of termination and may not exceed 50 per cent of salary if the ceiling is pertaining to the repurchase of shares stated on page which is the joint company owned by the electrical indusand severance pay are subject to terms and conditions. achieved, which also represents the maximum outcome 76, there are no other circumstances of the kinds the try for waste disposal. The company is affiliated to the of STI. STI remuneration is also conditional upon the percompany is obligated to disclose under the provisions recycling organisation REPA. In Norway, the company is Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of formance on which earnings are based being sustainable of Chapter 6, Section 2a (4-11) of the Annual Accounts affiliated to the recycling organisations RENAS, Batterireremuneration, focusing on payments based on perforover time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to reclaim such Act. The number of registered shares is 65,600,000, untur and Grønt Punkt. In Finland, there is equivalent coopmance. The objective is that the fixed annual basic salremuneration that was paid due to information that later changed compared with the preceding year. At 30 April eration with Serty, in the UK with Valpak and in Germany ary will be on par with or around that of the competitive turned out to be obviously erroneous. 2020, the company held 2,262,553 shares (2,382,206) with Der Grüne Punkt. market. When Clas Ohlson achieves or exceeds the escorresponding to 3 per cent (4) of the total number of tablished performance objectives, the total remuneration Long-term incentive, LTI registered shares. At the end of the period, the numClas Ohlson’s impact on the environment is mainly relatis to be on par with or around the upper quartile of the The objective of LTI programmes is to generate condiber of shares outstanding, net after buyback, was ed to manufacturing of goods, transportation and sales. competitive market. This means that variable remunerations for retaining and recruiting competent employees to 63,337,447 (63,217,794). The entire LTI 2019 undertakFor this reason, improving transportation efficiency, enertion may comprise a significant portion of the total remuthe Group. The programmes were designed to encouring has been secured by using shares that were bought gy efficiency in stores and helping customers to live more neration. age participants to become shareholders in the compaback to secure previous LTI plans where the need has sustainably are focus areas for the entire Group. We have ny, which is expected to have a positive impact on their been recalculated (no buy-back in the preceding year). reported our emissions according to the GHG Protocol of Basic salary long-term work performance. Connecting participants’ the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2015 and improved The basic salary shall constitute the basis for total remurewards to the company’s profit and value development Employees our score from C to B. We have reported under Scope 1 neration. The salary is to be related to the relevant market will continue to promote company loyalty and thus susThe average number of employees in the Group was apand 2 (our own operations) and parts of Scope 3 (transand reflect the extent of the responsibilities included in tainable value growth in the company. proximately 4,500; recalculated to full-time equivalents, portation and business travel). We reduced our GHG the position. The development of basic salary is to dethis corresponds to an average of 2,987 (3,099). Further emissions under Scope 1 and 2 by slightly more than 46 pend on how well work is performed and how well the Long-term incentive plans that entitle employees to acinformation about employees is found in Notes 6 and 32 per cent during the financial year. This year, Clas Ohlson employee develops his/her expertise to assume future quire share are subject to AGM approval. The perforin the Annual Report. embarked on its journey to quantify other GHG emissions work assignments involving greater responsibility. The mance period for LTI 2017, LTI 2018 and LTI 2019 were (Scope 3) in its value chain. basic salary is to be reviewed annually to ensure that it is in effect during the financial year. The performance period Social responsibility market-based and competitive. for LTI 2017 was concluded after the close of the finanClas Ohlson works continuously on its social responsibilSustainability work covers all areas of activity and is precial year and LTI 2020 was launched. All incentive plans ity, including following up our Code of Conduct. A more sented on pages 11-34. See also the sustainability report Variable salary (Short Term Incentive, STI) are share matching and profit-based employee stock detailed description of Clas Ohlson’s work on its Code of on pages 96-112. In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualoption plans. Conduct is provided on pages 15-16. The company also ify for STI for performance that exceeds one or several assumes its social responsibility as regards the rights of Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives predetermined performance levels during a financial year, Pension children through its partnerships with Save the Children The following principles were adopted at the most recent designed to promote the company’s long-term value Pension agreements will, if possible, be defined-contribuand World Childhood Foundation. 39 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE D IRE CTO RS’ REPORT tion and formulated in accordance with levels and practal of 7,970 shares were allotted on 4 May in accordance electronic voting combined with postal voting in accortices applicable in the country in which the senior execuwith the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching of one After the end of the financial year, the company signed dance with the Swedish Act on Temporary Exemptions tive is employed. share per share purchased to those participants who rean agreement for an external credit facility corresponding to Facilitate the Execution of General Meetings in Commained employed after the three-year qualification period. to 100 MSEK to meet the company’s financing requirepanies and Associations (2020:198). This means that Other benefits ments. The company’s total credit facility thereafter shareholders will be unable to physically attend the Other benefits may occur in accordance with the terms The established performance criteria regarding average amounts to 1,100 MSEK. Meeting venue and shareholders can vote either by post applicable in the country in which the senior executive is sales growth and increased earnings per share for the in advance of the Meeting or by attending the Meeting employed. However, such benefits may not constitute a period 2017-2020 were not achieved, meaning that no Dividend electronically if the Board decides that the Meeting is to major portion of the combined remuneration. Health inoptions were allotted to the participants and, accordingly, Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to be held electronically combined with postal voting. More surance is to be offered to senior executives. the LTI 2017 has been concluded. comprise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after information will be provided in the notice of the AGM. tax, taking into account the company’s financial position. As previously announced, the AGM will be held on 12 Period of notice and severance pay In May 2020, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2020 was September 2020. The digital speeches of the CEO and Senior executives will be offered terms in accordance introduced under the same structure as LTI 2019. Senior Macroeconomic trends and their impact on the retail the Chairman of the Board will be made available on with the legislation and practices applicable to the counexecutives will purchase shares in LTI 2020 in mid-June. sector as a result of COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this about.clasohlson.com. try in which the person concerned is employed. A senior The exercise price for the conditional employee stock opstage, the Board intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s solexecutive will be prevented from working in a competing tions has been set at 99.90 SEK per share, with exercise id financial position and flexibility and therefore proposes business during the period of notice. In certain cases, of the options possible, following the three-year qualificathat no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial year. prohibition of competition in return for continued remution period between June 2023 and April 2027. Dividend per share neration may be applied for a maximum period of 24 Proposed allocation of earnings months following expiry of the period of notice. On 7 September 2019, the Annual General Meeting of The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the Clas Ohlson AB authorised the Board of Directors to Annual General Meeting: 8 Authorisation for the Board to depart from acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period 7 Profit brought forward 166,310 the guidelines until the next Annual General Meeting to secure the com6.25 6.25 Net profit for the year 175,085 6 The Board will be able to depart from these guidelines if pany’s commitment in connection with the introduction of Total 341,395 there are special reasons for doing so. In the event of a a share-based incentive programme, LTI 2020. The total 5 major deviation, the shareholders will be informed of the number of shares required to secure the undertaking for reasons for this at the next AGM. For more information LTI 2020 is estimated at 780,000. The entire LTI 2020 The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: 4 about remuneration, see Note 6. undertaking can be secured by using shares that were 3 Carried forward to new account 341,395 bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the need Total 341,395 Parent Company has been recalculated. 2 Parent Company sales during the financial year amount1 ed to 6,959 MSEK (6,788) and profit after financial items As per 30 April 2020, the company’s holding of Clas Regarding the company’s earnings and position in oth0 totalled 234 MSEK (247). Investments for the financial Ohlson treasury shares amounted to 2,262,553 shares, er respects, reference should be made to the following 0 year amounted to 196 MSEK (170). Contingent liabilities corresponding to 3 per cent of the total number of regisincome statements and balance sheets and the accom17/18 18/19 19/20* for the Parent Company amounted to 189 MSEK (237). tered shares. panying notes to the accounts. * Proposed dividend Events after the end of the year It was communicated on 4 June 2020 that the President Annual General Meeting The qualification and performance periods for the LTI and CEO Lotta Lyrå has decided to leave the company. Due to the prevailing situation and uncertainty surround2017 long-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2017 until Lotta will remain in her current position until 4 December ing COVID-19, the Board intends to convene the Annual 30 April 2020. After the end of the reporting period, a to2020. General Meeting (AGM) to be held by postal voting, or 40 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE RISKS A N D UNCERTAINT IES Risks and Strategic, operational, including sustainability risks and financial risks impact our opportunities for achieving our strategic and business-related goals. Creating awareis also made on the basis of how well the implemented countermeasures correspond with the desired level. This work is performed in each function based on the uncertainties ness of the risks in the operations means they can be composition of Group Management. Internal reports controlled, limited and managed correctly and thus on measures implemented and changes in risk assessconverted into a strategic opportunity for the business. ments are issued twice a year and on a continuous When handled correctly, risks may lead to opportunities basis when necessary. The effects of coronavirus, and and add value to the business. the resulting macroeconomic effects, on the Group’s operations have led to a need to continuously follow up To develop an attractive and relevant cusRisk management process Clas Ohlson works continuously to update the Group’s and analyse the Group’s risk status. tomer offering and to ensure our future risk exposure through a systematic process in which risks are identified, evaluated, managed and reportThe risks are compiled in risk maps to clarify overall exposure and the measures to be prioritised. Maps are competitiveness, we must understand how ed. Priority is assigned to the risks assessed as having the greatest negative impact in terms of probability compiled at Group level and are a key component of the company management’s and the Board’s strategic our business environment is changing. and conceivable effects on operations. Classification and operational governance. The operations conducted entail risks that Risk management could negatively impact the Group to varyThe Risk Committee compiles, coordiing extents. These risks can be divided into B O A RD O F DI R E CT O R S nates and develops the Group’s risk management, and submits a report to Group Management and the Board. G R O UP MA NA G E ME NT strategic, operational, financial and sustainRI S K CO MMI T T E E ability risks. The Group’s risk scenario can change quickly, and we work continually Marketing Communications Reporting Business development Finance & Administration Assortment & Purchasing Information & IR Store operations Each function monitors and manages Supply chain Digital & Online to update the risk situation and to ensure existing risks, identifies any new risks and Governance submits a report to the Risk Committee. IT HR quick, efficient risk management. S US TA I NA B I L I T Y 41 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE RISKS A N D UNCERTAINT IES Clas Ohlson’s Risk Committee performs the work inwith changes in the business environment, global trends Sustainability risks Sensitivity analysis volved in compiling, coordinating and developing risk such as global risks that the company cannot control: The company’s business model constitutes a potential Impact on profit management, and is then adopted by Group Managewar, disasters, pandemics, etc. and increased competinegative impact on people, the environment and sociCurrency Change, % before tax, MSEK ment and the Board. Our operations are impacted by tion, shifts in technology and in customers’ purchasing ety. Even if some of these risks lie outside Clas Ohlson’s NOK +/5 +/102 rapid changes, and these efforts remain a high priority habits, market positioning, and product range and offerdirect operations, the consequences of not addressUSD +/5 -/+ 70 as the company continues to grow and develop. ing as well as sustainability in its broadest meaning. ing them could impact Clas Ohlson’s reputation as a HKD +/5 -/+ 3 meaningful and trusted brand and company. They can EUR +/5 -/+ 8 Risk map (example) Operational risks also impact the confidence that employees, owners, GBP +/5 +/0 Operational risks are directly attributable to business customers and other stakeholders have in our operaThe two diagrams below show the SEK trend against the operations with a potential impact on earnings and the tions, impact our market position, disrupt production Group’s principal currency for purchasing (USD) and the financial position. Operational risks can normally be inand deliveries, result in unforeseen costs and cause Group’s principal currency for sales (NOK). fluenced and are often linked to the organisation’s proviolations of the law. Identifying environmental, social, Extremely high cesses, working methods and skills. Operational risks human rights and anti-corruption risks is an integral part are mainly risks associated with purchasing of products, of our sustainability initiatives, and systematic risk manMonthly average, USD/SEK Very high sustainability, IT systems, logistics, key employees, agement is integrated into our operations. 10.0 USD is our most important IM PAC T leases, shrinkage and regulatory risks. purchasing currency. At the 9.5 High Sustainability is an integral part of the business modbeginning of the financial year, on 2 May 2019, the exchange Financial risks el and governance. The foundation of this work is the 9.0 rate for USD was 9.54. Overall, Medium Financial risks are risks with a potential impact on earncompany’s Code of Conduct and ethical guidelines. the exchange rate strengthened during the year. It was ings and the financial position. Risks of a financial naIn spring 2020, Clas Ohlson initiated a review and up8.5 noted at 9.85 SEK on 30 April 2020, up 3 per cent. The ture consist primarily of risks associated with changes in date of the company’s sustainability strategy to reduce highest exchange rate was Low 8.0 the economy, currency exposure, transport costs, raw sustainability risks and raise the level of ambition, and M J J A S O N D J F M A 10.44 SEK noted in March 2020, while the lowest Very unlikely Unlikely Possible Likely Highly likely material prices and wage inflation. thereby the company’s competitiveness. exchange rate was 9.27 SEK 2018/19 2019/20 noted in June 2019. PROBABIL IT Y Countermeasures implemented Currencies, currency hedging and currency fluctuations Risk management COVID-19 Countermeasures partly implemented Countermeasures required The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due The effects of COVID-19 are being continuously monto sales in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About itored and any impact is managed separately in risk Monthly average, NOK/SEK 1.2 The graph shows the trend for 50 per cent of the company’s purchases are made in reporting to the Board. The company is keeping itself the NOK/SEK currency pair. currencies other than SEK. The table on the right shows informed of current regulations in its home markets. At the beginning of the 1.1 financial year, on 2 May 2019, Strategic risks how earnings are impacted by changes in currencies, Specific procedures were established in the fourth quarthe exchange rate for NOK The purpose of strategic risks is to ensure that the comexcluding hedging. ter to adapt the operations to the consequences of 1.0 was 1.09 versus SEK. The NOK weakened against the pany’s business model meets the needs and demands COVID-19. For example, procedures were established SEK during the financial year. of customers and other stakeholders in both the short Futures hedging is usually performed monthly in USD to adjust staffing levels according to needs, such as by 0.9 It was noted at 0.95 SEK on 30 April 2020, down 13 per and the long term, and that the company works within and NOK, with a maturity of three to nine months, applying temporary layoffs. Regular reviews of the mancent. The highest exchange 0.8 rate was 1.10 SEK noted in environmental, ethical and regulatory limits. In addition, against half of the expected flow in each currency. In agement of currency hedging have been introduced. M J J A S O N D J F M A May 2019, while the lowest strategic risks are intended to indicate changes in the this way, the company is guaranteed the forward rate exchange rate was 0.87 SEK 2018/19 noted in March 2019. business environment with potentially significant effects on a major proportion of its currency exchanges, but 2019/20 on Clas Ohlson’s operations and business goals. Risks also has the opportunity/risk of making the remaining of a strategic nature primarily comprise risks associated payments at the prevailing rate. 42 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE RISKS A N D UNCERTAINT IES Strategic risks Operational risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT CHANGES IN The retail landscape is changing at an increasingly rapid The purpose of Clas Ohlson’s new strategy for long-term, PURCHASING OF Clas Ohlson currently purchases just over 40 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct and ethical guidelines BUSINESS pace owing to changes in, for example, consumer profitable growth is to develop operations online, to offer a PRODUCTS the company’s products directly from manufacturers in apply to all our suppliers and purchase agreements. We ENVIRONMENT behaviour, purchasing patterns and technology. Online trafmore unique and focused product offering and simultaneAsia, the majority from China. There is a risk of bribes and have our own audit teams in China and engage third parties AND COMPETITION fic is increasing sharply, at the cost of foot traffic in physical ously to add a supplementary service offering to meet corruption in the purchasing process, and suppliers in lowin other countries to conduct inspections and monitor comstores. increased competition. wage countries entail increased risk of shortcomings in pliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct. working conditions and respect for human rights. This high Since the start of 2017, Clas Ohlson has been part of This means continued work on strengthening our digital exposure to a single country entails greater risk (political Sedex in order to further increase transparency regarding We are also seeing increased competition from both new platform and on developing our product range and our serrisk, transport risk, currency risk, pandemic risk and so the environment, labour and human rights. Clas Ohlson and existing players. Global e-retailers and other digital vice offering. We also enter into partnerships with others to forth). works continuously on evaluating new potential purchasing players are always expanding their business and challengdevelop a relevant, competitive and sustainable markets in both Europe and Asia. ing existing business models. Many are competing for the customer offering that inspires and helps our customers in same customers with similar offerings, and it is easier than their everyday lives. IT SYSTEMS Clas Ohlson’s operations are highly dependent on IT supClas Ohlson has an IT policy and an information security ever to make comparisons. port. As a result, it is essential that IT systems provide policy. In the event of new legislation or new regulations, the effective support for the company’s day-to-day operations actions to be taken will be decided well in advance. There CUSTOMERS’ Constantly connected consumers want to buy when, Clas Ohlson continues to focus on integrating and developand maintain a high level of reliability. are standardised processes for implementing new systems, PURCHASING where and how they want, and regardless of the sales ing various sales channels and delivery options, and on our for changing existing systems and for daily operations. PATTERNS AND channel they use, they expect a simple and consistent capacity to interact with customers through digital channels It is also important to ensure efficiency to support deciAnnual audits are performed and measures taken in the MARKET POSITION shopping experience tailored to their needs. to further improve our availability and service level. sion-making processes. Infringements or deficiencies in event of non-compliance. Clas Ohlson works actively to processing customer information, employee information or ensure that personal data is processed securely pursuant The rising trend of online shopping means that the physical Digitalisation provides us with tools to enhance underbusiness-critical data can lead to decreased confidence, to the applicable regulations. Security is a constant focus store is increasingly becoming a meeting place and an standing of customer behaviour, drive sales, build loyalty breaches of applicable rules and entail a negative impact area, for example, external parties perform scanning and arena for experiences. Customers expect affordable, quick, and easily serve customers throughout the entire decion the Group’s earnings. penetration testing. reliable and convenient deliveries, and want to choose the sion-making and purchasing process, with respect for their best option for them at that specific time. privacy (GDPR). We are also working to continually optimise LEASES Clas Ohlson leases the premises where shops have their Clas Ohlson endeavours to have flexible leases, with suitour store network. operations. Contract periods vary, depending on the marable contract periods, with the option of re-negotiation ket, but there is a risk that lease terms are too long and during the contract term. PRODUCT RANGE, The company’s most important task is to offer customers a Clas Ohlson works on detailed market and competitor contracts are not flexible enough in a changeable market. OFFERING AND relevant, attractive, affordable and sustainable product assessments in order to create good conditions for designCOMMUNICATION range. If Clas Ohlson were to misjudge new trends and ing an attractive and affordable offering. SHRINKAGE Clas Ohlson is exposed to shrinkage — shoplifting, for The Group implements long-term preventive measures to demand for products, services and communication, this example — on a daily basis. reduce shrinkage, using such methods as training initiatives could entail lower growth and profitability. Clas Ohlson works continually to maintain a clear and and technical equipment. In addition, security efforts are inspiring store and online concept, the right pricing and continually monitored, evaluated and adapted. outstanding service. LOGISTICS Clas Ohlson’s distribution centre in Insjön is the hub of the Clas Ohlson invests continually in further enhancing the effiGROWTH Clas Ohlson will develop its operations, grow and Clas Ohlson conducts detailed market and competitor Group’s distribution chain. Goods from suppliers in Europe ciency of its logistics and the work in the distribution centre. strengthen its brand in markets where we conduct operaanalyses before decisions on strategic investments in the and manufacturers in Asia come here to be distributed to all We are working on maintenance and inspection of systions. We are developing our customer offering, our sales customer offering and sales channels, and capitalises on our shops and our online customers. Collecting the logistems, fire protection and security systems, etc. channels and a supplementary service offering. The risk is the experiences gained from previous ventures. tics in one location carries certain risks, for example, disthat these investments in growth will not generate the ruptions to communications and infrastructure, as well as The Group also continuously reviews the distribution chain intended results. fire and strikes. to ensure efficiency and to reduce its impact on the environment. REGULATORY RISKS The company operates in a context where laws and regulaClas Ohlson has an ethical approach and well-functioning tions undergo continual change, becoming more complex. internal controls. In the event of new legislation or regulaDeficiencies in interpretation or compliance can damage tions, the actions to be taken will be decided well in the company’s reputation and result in fines or other sancadvance of the regulations being implemented. tions. 43 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE RISKS A N D UNCERTAINT IES Financial risks Sustainability risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC CLIMATE The retail market in general is adversely affected by a weak Clas Ohlson’s broad and affordable product range is less RAW MATERIALS Non-optimised choice of materials, use of non-renewable Clas Ohlson is working actively to replace fossil fuel-based economy and although Clas Ohlson sells products for sensitive to cyclical fluctuations compared with many other resources and inefficient use of raw materials for products materials with more sustainable alternatives. Furthermore, everyday use, a weak retail market will have a negative competitors. and packaging, among suppliers and in Clas Ohlson’s the aim is to reduce the use of materials and use more ecoimpact on sales. operations risks resulting in an excessively large impact on friendly materials. In this context, we are striving to increase Clas Ohlson’s offering entails a lower risk since demand in the environment from Clas Ohlson’s operations. The comthe use of recycled materials and try out recycling opportuThe risk that the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in one product category could rise while demand in another pany also risks a damaged reputation regarding its choice nities, for example, designing products so that more mate2020 will lead to an economic downturn, which would falls. of materials that customers perceive to be insufficiently susrials can be separated. These measures will be specified in affect the company’s sales and financial position. tainable. the framework of the ongoing strategy efforts. EMISSIONS Carbon emissions from the operations risk contributing to Clas Ohlson works continuously to invest in CURRENCIES The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to Futures hedging is usually performed monthly in NOK and global warming above regulatory limits and those of the energy-efficient products. The offering of products and sersales in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per USD, with a maturity of three to nine months, against half of Paris Agreement. vices that promote a circular economy is increasing, and cent of the company’s purchases are made in currencies the expected flow in each currency. In this way, the comthe company is phasing out less sustainable products or other than SEK. The principal currencies for purchasing are pany is guaranteed the forward rate on a major proportion Carbon emissions from the operations include electricity entire product categories. the US dollar (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro of its purchases, but also acquires the opportunity/risk of consumption when using our products, carbon emissions (EUR). Movement of the SEK against the Norwegian krone paying for the remaining purchases at the current rate. from transportation, the carbon footprint of energy Clas Ohlson is also ensuring energy-efficient stores, offices, (NOK) is also important for the Group, since Norway use in stores, offices, warehouses and premises, carbon warehouses and premises, and is replacing fossil-based accounts for approximately 40 per cent of sales. Net expoThe effects of the pandemic are being continuously monifrom the production of products, and carbon emissions materials with more sustainable alternatives. sure to EUR is low, since the company brings in currency tored. To manage the higher market volatility, regular from business travel. through sales in the Finnish and German markets. The reviews of the management of hedging have been introActive measures are being taken to increase the fill rate of Group is also exposed to the pound sterling (GBP) via sales duced. Excessively high carbon emissions risk having a negative goods transportation by consolidating goods and adapting in the UK. The table on page 79 shows how profit is impact on the environment, climate, lives and society, and to more sustainable logistics systems (including last mile affected by changes in principal currencies, excluding reduce the supply of raw materials for future needs. In turn, deliveries). hedging. this can lead to disruptions to production, operations and customers’ purchasing behaviour as a result of extreme The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a greater risk of higher weather conditions and thus increased costs. It can also market volatility as a result of the trade conflict that escaresult in a damaged reputation among our stakeholders lated during the outbreak. and have regulatory consequences in the event of non-compliance. TRANSPORTATION Freight shipping prices can vary considerably depending on Clas Ohlson handles changes in freight shipping prices by COSTS the global market price, and currency fluctuations. actively monitoring and assessing the market. We endeavCHEMICALS There is the risk for ground and water pollution, primarily Active measures are continuously taken to limit the potenour to optimise the fill rate by increasing the consolidation from manufacturing of Clas Ohlson’s products. Health risks tially hazardous chemicals in products in the Clas Ohlson of goods. also arise in the manufacturing, processing and use of range. Clas Ohlson also applies frameworks for handling products among suppliers and in Clas Ohlson’s operations. chemicals-adapted to the EU RoHS and Reach legislation. Incorrect use of chemicals and their impact could also lead In addition, the cautionary principle is applied through Clas RAW MATERIAL PRICES Purchase prices for the company’s products are largely Clas Ohlson has a broad portfolio of products and is thereto damage to Clas Ohlson’s reputation. Ohlson’s chemicals requirements, which define both gendetermined by the price of individual raw materials in global fore less impacted by changes to a specific raw material. eral and product-specific requirements that are updated markets. This applies particularly to cables and electronics Regulatory changes regarding the use of chemicals could annually. (copper), batteries (zinc), lighting (aluminium) and plastic Some of Clas Ohlson’s suppliers purchase commodities/ impact production and the product range. Regulatory conproducts (oil). Hedging against raw material prices is not materials at fixed contract prices, which entails some indisequences may also arise in the event of non-compliance. carried out directly by the company. This entails a risk since rect hedging. the purchase price of the products concerned is affected by price trends for raw materials. END-OF-LIFE If Clas Ohlson’s customers use our products ineffectively, or Long-term actions are being taken to increase the quality of PRODUCTS if the products have short service lives, demand for raw products to extend their service lives and product design to materials increases, as does the negative impact on the promote more sustainable materials and facilitating recyWAGE INFLATION Clas Ohlson is affected by wage-level changes in countries Clas Ohlson works continuously to find new purchasing environment.There is also the risk of damage to Clas Ohlcling. where the company’s products are manufactured. This can markets, both in Europe and Asia. son’s reputation if products are of low quality, have a very vary between products depending on how much labour is short service lives or if the product lifecycle is not perceived Clas Ohlson offers spare parts and solutions for repairing involved in the manufacturing process. to be circular. and extending product service lives and offer multi-use products and hiring and sharing services that reduce FINANCING AND Regulatory changes, for example, service life requirements waste. Customers are also offered a number of The company’s liquidity follows the given structure for seaThe cash flow is continuously controlled and balanced to LIQUIDITY could affect the development and sale of our products. initiatives and solutions, to facilitate collection, reuse and sonal payments, resulting in lower levels of liquidity in the the set goals through sales, purchasing, costs, capital balRegulatory consequences may also arise in the event of recycling. autumn in connection with stock build-up for Christmas ance, etc. The dividend for the 2018/19 financial year was non-compliance. shopping and dividend payment. split into two equal payments on two separate occasions in September and January. 44 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE RISKS A N D UNCERTAINT IES RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT CONFIDENTIALITY AND There is the risk of regulatory consequences in the event of We apply an information security policy that we adopt every SOCIAL CONDITIONS, HUMAN RIGHTS AND EMPLOYEES SECURITY failings in confidentiality and security. There is also the risk year and process personal data in accordance with appliof a damaged reputation if policies and internal processes cable legislation and our internal guidelines. EMPLOYEES Employees must have insight into how the strategic Clear, communicative and inclusive leadership, combined are substandard. direction is to be implemented in practice in order to with skills exchange and development, equip the company achieve the set goals and strategies. This places considerfor the future and cultivate an organisation prepared to able demands on recruitment, skills development and intershoulder new challenges. Clas Ohlson has a strong brand ANTI-CORRUPTION nal mobility. The geographic location of the main office and as an employer, although certain skills are difficult to find large parts of our operations at Insjön could also result in outside the metropolitan areas in the Nordics. BRIBERY IN There is the risk of corruption, among both suppliers and Clas Ohlson has zero tolerance for corruption. The Code of difficulties in recruiting employees with the right expertise. THE SUPPLY CHAIN employees, that threatens economic and social stability, Business Ethics is adopted and applied every year as part New work processes have been implemented and impact especially in high-risk countries. of the company’s Code of Conduct. All suspected deviaIf Clas Ohlson is not perceived to be a relevant employer most employees. We have recruited digital expertise in tions are reported. The company has implemented an brand, and if we cannot safeguard talent, offer employees recent years. At the same time, Clas Ohlson is carrying out If applicable rules are breached, there is the risk of regulaexternal anonymous whistle-blower service. Furthermore, the right skills development in digital work processes for development and training activities with a teaching platform tory consequences, higher costs, quality shortfalls, delivery senior executives, employees who work with purchasing, example, there is also the risk of not being able to attract and structured employee appraisals. Broad training in the problems and a damaged reputation and harm to the comhigh-value contracts, and agents in Asia are trained in busithe rights skills in the transformation that the retail sector is digital arena is offered to all employees. pany’s brand. Obstacles to establishing operations in new ness ethics. undergoing. purchasing regions may also arise. Clas Ohlson has a zero tolerance policy on discrimination. Limited diversity could mean that we do not reflect or optiThe recruitment process strives to increase diversity. Clas mise customer interaction. There is also the risk that the Ohlson has set gender equality and diversity targets and company’s reputation is damaged if there are shortcomings policies. in its diversity efforts and if Clas Ohlson is not perceived to contribute to an inclusive society. WORKING In high-risk countries, there is the risk of violations of the Clas Ohlson’s mitigating activities include consolidation and CONDITIONS right to free association, fair wages, safety, discrimination focus on purchases from strategic suppliers that AND HUMAN and access to social insurance systems among suppliers. uphold a high standard in these areas. Compliance with the RIGHTS There is also the risk of forced and compulsory labour and Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics is regularly child labour among suppliers. Families also risk being negamonitored and any deviations are followed up. The comtively affected by labour migration that takes place in the pany also works to ensure improvements to working condisupply chain. tions over time at Clas Ohlson’s suppliers. Breaches of applicable rules may result in regulatory conseClas Ohlson continuously trains both factory workers and quences for Clas Ohlson. If regulations or Clas Ohlson’s management at our suppliers. We also work on additional Code of Conduct are breached, there is the risk that partaction to promote children’s rights both in our supply chain nerships with suppliers must be terminated, which could and in our home markets. also damage Clas Ohlson’s reputation as a company and a brand. Clas Ohlson checks potential suppliers based on the requirements in the Code of Conduct before any partnerThe risk of transparency regarding the impact of our prodship begins and refrains from initiating a partnership if seriucts influences consumer purchasing behaviour. ous deviations are discovered. HEALTH AND SAFETY If regulations are breached, there is the risk to life and Clas Ohlson takes responsibility for all employees and subhealth, regulatory consequences and a damaged reputacontractors working in its operations. tion for the company and the brand. Costs can also arise due to interruptions in operations as a consequence of sick The company’s starting point is to follow laws, regulations leave and safety shortcomings. and recommendations. We also have constructive dialogue with employee representatives and safety officers to work on improving health and safety activities according to a long-term plan. 45 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Chairman’s operational, financial and legal risks in accordance with our corporate governance. that gives us continuity over time, and a strong team in place that has embarked on a journey of change and is now ready to take the next step. This presents us with letter In addition, the Board’s work has largely centred on the every opportunity to continue to deliver customer value continued change process. This work took place in variand shareholder value even in a more uncertain future. ous committees and in regular meetings where we benefit from our various skills to make Clas Ohlson stronger. Kenneth Bengtsson I believe that the composition of the Board is highly Chairman of the Board appropriate, with a fitting mix of people with different Insjön, June 2020 Two years ago, I wrote in this letter that the experience that will help us to navigate the increasingly complex retail market. Our corporate governance is Board had assigned the CEO and the rest of based on such international norms as the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, the management team the task of gearing up labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is also reflected in our policies, guidelines and how we build to develop the company going forward. relationships with our stakeholders. The Board works in close dialogue with company management and in my opinion we work very well together, We wanted to find a way of proactively handling a new this change process. In a short space of time, we have with everyone bringing their tremendous commitment business environment and capitalising on the opportutransformed and digitalised our business, which meant to Clas Ohlson’s best. For this, the entire Board and I nities that presented themselves to Clas Ohlson as conthat we succeeded in keeping pace with our customers would like to thank company management and all othsumer behaviour patterns change and the rule book for and meeting the changes to their demands and expecer employees for their incredible work during the year. the industry is rewritten. We launched a new strategy tations. And this was achieved without compromising I would also like to thank Lotta Lyrå in particular, who and about 20 important initiatives were defined under our profitability or financial stability. announced at the start of June that she will step down the CO100+ action programme that we needed to imas President and CEO of Clas Ohlson. Although Lotta plement over the next two years to prepare Clas Ohlson Due to the corona pandemic, safeguarding the compawill remain in her role for some time ahead, I would like for the future. ny’s financial position was a key issue addressed by the to take the opportunity here to highlight her significant Board during the year. Macroeconomic trends resulting contributions to Clas Ohlson’s transformation and the Looking back, I can conclude that the transformation from the pandemic remain uncertain, but our financial creation of a new platform for profitable growth. in the industry was even faster than we predicted, not strength and contingency planning means that we have least as a result of the corona pandemic that has imthe scope for action in both the short and long term. As we as a company now look ahead, we do so with a pacted the entire world this year. But I am delighted This gives the Board a better platform to deliver on our unique customer offering, a very strong position in our to say that we also achieved the desired effects from primary task of leveraging the opportunities available to Nordic home markets and a continued healthy financial the company, while balancing them with the strategic, position. We have established a culture at the company 46 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Corporate Registration can be made by telephone, e-mail, letter or the company’s website. carried out as an external written and interview-based evaluation (Group management and the Board as a whole). In addition to that the CEO was also interviewed. governance Each year, the AGM appoints the Board, the Chairman of The results of the evaluation were presented verbally and the Board and the auditors for Clas Ohlson. In addition, in writing by the Board Chairman Kenneth Bengtsson the AGM decides how profits are to be appropriated. and the external partner that carried out the evaluation. Other issues that arise are mandatory items under the The assessment is that the Board worked well during the Companies Act and Clas Ohlson’s Articles of Association year. Reporting took place in order to enable the NomiGood corporate governance is a prerequisite for (available at about.clasohlson.com). nation Committee to make as thorough an assessment as possible of the Board’s combined expertise and expemaintaining confidence among shareholders, On 30 April 2020, the company’s largest shareholders, each representing at least 10 per cent of the votes, were rience. customers and other external stakeholders and Helena Ek Tidstrand (16.9 per cent), Johan Tidstrand (12.4 per cent), Peter Haid (11.8 per cent) and, through The Nomination Committee fulfils the guidelines pertaining to independence as stated in the Code. The Nominais built on the company’s strategies, targets and privately held companies, Mathias Haid and Charlotte Haid Bondergaard (12.6 per cent) and Grischa Haid and tion Committee represents broad experience of work in boards of directors and nominating procedures. values permeating the entire organisation. Claus-Toni Haid (11.8 per cent). Nomination Committee prior to the 2020 AGM Nomination Committee Prior to the AGM held on 12 September 2020, Clas The Nomination Committee’s task is to submit proposOhlson’s Nomination Committee comprised the followThe governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon Swedish Compliance with applicable regulations for stock als for Board members and auditors, as well as fees to ing members: Jonas Bergh, Chairman of the Nomination legislation, primarily the Companies Act, the listing agreeexchange trading Board members (including committee work) and to auCommittee, representing the owner-family Haid, Göran ment with Nasdaq Stockholm and the Swedish CorpoNeither the Swedish Securities Council nor the Stockditors, to the next AGM at which the Board and auditors Sundström, representing the owner-family Tidstrand, rate Governance Code (the Code). In addition, governance holm Stock Exchange’s Disciplinary Committee reported are due to be elected. The Nomination Committee also Ricard Wennerklint, representing If Skadeförsäkring AB, follows the Articles of Association, internal instructions and infringements of good stock exchange practices or of the proposes the Chairman of the AGM. Erik Durhan, representing Nordea Fonder, and Kenneth policies, and recommendations issued by relevant application of stock exchange regulations. Bengtsson, Chairman of the Board of Clas Ohlson. organisations. The corporate governance report has At Clas Ohlson, a nomination process is applied for electbeen prepared in accordance with the Code. Annual General Meeting ing the Nomination Committee. The Chairman of the The composition of the Nomination Committee is based Shareholders exercise their influence through participaBoard is a member of the Nomination Committee, along on the ownership structure at 30 September 2019. The The Swedish Corporate Governance Code tion in the company’s Annual General Meeting (the ordiwith representatives of the four largest registered shareNomination Committee represents slightly more than 71 The Swedish Corporate Governance Code is applicable nary annual general meeting). The AGM is the ultimate holders or otherwise known shareholders (record date 30 per cent of the total number of company shares (votes). to all companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The aim decision-making body and since the initial public offering September). If a shareholder does not elect a member, The Nomination Committee will serve until a new Nomiis to improve corporate governance in listed companies in 1999, has always been held in Insjön on a Saturday the second largest shareholder in line will be asked. The nation Committee has been elected. and foster trust in companies among the general pubin early September. The Notification of the AGM, which Nomination Committee elects a Chairman from within the lic and in the capital market. The Code is based on the is normally communicated about four weeks prior to the Committee, who, according to the Code, shall not be the The objective of the Nomination Committee’s work is that “comply or explain” principle, which means that it is posAGM, is published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar, as well Chairman of the Board or another Board member. the Board is to have the expertise, experience and backsible to deviate from the Code if an explanation is providas on the company’s website. All shareholders who are ground required by the assignment. The degree of divered as to why the deviation has been made. There were registered in the share register on the fifth day prior to An evaluation of the Board’s work and Board composisity in the Board was also taken into account and efforts no deviations from the Code within Clas Ohlson during the AGM and registered in time are entitled to participate. tion was carried out during the year. The evaluation was are made to achieve gender balance. Factors including the financial year. 47 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C O RPO RATE GOVERNANCE The Board’s working schedule Composition of the Board and attendance during the financial year 1 INDEPENDENT BOARD MEETAUDIT COMPEOPLE COMNOMINATION MEMBER 2, 3 ELECTED 5, 6 INGS MITTEE MITTEE COMMITTEE KENNETH BENGTSSON 2013 Yes 17/17 4 4/4 4 3/3 May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr MATHIAS HAID 7 2015 Yes 5/No 6 15/17 4/4 Annual report GÖRAN NÄSHOLM 2015 Yes 16/17 4/4 AGM GÖRAN SUNDSTRÖM 7 2014 Yes 5/No 6 17/17 11/11 4 3/3 Monthly updates of the business operations, results, KPIs, etc. ANNE THORSTVEDT SJÖBERG 2017 Yes 16/17 Operations planning CHARLOTTE STRÖMBERG 2017 Yes 17/17 10/11 MARGARETA LEHMANN 2018 Yes 17/17 • Strategy meeting • Dividend proposal • Interim report, Q2 • Interim report, Q3 • Year-end Report • Financial reporting • Financial reporting HÅKAN LUNDSTEDT 2018 Yes 12/17 8/11 • Financial reporting • Interim report, Q1 • Monitoring of business • Monitoring of business • Monitoring of business • Financial reporting plan/forecast plan/forecast plan/forecast • Monitoring of business • Risk reporting • Forecast for future financial 1 The trade-union organisations have had four representatives on the Board. For further information on Board members, see page 52-53. The work of the Board and its commit• Annual Report for the preplan/forecast years tees is described on page 49. ceding financial year • Annual General Meeting • Decision on business plan 2 For information on date of birth, work experience, directorships and shareholdings, see page 52-53. • Risk reporting • Statutory Board meeting • Decision pertaining to 3 Remuneration of Board members is stated in Note 6, see page 73. • Meeting with auditors • Meeting with auditors remuneration issues 4 Chairman. 5 Independent in relation to the company and Group management according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 6 Independent in relation to major shareholders of the company according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 7 Representative or major shareholder. Major shareholder, see page 117. the company’s diversity policy were considered by the cial year. Individual interviews were also held with a Auditors guidelines indicating what engagements the auditing firm Nomination Committee in its work. number of Board members. The AGM appoints auditors for the Parent Company may undertake in addition to auditing. each year. The AGM held on 7 September 2019 Particular emphasis was placed on the company’s stratThe Nomination Committee’s work during the mandate appointed Deloitte the auditors of the company, with Board of Directors egies and targets, as well as on the demands that the period included the following: Kent Åkerlund as Auditor in Charge. Kent Åkerlund is an Clas Ohlson’s shareholders elect the Board of Directors company's future focus will place on the Board. The • Report on the Board’s work from the Chairman of the Board Authorised Public Accountant at Deloitte. Deloitte was annually at the AGM. The Board comprises eight members, Nomination Committee also discussed the Board’s long• An external Board evaluation elected up to the 2020 AGM. who are elected by the AGM. In addition to these members, term composition on the basis of future competency • Nomination of the Chairman of the Board and Board the Board includes two representatives and two deputies requirements, diversity and succession. members Payment for the audit engagement in the Group in the for the trade-union organisations in the company. These • Position concerning the independence of Board mempast three years totalled 2.3 MSEK, 2.3 MSEK and 2.2 individuals are elected by their own organisations. The Committee worked on the nominating procedure for bers and candidates MSEK, respectively. Payment for other assignments in Clas Ohlson’s AGM and held three recorded meetings, • Preparation of proposals for fees to the Board and the past three years totalled 0.9 MSEK, 0.4 MSEK and The Board fulfils the independence requirement of the where the Board’s composition was evaluated, considcommittees 0.6 MSEK, respectively. Work in addition to auditing reCode. All members, with the exception of Mathias Haid and ered and discussed. In addition, the Committee was • Preparation of proposals for the Chairman of the AGM lates primarily to issues pertaining to consultation on Göran Sundström, are deemed independent in relation to in discussions and remained in informal contact, and a • Nomination of auditors tax issues and IFRS accounting rules. The independent the company, Group management and major shareholders. number of meetings were held after the end of the finanposition of the auditors is ensured firstly by the internal Clas Ohlson strives towards diversity, meaning having an The Nomination Committee’s complete proposals were policies of the auditing firm and secondly by the Board’s equal distribution of men and women on the Board over presented on 8 July 2020. 48 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C O RPO RATE GOVERNANCE Risk management time. Gender distribution on the Board among the memHow the Board works bers elected by the AGM in the past financial year was five The rules of procedure for the Board of Directors stipulate men (62.5 per cent) and three women (37.5 per cent). In which items on the agenda are to be fixed and which may the preceding year, the corresponding distribution was five vary. Each Board meeting is normally to be devoted to a Decision on overall policies B O A RD O F DI R E CT O R S men (62.5 per cent) and three women (37.5 per cent). All specific topic so that the Board can gain more in-depth Board members were re-elected at the 2019 AGM. knowledge and understanding of the various parts of the company’s operations. There are also presentations on Monitoring A UDI T CO MMI T T E E Board meetings these topics by employees of the company. Immediately following the AGM, the statutory Board Governance meeting is held, at which the rules of procedure for the The issues that the Board dealt with during the year inReporting Implement, delegate G R O UP MA NA G E ME NT Board and instructions to the company’s CEO are apcluded strategic direction, monitoring of the business proved. The members of the Board’s Audit Committee plan, a review of risk management, significant business and People Committee (remuneration committee) and processes, development of current markets, expansion Establish guidelines and instructions, authorised signatories for the company are also appointand sustainability targets. educate, compile reports R I S K CO MMI T T E E ed at this meeting. In addition to this meeting, the Board holds at least seven further meetings during the financial The work of the Board's committees is an important elyear. These are held quarterly in conjunction with the ement of the Board’s work. The Board has prepared inMonitor existing risks, identify new HE A D O F F UNCT I O N risks, report publication of the company’s financial reports, once in structions for the committees’ work. The remuneration June prior to concluding the Annual Report, once in concommittee (Clas Ohlson’s name for it is People Commitnection with the Annual General Meeting and once during tee) and Audit Committee discuss issues that fall within the autumn for strategic discussions. The strategy meetthe committees’ remit. Issues that have been addressed ing usually takes place over two days, while other meetin the committee meetings are minuted and notified to the mittee is responsible for supervising the effectiveness of 48. The meetings are recorded and reported at the next ings are held on one day. The strategy meeting mainly other Board members at the Board meetings. risk management and internal control over the financial Board meeting. Representatives of Group management discusses issues relating to the Group’s targets and reporting. attended the committee’s meetings as co-opted memstrategies, product range, store establishment strategy, The rules of procedure also state that the Board must bers. The meetings addressed issues aimed at quality major investments and so forth. Other meetings primarily meet with the company’s auditors at least twice per year. The members of the Audit Committee met the auditors assuring risk management and internal control over the deal with usual Board issues, the company’s reports and In addition, the rules of procedure also regulate certain on three occasions during the financial year to learn financial reporting. Moreover, the Audit Committee dealt reporting by the Board committees. Extra meetings were formal matters, such as rules for the notification of meetabout the focus of the audit and discuss views on the with issues regarding the company’s interim reports, anheld during the current financial year to discuss and deings and confidentiality. risks faced by the company. The auditors also attended nual report, accounting, liquidity and other issues. Extra cide on matters arising due to COVID-19 and its effect on additional meetings. Important tasks for the Audit Commeetings were held during the current financial year to the operations and the financial context. Audit Committee mittee are to serve as a communication link, between the discuss and decide on matters arising due to COVID-19 At its first meeting following the AGM, the Board estabBoard and the company’s auditors and to establish what and its effect on the operations and the financial context. The company’s auditors attend three of the Board meetlished an Audit Committee comprising Göran Sundström services over and beyond auditing can be procured from ings to report on what has emerged during the audit. The (Chairman), Charlotte Strömberg and Håkan Lundstedt. the company’s auditors. The auditing effort is evaluated People Committee Board meets the auditors once annually without the presThe Board has issued instructions for the committee annually, after which information is passed to the NomiIn accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the ence of Group management. The Board held 17 Board work. nation Committee on the outcome. AGM of a limited liability company whose shares are meetings during the financial year. The Board assesses listed for trading on a regulated marketplace is to decide its work annually. The Audit Committee is responsible for the quality assurThe Audit Committee held 11 meetings during the fion guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. The ance of financial reporting. In addition, the Audit Comnancial year. Attendance is shown in the table on page Code also stipulates that the Board is to establish a 49 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C O RPO RATE GOVERNANCE remuneration committee, which at Clas Ohlson is called that specified targets are attained. The CEO ensures Furthermore, there are internal control instruments conof the Board. No remuneration is paid to members of the People Committee. that the control environment is favourable and that the sisting of the Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of Nomination Committee. Read more on page 73, Note 6. Group’s risk-taking at any time is compatible with the procedure, instructions for the CEO, policies, guidelines, The Clas Ohlson Board decided at its statutory meetBoard’s guidelines. Any deviations have to be reported to the Code of Conduct as well as Clas Ohlson’s values and Remuneration of the CEO comprises fixed salary and ing in September 2019 that the People Committee was the Board. The Board also receives regular information corporate culture. variable remuneration, and the entire amount is set by to comprise Kenneth Bengtsson (Chairman), Göran from the CEO through a monthly report. the Board. A more detailed presentation of remuneration, Näsholm and Mathias Haid. The Board has issued inClas Ohlson’s corporate culture pension and severance pay for the CEO is presented on structions for the committee work. CEO and Group Management The Clas Ohlson spirit encapsulates how we treat each pages 73-76, Note 6. Clas Ohlson’s CEO leads the Group Management’s work other and our customers and it has in essence been the The People Committee submits proposals for guidelines and makes decisions pertaining to the operations in consame since the company was founded in 1918. Read The 2019 AGM decided on guidelines for remuneration pertaining to basic salary and variable remuneration for sultation with others in Group management. At the end of more about the Clas Ohlson spirit on pages 25 and 30. of senior executives pertaining to the 2019/20 financial senior executives. The process regarding variable remuthe financial year, Group Management comprised eleven year, based on the Board’s proposal. These guidelines neration for all staff works in a similar way. The Commitindividuals and meetings were held monthly and as otherRemuneration principles cover basic salary, variable remuneration, pension bentee met four times during the financial year. Attendance wise necessary. The meetings focus primarily on strategic The general principles of remuneration for senior execuefits and other benefits. For information on the complete is shown in the table above. The meetings are recorded and operative monitoring and development, as well as tives are to be based on the position held, individual perdecided guidelines on remuneration, pension and severand reported at the next Board meeting. The Committee results follow-up. In addition to these meetings, there is formance, the Group’s financial results and the remuneraance pay, see Note 6, pages 73-76. addressed such issues as fixed and variable remuneraclose daily cooperation within management. tion being competitive in the country of employment. The tion, and evaluated and discussed matters relating to the combined remuneration of senior executives is to consist Risk management company’s long-term incentive plan (LTI). The Committee Governance of subsidiaries of basic salary, variable salary in the form of a short-term The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk also prepared a new LTI plan that will be proposed to the The five wholly owned subsidiaries Clas Ohlson AS in incentive based on annual performance objectives, longeffort. The risk situation in Clas Ohlson is updated and 2021 AGM. Norway, Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, Clas Ohlson Ltd in term incentives based on multi-year performance, penanalysed regularly. This is done by means of a systemthe UK, Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany and Clas sion and other benefits. In addition, notice of termination atic process in which risks are identified, valued and Distribution of work between the Board and CEO Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai) in China are governed by their and severance pay are subject to terms and conditions. assessed, managed, monitored and reported. Using an The Board appoints the CEO of the company. The distriown boards in the country concerned, principally conoverall assessment, priority is given to those risks whose bution of work between the Board and CEO is indicated sisting of representatives of Clas Ohlson AB in Sweden. Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of impact and probability are deemed to represent the most in the Board’s rules of procedure and in the instructions The Board in Sweden receives continuous information remuneration, focusing on payments based on perfornegative effect. A key aspect in this work is the measures to the CEO. These state that the Board is responsible about the subsidiaries through the CEO’s monthly reports mance. This means that variable remuneration may comundertaken to avoid (control activities), reduce or shift the for the governance, supervision, organisation, strategies, on the subsidiaries. These reports also include the reprise a significant portion of the total remuneration. The risk to another party (insurance). The risks are entered internal control, forecasts and policies of the company. sults of operations and financial position of the company aim is for basic remuneration to be in line with the mediin risk maps in order to clarify the overall risk exposure. In addition, the Board decides on major investments and concerned. In addition to the wholly owned subsidiaries, an of the comparable market, while total remuneration, Mapping is done at the Group level and represents a tool matters of principle relating to the governance of subsidClas Ohlson also has a branch office in Hong Kong. when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to for operational and strategic governance by the Board iaries, as well as the election of Board members and the be in the upper quartile of the market. and the company’s Group management. By means of risk CEO. The Board is also responsible for the quality of the External and internal control instruments mapping, the focus can be aimed at reducing the compafinancial reporting. Clas Ohlson’s governance occurs within the framework Remuneration ny’s risk exposure and reducing the consequences of any for external control instruments, such as Nasdaq Fees paid to the Board during the financial year totalled risks emerging. The Risk Committee pursues the work The CEO in turn is responsible for ensuring that the comStockholm’s rules and regulations, the Swedish 3.67 MSEK, in accordance with the resolution by the AGM. involved in compiling, monitoring and developing the risk pany is managed in accordance with Board’s guidelines Companies Act, the Swedish Corporate Governance Of the fees paid, 0.6 MSEK pertained to remuneration for management process. Reporting of the Group’s overall and instructions. In addition, the CEO is responsible for Code and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. work on the Board’s People and Audit Committees. Of risk status is made internally to the Audit Committee and forecasting and planning the company’s operations so the Board's total fee, 0.8 MSEK was paid to the Chairman 50 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE C O RPO RATE GOVERNANCE the Board twice annually or if necessary. See also the risk roles and responsibilities, leading to effective manageconsist of inventories, right-of-use assets and non-curthe Audit Committee. For external communication, there section on pages 41-45. ment of the risks in the operation. rent assets. Accordingly, particular emphasis has been are guidelines that support the requirement to provide the placed on preventing and detecting deficiencies in these equities market with correct information. Sustainability The Group has regulations governing decision-making and areas when designing internal controls. For Clas Ohlson, it is important to protect and assume authorisation levels that parallel the Group’s organisational Monitoring responsibility for people and the environment impacted structure. The focus is on clarifying who has a mandate to The processes and the control structure are documented Group management and the Audit Committee regularby our operation. Our sustainability agenda is an intedecide on investments, activities, signing of agreements in a separate financial manual, which is updated regularly. ly report to the Board on the basis of established prograted part of Clas Ohlson’s operation and is described and so forth in each function and the limits in terms of the Work is continuously in progress to evaluate the most escedures. The Board receives regular information from under the respective area, on pages 16-21. See also the amounts involved. In the event that the amount exceeds sential processes in the Group. The greatest risks in each the CEO every month through a monthly report for the sustainability report on pages 96-109. the function’s mandate, the decision is assigned to the process are documented. Group. This monthly report also contains information on next level in the organisation. This is done in order to mainthe results and financial positions of the subsidiaries. Internal control over the financial reporting tain good corporate governance and awareness at the An assessment is then made of whether the controls that The Board has overall responsibility for the company’s various levels in the organisation. The regulations governtake place are adequate. If there is a need, further comEach interim report is analysed by the Audit Committee systems pertaining to internal control. The responsibility ing decision-making and authorisation constitute the basis pensatory controls are introduced to reduce the risk to with regard to the correctness of the financial information. is regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, which also for decision-making at Clas Ohlson. an acceptable level. The subsidiaries have accounting The Audit Committee also plays a key role in monitoring states that the Audit Committee has a specific responsimanagers and controllers who ensure that financial reto ensure that there are sufficient control activities for the bility for monitoring quality assurance in risk management Group management is responsible for implementing guideporting is correct and complete. In addition, they ensure most essential areas of risk pertaining to the financial and internal control over the financial reporting. lines for the maintenance of good internal control. Internal that legislation is observed and that financial reporting is reporting and communicating material issues to Group control is continuously being developed and improved. completed within the time frames to Group management management, Board and auditors. An important aspect The company’s work on internal control follows the Group management and the Audit Committee report continand to the Group accounting function. Moreover, there is to ensure that any viewpoints from the auditors are framework developed by The Committee of Sponsoring uously to the Board according to approved procedures. are controllers in major Group functions and in the Group rectified. Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The finance function with equivalent working tasks. framework consists of five individual areas: control enviAll activity is undertaken in accordance with the Group’s Three times a year, the entire Board meets the comparonment, risk assessment, control activities, information Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics. The Group finance function has a close and well-funcny’s auditors to be informed of the external audit and and communication and monitoring. tioning cooperation with subsidiaries as regards reporting discuss relevant issues. On the basis of the auditors’ Risk assessment and control activities and closing accounts. Each month, all subsidiaries report reporting, the Board forms a picture of the internal conControl environment Clas Ohlson continuously works on the risk-areas that are complete closing accounts, which constitute the basis trol and the correctness of the financial information. The The control environment comprises the organisational considered most prioritised based on materiality and risk. for the Group’s consolidated financial reporting. CEO does not take part in any issues that relate to Group structure and the values, guidelines, policies, instructions management. and so on, according to which the organisation works. The Group’s income consists of sales in stores and online Information and communication Effective Board work forms the basis of good internal conshopping where payment is principally made by credit Major policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals that Internal audit trol and the Board of Clas Ohlson has established rules of card or in cash. This income is documented in its enare of significance to internal control are regularly updatFollowing evaluations in the financial year and precedprocedure and clear instructions for its work. This includes tirety in bank accounts which are reconciled daily. The ed and communicated to employees concerned. General ing years, the Board has not found it necessary to date the Board’s People and Audit Committees. risk of errors in the reporting of income is limited. Group guidelines and instructions are also available on the comto establish an internal audit function. The company’s expenses primarily comprise goods-related expenses, pany’s intranet. Group-wide controller function has instead been adapted Part of the Board’s work involves drawing up and apfreight, salaries and social security contributions, rental to also deal with internal control activities. The question proving the policies that govern the Group’s work on expenses and marketing. Income and expenses are foreThere are both formal and informal information channels of whether to establish a separate internal audit function internal control. Another part involves creating the necescasted for each store and department. The outcome is to Group management and the Board for information from is re-examined annually. Furthermore, the company has sary conditions for an organisational structure with clear checked monthly against both the budget and the prestaff. The Board receives regular feedback from the opera Risk Committee that continuously evaluates material ceding year. About 90 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s assets ations on questions that relate to internal control through risks and control activities. 51 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson Mathias Haid Margareta Lehmann Håkan Lundstedt Göran Näsholm Charlotte Strömberg Chairman of the Board since 2014, Board Board member since 2015. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2015. Board member since 2017. member since 2013. Born in 1970. Born in 1958. Born in 1966. Mechanical engineer and Master of Master of Business Administration, Born in 1961. Business Administration. Stockholm School of Economics. Professional experience: Pilot at Professional experience: President of Professional experience: CEO and Born in 1955. Born in 1959. Professional experience: CEO and Lufthansa Cargo AG, training officer at Health and Medical Solutions at Essity (part managing director of Synsam and has prevarious executive positions at ICA for more Lufthansa’s airline operations and several of SCA until 2018), has held a number of viously been the CEO of Mekonomen and Professional experience: CEO of Ahlsell Professional experience: Former CEO of than 30 years. senior positions in Lufthansa’s airline opleading positions within SCA and Mölnlycke, Lantmännen, and held a number of senior AB 1999-2015. Executive Vice President of Jones Lang LaSalle Nordics, held a number erations since 1998. Member of the Board and been a board member of Sanitec. roles with Orkla. Ahlsell AB, Division Manager of Ahlsell AB, of roles with Carnegie Investment Bank, Alfred Other significant directorships: Chairman of Clas Ohlson AS and Clas Ohlson Oy President of Jirva AB, Purchasing Director Berg/ABN Amro, Consensus and Robur of the Board of Diaverum, Envirotainer, Ers2002-2005. Independent in relation to the company, Other significant directorships: Board of Calor Celsius AB and various purchasCapital Management. ta diakoni, Lyko, Mio möbler AB and World executive management and major member of Venue Retail Group. ing-related positions at Alfa Laval. Childhood Foundation. Board member of Other significant directorships: Board shareholders according to the Swedish Other significant directorships: Chairman Herenco, Synsam and Virtual Stores AB. member of Clas Ohlson Foundation. Corporate Governance Code. Independent in relation to the company, Other significant directorships: Chairof the Board of Castellum AB, vice Chairman executive management and major man of the Board of Malef Holding AB. Board of the Board Sofina S.A.. Board member of Independent in relation to the company, Dependent in relation to major shareholders Own and closely associated holdings*: shareholders according to the Swedish member of Martin & Servera AB, Momentum Kinnevik AB, Lindéngruppen AB, a member of executive management and major according to the Swedish Corporate Gover4,500 series B shares. Corporate Governance Code. Group AB and Pegroco Invest AB. the Swedish Securities Council and Founding shareholders according to the Swedish nance Code. Independent in relation to the Partner of DHS Venture. Corporate Governance Code. company and executive management. Own and closely associated holdings*: Independent in relation to the company, 0. executive management and major Independent in relation to the company, Own and closely associated holdings*: Own and closely associated holdings*: shareholders according to the Swedish executive management and major 67,000 series B shares. 503,980 series A shares and 2,389,777 Corporate Governance Code. shareholders according to the Swedish series B shares. Corporate Governance Code. Own and closely associated holdings*: 50,500 series B shares. Own and closely associated holdings*: * Own and closely associated holdings per 30 June 2020. 5,000 series B shares. 52 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE B O A R D O F D IRE CTO RS Göran Sundström Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Lasse Zwetsloot Caroline Östning Freja Aleman Emma Zetterqvist Board member since 2014. Board member since 2017. Employee representative Handels. Employee representative Unionen. Deputy employee representative Handels. Deputy employee representative Handels. Master of Business Administration, Lund University. Master of Business Administration, Board member since 2012. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2019. Born in 1962. University of Gothenburg. Born in 1976. Born in 1978. Born in 1979. Born in 1995. Born in 1965. Professional experience: Founder and Own and closely associated holdings*: Own and closely associated holdings*: Own and closely associated holdings*: Own and closely associated holdings*: CEO of Sundström & Partners, various Professional experience: Global Vice 1,552 series B shares. 0. 0. 0. senior positions in Corporate Finance at President Marketing, Consumer Insight & Alfred Berg Fondkommission AB, Aros Analytics, Electrolux AB. Previously Global Securities AB and Nordea Securities. Director, Consumer, Analysis and Business Development at Mondelez International. Other significant directorships: ChairSeveral years of international experience man of the Board of Logitall AB and Board in leading positions at companies such as member of Parks & Resorts Scandinavia Kraft Foods and Procter & Gamble. AB, Sundström & Partners AB and the Clas Ohlson Foundation. Independent in relation to the company, executive management and major Dependent in relation to major shareholders shareholders according to the Swedish according to the Swedish Corporate GoverCorporate Governance Code. nance Code. Independent in relation to the company and executive management. Own and closely associated holdings*: 4,200 series B shares. Own and closely associated holdings*: 2,400 series B shares (own holdings) and 1,600 series B shares via a legal entity. * Own and closely associated holdings per 30 June 2020. 53 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Group management Lotta Lyrå Peder Apelgren Eva Berg Pär Christiansen President and CEO Chief Digital Officer Director of Product Management & Sourcing CFO Employed in 2017. Employed in 2019. Employed in 2010. Employed in 2018. Born in 1975. Born in 1971. Born in 1965. Born in 1973. Master of Business Administration, MSc in Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Swedish School of Textiles Borås, MSc in Engineering, Faculty of engineering, Stockholm School of Economics Technology Köpmannainstitutet Stockholm. LTH, BSc in Business administration and Economics, Lund University. Professional experience: Head of Professional experience: Head of Professional experience: Assortment Development and Expansion for the IKEA Customer Service globally and several other Manager Clas Ohlson, Category Manager Professional experience: CFO at Gant Group, and other leading positions at leading positions at IKEA Group. Various Clas Ohlson, Production office manager and several leading positions at Transcom, IKEA Group. Various positions at Södra positions at Icon Medialab, Ericsson and H&M Hong Kong and other leading posiMTR and SAS. Skogsägarna and McKinsey & Co. Hewlett Packard. tions at H&M. Own and closely associated holdings*: Other significant directorships: Board Own and closely associated holdings*: Own and closely associated holdings*: 10,998 series B shares. member of the Swedish Trade Federation 1,996 series B shares. 3,607 series B shares. and MatHem.se. Own and closely associated holdings*: 21,445 series B shares. * Own and closely associated holdings per 30 June 2020. 54 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE G R O U P MA N A GE MENT The former country managers for Sweden and Finland, Fredrik Uhrbom and Virpii Viinikainen, left the company when the management structure was simplified on 1 May 2020. Stine TryggHauger will take over from Åse Holmberg as Chief Commercial Officer on 1 August. It was announced on 4 June 2020 that President and CEO Lotta Lyrå had decided to leave the company to take up another Tina Englyst Geir Hoff Stine Trygg-Hauger position. Lotta will remain in her Director of New Markets and Expansion current role until 4 December Head of Legal and Sustainability Country Manager Clas Ohlson Norway Employed in 2011. Employed in 1994. Chief Commercial Officer from 1 August 2020. Born in 1976. Born in 1972. 2020. Employed in 2009. On June 23, 2020, HR Director Master of Law, Uppsala University and Master of Arts, law, political science and Born in 1982. Jesper Smith left the company. University of Cambridge (LLM). social economics, University of Oslo. Marketing & Communications, BI Professional experience: Associate Professional experience: Director of Norwegian Business School. Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå, Senior Country Operations, Country Manager Clas Legal Counsel MTV Networks AB and Head Ohlson Norway, Marketing Manager Clas Professional experience: Country of Legal MTV Networks AB. Ohlson Norway and various other positions Manager Clas Ohlson Norway, Head of at Clas Ohlson Norway. Communications & Customer Interaction Other significant directorships: and other positions within marketing and Board member of Clas Ohlson Foundation. Own and closely associated holdings*: communications at Clas Ohlson Norway, 7,646 series B shares. Brand Manager at Validus. Own and closely associated holdings*: 7,959 series B shares. Own and closely associated holdings*: 3,362 series B shares. * Own and closely associated holdings per 30 June 2020. 55 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Contents Directors’ Report 36 Note 20 Financial instruments 80 Risks and uncertainties 41 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 81 Chairman’s letter 46 Note 22 Other provisions 81 Corporate governance 47 Note 23 Inter-Group transactions 81 Board of Directors 52 Note 24 Participations in Group companies 81 Group management 54 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets 82 Note 26 Appropriations 82 Consolidated financial statements 57 Note 27 Cash and bank balances 82 Parent Company financial statements 61 Note 28 Untaxed reserves 82 Note 29 Pledged assets 82 Notes Note 30 Leases 82 Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies 65 Note 31 Related-party transactions 83 Note 2 Financial risks 70 Note 32 Average number of employees 83 Note 3 Other operating income and expenses 72 Note 33 Segment reporting 83 Note 4 Depreciation 72 Note 34 Events after the end of the period 83 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost 72 Note 35 Change in accounting principle IFRS 16 84 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits 73 Note 7 Remuneration to auditors 76 Certification of the Annual Report 85 Note 8 Financial income and expenses 76 Auditor’s report 86 Note 9 Income tax 76 Quarterly results 89 Note 10 Earnings per share 77 Key ratio definitions 89 Note 11 Dividend per share 77 Glossary 90 Note 12 Non-current assets 77 Alternative performance measures 91 Note 13 Inventories 78 Ten-year overview 94 Note 14 Accounts receivable 78 Sustainability report 96 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 78 Store overview 113 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 78 History 114 Note 17 Forward contracts 79 The Clas Ohlson share 115 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity 79 Information to shareholders 118 Note 19 Pension obligations 79 56 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Group Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK Note 190501–200430 180501–190430 MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 1, 2 Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 Other comprehensive income, net after tax: Cost of goods sold 4, 5, 6 -5,268.1 -5,277.5 Items that can later be reversed in the consolidated income statement: Gross profit 3,490.2 3,494.8 Exchange-rate differences -52.9 1.3 Cash-flow hedging 34.9 7.0 Selling expenses 4, 5, 6 -2,720.0 -2,939.0 Items that cannot later be reversed in the consolidated income statement: 0.0 0.0 Administrative expenses 4, 5, 6, 7 -220.8 -253.2 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations Other operating income 3 25.8 25.1 Other comprehensive income, net after tax -18.0 8.3 Other operating expenses 3 -25.9 -233.7 Comprehensive income for the year 357.9 79.9 Operating profit 549.2 94.0 (Of the above profits 376.3 MSEK is attributable to owners of the Parent and -0.4 MSEK is attributable to the minority. Of the Financial items above Comprehensive income 358.3 MSEK is attributable to owners of the parent and -0.4 MSEK attributable to the minority.) Financial income 8 0.1 1.1 Financial expense 8 -67.6 -3.3 Profit before tax 481.8 91.9 Income tax 9 -105.8 -20.3 Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 Number of shares at the end of the period, millions 63.3 63.2 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 10 5.94 1.13 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10 5.94 1.13 Proposed dividend per share, SEK 11 6.25 57 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Group Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet MSEK Note 20-04-30 19-04-30 MSEK Note 20-04-30 19-04-30 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Capital and reserves attributable to Parent Company IT and software costs 543.2 476.9 shareholders Total intangible assets 543.2 476.9 Share capital, 65 600 000 shares with a quotient value 82.0 82.0 of 1.25 SEK Tangible assets Other contributed capital 90.4 90.4 Land and buildings 329.8 358.1 Other reserves -54.6 -36.6 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 450.8 553.5 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 1,639.0 1,804.9 Right-of-use assets 30 2,059.9 0.0 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 6.2 6.6 Total tangible assets 2,840.5 911.6 Total equity 1,763.1 1,947.3 Other financial assets Non-current liabilities Securities held as fixed assets 12 252.3 225.3 Long-term lease liabilities 20, 30 1,672.5 0.0 Total other financial assets 252.3 225.3 Deferred tax liabilities 9 223.2 187.1 Other non-current liabilities 0.5 5.0 Non-current receivables Other non-current provisions 22 8.4 12.7 Deferred tax assets 9, 30 71.4 19.4 Total non-current liabilities 1,904.6 204.8 Other non-current receivables 19 4.0 2.0 Total non-current receivables 75.4 21.5 Current liabilities Current lease liabilities 20, 30 523.7 0.0 Current assets Accounts payable 20 551.2 637.3 Inventories 13 1,811.2 1,987.3 Tax liability 9 47.5 43.1 Accounts receivable 14 49.9 39.0 Other current liabilities 20 294.1 198.6 Tax assets 9 28.4 53.1 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 20 67.2 283.1 Other receivables 20 6.0 9.6 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17, 21 543.3 545.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15, 17, 30 95.5 147.8 Other provisions 22 87.7 116.9 Cash and cash equivalents 16 80.1 105.0 Total current liabilities 2,114.8 1,824.8 Total current assets 2,071.0 2,341.7 Total equity and liabilities 5,782.4 3,976.9 Total assets 5,782.4 3,976.9 58 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Group Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 Operating activities Financing activities Operating profit 549.2 94.0 Change in current liabilities, interest-bearing -215.9 283.1 Adjustment for non-cash items Repayment of lease liabilities -466.8 0.0 – depreciation 687.2 236.9 Change in longterm debt -4.5 0.0 – loss from sale/disposal of non current assets 31.4 56.5 Repurchase of own shares 0.0 0.0 – other non-cash items -28.7 38.7 Sales of own shares 11.0 0.0 Interest received 0.1 1.1 Capital contribution from minority 0.0 0.5 Interest paid -67.7 -3.3 Change in longterm assets -1.6 -0.6 Tax paid -68.9 -104.5 Dividend to shareholders -395.5 -395.1 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in Cash flow from financing activities -1,073.2 -112.0 1,102.7 319.5 working capital Cash flow for the year -20.3 -11.5 Cash flow from changes in working capital – accounts receivable -12.7 -5.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 105.0 115.8 – inventories 110.9 57.7 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -4.6 0.6 – other receivables -6.5 153.7 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 80.1 105.0 – accounts payable -83.4 -244.6 – other current interest-free operating liabilities 172.9 30.7 Cash flow from operating activities 1,283.9 312.0 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets -143.5 -104.9 Investments in tangible assets -60.8 -105.8 Investments in securities held as fixed assets -27.0 -0.8 Sale of equipment 0.3 0.1 Cash flow from investing activities -231.0 -211.4 59 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 18) Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 18) Income Income attributable attributable Other Profit to nonOther Profit to nonShare contributed Translation Hedging brought controlling Share contributed Translation Hedging brought controlling MSEK capital capital difference reserve forward interest Total MSEK capital capital difference reserve forward interest Total Opening balance at 1 May 2018 82.0 90.4 -40.6 -4.3 2,136.4 2,263.9 Opening balance at 1 May 2019 82.0 90.4 -39.3 2.7 1,804.9 6.6 1,947.3 Comprehensive income Change in financial reporting standard -160.6 -160.6 Profit for the year 72.7 -1.1 71.6 IFRS 16 Other comprehensive income Opening balance at 1 May 2019 82.0 90.4 -39.3 2.7 1,644.3 6.6 1,786.7 adjusted Cash-flow hedging after tax 7.0 7.0 Comprehensive income Exchange-rate differences 1.3 1.3 Profit for the year 376.3 -0.4 375.9 Remeasurement of defined-benefit penOther comprehensive income sion obligations Total other comprehensive income 1.3 7.0 8.3 Cash-flow hedging after tax 34.9 34.9 Total comprehensive income 1.3 7.0 72.7 -1.1 79.9 Exchange-rate differences -52.9 -52.9 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations Transactions with shareholders Total other comprehensive income -52.9 34.9 -18.0 Change in minority share, attributable to 7.1 7.1 Total comprehensive income -52.9 34.9 376.3 -0.4 357.9 non-controlling interests Acquisition of minority share, attributable to controlling interests Transactions with shareholders Employee stock options plan: value of Sales of own share 11.0 11.0 -2.7 -2.7 employees’ service Employee stock options plan: value of 2.9 2.9 Change in share, attributable to controlling employees’ service -6.4 -6.4 interests C/O Pegital Investment AB Change in share, attributable to controlling Capital contribution from minority 0.5 0.5 interests C/O Pegital Investment AB Dividend -395.1 -395.1 Capital contribution from minority Total transactions with shareholders -404.2 7.6 -396.6 Dividend -395.5 -395.5 Closing balance at 30 April 2019 82.0 90.4 -39.3 2.7 1,804.9 6.6 1,947.3 Total transactions with shareholders -381.6 -381.6 Closing balance at 30 April 2020 82.0 90.4 -92.2 37.6 1,639.0 6.2 1,763.1 60 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Parent company Income statement Comprehensive income MSEK Note 190501–200430 180501–190430 MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 1, 2 Profit for the year 175.1 285.6 Sales 23 6,958.8 6,787.8 Other comprehensive income, net after tax: Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -5,085.9 -4,978.5 Items that can later be reversed in the consolidated income statement: Gross profit 1,872.9 1,809.4 Profit/loss from hedging of net investments in foreign operations -0.3 -8.2 Comprehensive income for the year 174.8 277.4 Selling expenses 4,5,6 -1,457.0 -1,433.4 Administrative expenses 4,5,6,7 -177.0 -207.5 Other operating income 3 25.5 25.1 Other operating expenses 3 -25.9 -225.7 Operating profit 238.6 -32.1 Financial items Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 282.2 Interest income 8 1.0 2.4 Interest expense 8 -5.5 -5.1 Profit after financial items 234.1 247.4 Appropriations 26 -10.0 41.2 Profit before tax 224.1 288.7 Income tax 9 -49.0 -3.1 Profit for the year 175.1 285.6 Proposed dividend per share, SEK 11 6.25 61 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Parent company Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 20-04-30 19-04-30 MSEK Note 20-04-30 19-04-30 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Restricted equity IT and software costs 543.2 476.9 Share capital, 65 600 000 shares with a quotient value 82.0 82.0 Total intangible assets 543.2 476.9 of 1.25 Tangible assets Statutory reserve 106.8 106.8 Land and buildings 329.8 358.1 Development fond 27.8 22.4 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 252.7 297.3 Total restricted equity 216.6 211.2 Total tangible assets 582.5 655.4 Non-restricted equity Financial non-current assets Fair value fund -5.4 -6.6 Deferred tax assets 3.4 3.5 Profit brought forward 171.7 274.7 Securities held as fixed assets 12, 25 252.3 225.3 Profit for the year 175.1 285.6 Non-current receivables 3.1 0.8 Total non-restricted equity 341.4 553.6 Participations in Group companies 24 39.3 39.3 Total equity 558.0 764.8 Total financial non-current assets 298.1 268.9 Untaxed reserves 28 1,004.5 994.5 Total non-current assets 1,423.8 1,401.2 Provisions Current assets Other provisions 22 50.1 49.9 Inventories Total provisions 50.1 49.9 Merchandise 13 1,310.5 1,364.2 Non-current liabilities Total inventories 1,310.5 1,364.2 Other non-current liabilities 0.5 5.0 Current receivables Total non-current liabilities 0.5 5.0 Accounts receivable 14 23.9 20.6 Current liabilities Tax assets 28.4 52.9 Accounts payable 20 531.5 590.0 Receivables from Group companies 0.0 139.1 Liabilities to Group companies 247.9 0.0 Other receivables 4.7 0.8 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 67.2 283.1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15 56.7 82.7 Other current liabilities 62.6 82.7 Total current receivables 113.7 296.1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 21 349.0 324.9 Cash and bank balances 27 23.3 33.4 Total current liabilities 1,258.1 1,280.7 Total current assets 1,447.4 1,693.7 Total equity and liabilities 2,871.2 3,095.0 Total assets 2,871.2 3,095.0 62 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Parent company Cash flow statement Cash flow statement MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 MSEK 190501–200430 180501–190430 Operating activities Financing activities Operating profit 238.6 -32.1 Change in short term debt interest bearing -215.9 283.1 Adjustment for non-cash item Change in other long term receivables -4.5 -0.8 – depreciation 158.1 161.1 Change in long term receivables Group companies -32.9 187.9 – loss from sale/disposal of non-current assets 17.6 8.1 Repurchase of own shares 0.0 0.0 – other non-cash items 3.0 -3.5 Sales of own shares 11.0 0.0 Interest received 1.0 2.4 Repayments/Lending from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 Interest paid -5.5 -5.1 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 282.2 Tax paid -41.6 -64.0 Dividend to shareholders -395.5 -395.1 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in Cash flow from financing activities -637.8 357.3 371.2 66.9 working capital Cash flow for the year -9.6 -3.4 Cash flow from changes in working capital – accounts receivable -3.2 -2.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 33.4 36.9 – inventories 53.7 -36.6 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -0.6 -0.1 – other receivables 178.3 116.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23.3 33.4 – accounts payable -58.5 -239.3 – other current interest-free operating liabilities 282.7 -95.3 Cash flow from operating activities 824.3 -190.4 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets -143.5 -104.9 Investments in tangible assets -26.0 -54.7 Investments in securities held as fixed assets -27.0 -0.8 Investments in subsidiaries 0.0 -10.0 Sale of equipment 0.3 0.1 Cash flow from investing activities -196.1 -170.4 63 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Parent company Change in Parent Company equity MSEK Share capital Statutory reserve Development fund Total non-restricted equity Total equity Opening balance at 1 May 2018 82.0 106.8 15.8 680.7 885.3 Dividend -395.1 -395.1 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service -2.7 -2.7 Change of development fund 6.6 -6.6 Other comprehensive income 277.4 277.4 Closing balance at 30 April 2019 82.0 106.8 22.4 553.6 764.8 Opening balance at 1 May 2019 82.0 106.8 22.4 553.6 764.8 Dividend -395.5 -395.5 Sales of own shares 11.0 11.0 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service 2.9 2.9 Change of development fund 5.4 -5.4 Other comprehensive income 174.8 174.8 Closing balance at 30 April 2020 82.0 106.8 27.8 341.4 558.0 64 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies not yet utilised were deemed of material significance. the lessee to extend a lease or terminate it in advance IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet come This means that if the estimates and assumptions made are to be included in the term if it is deemed reasonably into effect are expected to have a material impact on Compliance with standards and legislation were to significantly differ from the actual outcome, the certain that the option will be exercised. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements for Clas Ohlson effect on the financial statements could be considerathe assessment affected the amount of the lease liabilhave been prepared in accordance with the Annual Acble. In connection with the impairment testing of intanity and the right-of-use asset recognised for the lease. Consolidated financial statements counts Act, RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules gible assets, the carrying amount is to be compared Refer to Note 30 for a more detailed description of the The consolidated financial statements pertain to the for Groups and International Financial Reporting Standwith the recoverable amount, which is the highest of the assessments made by the Group as regards the length Parent Company and all companies over which the ards (IFRS) and interpretations from IFRS Interpretations asset’s net selling price and value in use. After testing of lease terms. Parent Company directly or indirectly has controlling Committee (IFRS IC) as approved by the EU. The finanand assessing the value in use, no impairment requireinfluence. The Group controls a company when it is cial statements were prepared in accordance with the ments were deemed to exist regarding the company’s New standards and interpretations that come into exposed to or is entitled to variable return from its holdcost method, apart from financial assets and liabilities investment in intangible assets that have not yet started effect in 2019/20 and after ings in the company and has the opportunity to impact (including derivative instruments), measured at fair value. to be used. A description of new or amended standards and new the return through its influence in the company. interpretations that had an impact on the Group’s The accounting policies for the Group indicated below Securities held as fixed assets 2019/20 financial statements is provided below. The purchase method has been applied in preparing the have been applied consistently to all periods presented Securities held as fixed assets are measured at fair valconsolidated financial statements. Inter-Group transacin the consolidated financial statements, unless otherue according to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy since New accounting standard IFRS 16 Leases tions, balance sheet items, as well as unrealised gains wise stated. The Group’s accounting policies have been they are based on the adjusted value of a transaction in The Group applies IFRS 16 Leases from 1 May 2019. and losses on transactions between Group companies applied consistently to the reporting and consolidation a non-active market. Applying this standard means a change in accounting are eliminated. Whenever appropriate, the accounting of the Parent Company and subsidiaries. for leases, since leases that were previously recognised policies have been amended to guarantee consistent apRestructuring reserves as operating leases (in accordance with IAS 17) are plication of the Group’s policies. Estimates and assumptions Restructuring costs include the necessary retirement recognised as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability Preparing the financial statements in accordance with of assets and other items that do not affect cash flow, instead. The right-of-use asset reflects the right to use The consolidated financial statements include the wholly IFRS requires management to make judgements, estias well as estimated costs for redundancies and other the premises and the lease liability represents an obligaowned subsidiaries Clas Ohlson AS, Clas Ohlson Oy, mates and assumptions that impact upon the applicadirect expenses related to the discontinuation of operation to make lease payments. The effect of the transition Clas Ohlson Ltd (UK), Clas Ohlson GmbH, Clas Ohlson tion of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts tions. Cost estimates are based on detailed action plans to IFRS 16 is presented in Note 35. Ltd (Shanghai) and the partially owned C/O P investfor assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These are that are expected to improve the Group’s cost strucments AB (owned share 30.5 per cent). based on historical experience and a number of other ture and productivity. Historical outcomes from similar No other amendments to IFRS or IFRIC interpretations factors that appear reasonable under the prevailing conevents in previous action plans are normally used as that came into effect in 2019/20 had a material impact Segment accounting ditions. Any changes to estimates are recognised in the the basis for the calculations to minimise the uncertainon the consolidated financial statements. Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, period in which the change is made if the change has ty factor. Reserves for restructuring amounted to 31.9 ­Norway, Finland and Outside Nordic countries as well only impacted upon this period, or in the period in which MSEK (49.3) at year-end, of which 8.4 MSEK (12.7) was New and amended standards that have not yet come as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the change is made and future periods if the change imclassified as long term. into effect the Group-wide functions in Sweden that assist sales pacts upon both the current period and future periods. The new or amended IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that organisations with purchasing, distribution, marketing, Leases come into effect in the next financial year have not been management and other support. A large portion of the Intangible assets In a number of cases, the Group’s leases have the opapplied in advance to the preparation of these finanGroup’s value is generated in the Group-wide segment. For the Group, the estimates and assumptions made in tion for the Group to extend the lease or terminate it cial statements. There are no plans to apply future new The Group’s internal pricing was adapted to these preconjunction with impairment testing of intangible assets in advance. Under IFRS 16, extension options entitling standards or amendments in advance. None of the requisites. 65 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Translation of foreign currencies when the Group company sells a good to a customer Employee benefits or loss in the period in which the plan is changed. Net Functional currency and reporting currency in a store. The transaction price falls due for payment Group companies have different plans for remunerainterest is calculated by applying the discount rate at Items included in the financial statements for the various immediately when the customer purchases the good tion after retirement, including defined-benefit and dethe start of the period to the defined-benefit net liability units in the Group are measured in the currency used in and receives the good in the store. Regarding the refined-contribution pension plans. or asset. The defined-benefit costs are divided into the the financial environment where each company is most maining approximately 6 per cent of income relating to following categories: active (functional currency). The consolidated financial online shopping, income is recognised when control of Pension obligations statements use Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the rethe goods is passed to the customer, which takes place A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan • service costs (including service costs for the current porting currency for the Group. All sums, unless otheron the delivery date. Variable remuneration, such as according to which the Group pays set amounts to a period, service costs in prior periods and gains and wise stated, are rounded to the nearest million Swedish discounts and price reductions, are recognised in both separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or inforlosses pertaining to reductions and/or regulations) kronor plus one decimal point. cases through deductions from the selling price directly mal obligations to pay additional amounts if this legal • net interest expense or net interest income when the transaction takes place in store or as a deentity does not have sufficient assets to pay all remu• revaluations Transactions in foreign currency duction on the invoice for online shopping. Retail sales neration to employees corresponding to the employTransactions in foreign currencies are translated to the usually take place using cash or via invoice with payees’ service during the current or previous periods. A The first two categories are recognised in profit or loss functional currency at the exchange rates that apply ment terms of 30 days. defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is as personnel costs (service costs) and net financial on the transaction date. Exchange-rate gains and lossnot a defined-contribution plan. A typical defined-benitems (net interest expense). Gains and losses related es arising from the payment of such transactions and Clas Ohlson’s customers can choose to become a efit plan stipulates the amount of the pension benefit to reductions and regulations are recognised as service from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in member of the Club Clas loyalty program where cusan employee will receive after retirement, usually based costs from prior periods. Revaluations are recognised foreign currency at the rate prevailing on the balance tomer collect points on their purchases. Earning bonus on one or more factors such as age, service period in other comprehensive income. The defined-benefit sheet date are recognised in profit or loss. An exception points means that customers have the opportunity to and salary. In the Parent Company, there are both depension obligation is recognised in the balance sheet is when transactions represent hedging that fulfils the utilise points saved in the form of bonus cheques as fined-contribution and definedbenefit pension plans. corresponding to current surplus or deficit related to conditions for hedge accounting of cash flows, in which payment in the future. A contract liability for the points However, in accordance with statement UFR 10, the the Group’s defined-benefit obligations. Any surplus is case gains/losses are recognised in other comprehenis recognised at the time of sale. Not all issued bonus defined-benefit ITP pension plan (Alecta) is treated as recognised only to the extent that it corresponds to the sive income. For derivatives, refer to the section on cheques are redeemed which is why each sale in the a defined-contribution pension plan. Defined-benefit present value of future repayments from the respective financial instruments. loyalty program is reduced by the fair value with respect pension plans are available in the Norwegian subsidipension plan or future reductions in premium payments to future redemption of bonus cheques, considering the ary. Regarding defined-benefit pension plans, the cost to the plan. Group companies current degree of redemption. The member’s probable of the pension benefit is determined based on actuarial Results and financial position for all Group companies, redemption of bonus cheques in the future is also taken calculations according to the so-called Projected Unit Remuneration in the event of termination of translated to the Group’s reporting currency as follows: into account. Earnings are recognised through a reducCredit Method. Revaluations, including actuarial gains employment a) assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets tion in income during the earnings period with a correand losses, effects of changes in the asset ceiling and Remuneration in the event of termination of employment translated to the rate on the balance sheet date: sponding provision in the balance sheet. Provisions for the return on the plan assets (excluding the interest is paid when an employee’s employment is terminated by b) income and expenses for each of the income stateopen purchases and gift vouchers are based on historcomponents that is recognised in profit or loss) are the Group before the normal pension date or when the ments translated to the average currency rate and ical data. Clas Ohlson also has sales of other services recognised directly in the balance sheet with income employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for c) all exchange-rate differences that arise are recognised for which income is recognised when the service has or cost corresponding to the change for the period in such remuneration. The Group recognises redundancy in other comprehensive income. been completed. The portion of such services of Clas the statement of other comprehensive income in the remuneration when the Group no longer has the opporOhlson’s total sales is not material. period in which they arise. Revaluations recognised in tunity to withdraw the offer of remuneration. In cases Revenue other comprehensive income affect profit brought forwhere the company has issued an offer to encourage The Group conducts retail operations, whereby a large Interest income pertains to interest on bank balances. ward and are not reclassified to the income statement. voluntary redundancy, redundancy remuneration is calshare of all sales (about 94 per cent) is made through Income is recognised in the period to which the interest Service costs from prior periods are recognised in profit culated based on the number of employees expected to store sales. Income from sales of goods is recognised pertains. 66 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE accept the offer. Benefits that mature more than Loan expenses Other development costs, which do not meet these crition is based upon the estimated useful life of the com12 months after the end of the reporting period are General and specific loan expenses that are directly teria, are expensed when they arise. Development costs ponents. The following depreciation periods are applied: discounted to the present value. attributable to purchasing or what is known as qualthat were previously expenses are not recognised as an ified assets, which are assets that necessarily take a asset in subsequent periods. Intangible assets 3-10 years Share-based payments significant amount of time to complete for intended use Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5-15 years The Group has a number of share-based remuneraor sale are recognised as part of the cost of these asDevelopment costs for software recognised as an asset Buildings 20-33 years tion plans that are settled with shares and whereby the sets. Capitalisation ceases when all activities required are amortised of the software’s estimated useful life. Land improvements 20 years company receives services from the employees in return to complete the asset for its intended use or sale have Leashold improvements 7-10 years for the Group’s equity instruments (matching shares and been completed. There are currently no qualified assets. Impairment of non-financial assets options). The fair value of the service period that entitles Other loan expenses are charged to profit during the Intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life or New acquisitions and replacements are capitalised, employees to allocation of matching shares and options period they arise. intangible assets not ready for use, are not depreciatwhile maintenance and repair costs are expensed. The is expensed. The total amount to be expensed is based ed but are tested annually for any impairment requireassets’ residual value and useful life are tested at the on the fair value of the allocated matching shares and Intangible assets ments. Depreciable assets are assessed to determine end of each reporting period and adjusted as needed. options: Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed any decrease in value resulting from events or changes An asset’s carrying amount is immediately impaired to when they arise. Development costs directly attributain circumstances indicating that the carrying amount its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount • including all market-related conditions (e.g. target ble to the development and testing of identifiable and might not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recogexceeds its assessed recoverable amount. As assets share price) unique software products controlled by the Group are nised in the amount by which the carrying amount of are sold or disposed of, the cost and appurtenant ac• including e.g. profitability, target for sales increases recognised as intangible assets when the following crithe asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recovcumulated depreciation are written off. Any profit or loss and that the employee remains with the company for a teria have been fulfilled: erable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset is recognised. All of Clas Ohlson’s properties are ownstipulated period and, less selling expenses and value in use. In assessing er-occupied properties. • including the impact of the conditions that do not • It is technically possible to complete the software so impairment loss, assets are grouped at the lowest levconstitute vesting conditions (e.g. requirement that emthat it can be used els at which there are separate identifiable cash flows Inventories ployees must save or retain the shares for a stipulated • The company’s intention is to complete the software (cash-generating units). For assets that have been preInventories have been valued at the lower of cost and period). and use or sell it viously impaired, testing is conducted on each balance net selling price on the balance sheet date, applying • The conditions for using the software exist sheet date on whether reversal should be done. the “first in, first out” principle. Net selling price is the At the end of each reporting period, the Group re-exam• How the software generates probable financial advanestimated selling price in operating activities less selling ines its assessments of the number of shares that are tages can be proven Non-current assets expenses. Inter-company profits arising from delivery expected to be vested based on the non-market-based • Adequate technological, financial and other resources Non-current assets are recognised at cost less accubetween companies forming part of the Group are devesting conditions and service conditions. Any possible for completing the development and for using or sellmulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment ducted. Necessary provision for obsolescence has been deviation to the original assessments resulting from the ing the software are available, and losses. Cost includes the purchase price and expenses made. Inventory expenses include transfers from other reappraisal will be recognised in profit or loss and the • The costs attributable to the software over the course directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it into comprehensive income of any gains/losses from cashcorresponding adjustments made in equity. of its development can be reliably calculated. the position and condition necessary for it to be utilised flow hedging fulfilling the conditions for hedge accountin accordance with the purpose of the acquisition. Deing, attributable to purchases of goods. The social security contributions arising from the alloDirectly attributable costs are capitalised as a portion preciation is based on the cost and estimated useful cation of options will be regarded as an integral part of the software and include costs for employees and a life of the assets. Straight-line depreciation is used for Receivables of the allocation and the expense will be treated as a reasonable share of indirect costs. all assets. Land is not depreciated. The Group applies Receivables with a due date more than 12 months after cash-regulated share-based remuneration. component depreciation, which means that depreciathe balance sheet date are recognised as non-current 67 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE assets, while others as regarded as current assets. Resets (hold to collect and sell) and the contractual terms The carrying amount of all financial assets and liabilities plified approach). Cash and cash equivalents and receivceivables are recognised at the amount expected to be of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash is deemed to be a good approximation of their fair valables from Group companies are encompassed by the paid after individual testing. flows that are solely payments of principal and interest ue, unless otherwise specifically stated. general approach for impairment. The exception for low on the principal amount outstanding, the asset is recogcredit risk is applied to cash and cash equivalents. Accounts receivables are initially measured at fair value nised at fair value through other comprehensive income. Amortised cost and effective interest method and then at amortised cost applying the effective interAmortised cost for a financial asset is the amount at The Group’s accounts receivable encompassed by the est rate method, less any provision for depreciation. All other business models (other) for which the objective which the financial asset is measured on initial recogsimplified approach for impairment. The expected credit is speculation, held for trading or where the cash flow nition less the principal amount, plus the accumulated losses on accounts receivable are calculated using a Financial instruments characteristics exclude other business models entail depreciation with the effective interest method of any reserve matrix based on past events, current conditions The Group applies IFRS 9, Financial Instruments. The recognition at fair value through profit or loss. difference between the principal amount and principal and forecasts of future economic conditions. standard is divided into three parts: classification and amount outstanding, adjusted for any impairment. The measurement, hedge accounting and impairment. The Group applies the hold to collect business model recognised gross amount for a financial asset is the amThe Group defines default as if it is deemed improbable for all financial assets. The financial assets are initially ortised cost of a financial asset before adjustments for that the company will meet its obligations due to such A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised any loss allowance. indicators as financial difficulties and missed payments. balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the cost by applying the effective interest method, less Regardless of this, default is deemed to exist when paycontractual terms of the instrument. A financial asset is any provision for depreciation. However, the valuation The effective interest is the rate that on discounting all ment is more than 90 days late. The Group writes off a derecognised from the balance sheet when the contracmethod is not applied to the Group’s securities held as future expected cash flows over the expected term rereceivable when no possibility of collecting further cash tual right to receive cash flows from the asset cease, are non-current assets which are instead measured at fair sults in the initial carrying amount of the financial asset flows is deemed to exist. regulated or when the Group loses control of the asset. A value through profit or loss. or the financial liability. financial liability, or portion of a financial liability, is derecCash-flow hedging ognised from the balance sheet when the contractual Financial liabilities are measured at fair value through Impairment The effective portion of changes in the fair value for a obligation is met or extinguished in another manner. profit or loss unless they are held for trading or if they The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected derivative instrument identified as the cash-flow hedge are initially identified as liabilities measured at fair value credit losses on financial assets measured at amortised portion and which meets the conditions for hedge acClassification and measurement through profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are meascost. On each balance sheet date, the Group recogcounting is recognised in other comprehensive income. Financial assets are classified based on the business ured at amortised cost. All of the company’s financial nises the change in expected credit losses since initial The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective portion is model under which the asset is held and the characliabilities are measured at amortised cost except derivarecognition in profit or loss. For all financial assets, the recognised immediately in profit or loss. teristics of the cash flows generated by the asset. If the tives that are measured at fair value. Group measures the loss allowance at an amount corfinancial asset is held under a business model whose responding to the 12-month expected credit losses. For Hedging of net investments objective is to collect the contractual cash flows (hold to Fair value of financial instruments financial instruments for which the credit risk has sigThe hedging of net investments in foreign operations is collect) and the contractual terms of the financial asset The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded in nificantly increased since initial recognition, a reserve is recognised in a similar manner as in the case of cashgive rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solean active market is determined based on the quoted recognised based on full lifetime expected credit losses flow hedging. ly payments of principal and interest on the principal market prices. The fair value of other financial assets (general approach). amount outstanding, the asset is recognised at amorand liabilities is determined in accordance with generally The portion of gain or loss attributable to a hedging intised cost. accepted measurement models, such as discounting of Simplifications are permissible for accounts receivable strument viewed as an effective hedge is recognised in future cash flows and the use of information obtained entailing that the Group directly recognises expected other comprehensive income. The gain or loss attributaIf, instead, the objective of the business model is to both from current market transactions. credit losses for the remaining lifetime of the assets (simble to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. collect the contractual cash flows and sell financial as68 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognised risk, the term of the lease, currency and the quality of the consolidated income statement as an operating tain to taxes by the same tax authority and pertain to the in profit or loss when nonSwedish operations are partly the underlying asset to be provided as collateral. expense straight-line over the lease term. In cases in same tax subject or different tax subjects and for which or totally divested. which the Group was the lessor, income was recogthere is a plan to settle the balance through net payments. The rate is determined based on publicly disclosed nised as income in the period to which the leasing perCash and cash equivalents swap yield curves in each currency to which a margin is tained. Depreciation was recognised in operating profit. Accounts payable Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immeadded that reflects the Group’s credit rating, the quality Accounts payable are the obligation to pay for products diately available balances at banks and equivalent instiof the underlying asset to be provided as collateral and Current and deferred income tax or services that were acquired in the operating activities tutions, as well as short-term investments with a term of all guarantees. Lease payments include the following: Tax expenses for the period include current and defrom suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as curless than three months from the time of acquisition. • Fixed lease payments after deductions of rental and ferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit or loss except rent liabilities if they fall due within one year or earlier. If other discounts. when the tax pertains to items recognised in other comnot, they are recognised as non-current liabilities. Leases • Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a prehensive income or directly in equity. In such cases, Principles applied from 1 May 2019 rate the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive inAccounts payable are initially measured at fair value and The Group mainly leases store, office and warehouse come and equity. thereafter at amortised cost applying the effective interpremises. From 1 May 2019, the Group recognises Non-lease components are not included in the lease payest method. leases as both a right-of-use asset, which represents ments. Group has leases with sales-based rent levels. The current tax expense is calculated based on the tax the right to use the underlying asset, and a lease liabilSales-based rent is a variable payment that is not based regulations established or established in practice on the Borrowing ity, which represents the obligation to pay lease payon an index or a rate and thus is not included in the lease balance sheet date in the countries in which the Parent Borrowing is initially measured at fair value, net after ments. Lease payments are divided between repayment liability. Sales-based rent is expensed in the period to Company and its subsidiaries are active and generate transaction expenses. Borrowing is thereafter recogand interest on the lease liability. which the rent applies. The lease liability for the Group’s taxable income. Management regularly evaluates the nised at amortised cost and any difference between the premises with indexed rent is calculated on the rent that statements made in the income tax return pertaining amount received (net after transaction expenses) and All leases are measured in accordance with the cost applied at the end of each reporting period. At this point to situations where applicable tax rules are subject to the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss method, which entails that the right-of-use assets are in time, the liability is adjusted, with a corresponding adinterpretation. When deemed suitable, management distributed over the borrowing period, applying the efmeasured at cost less accumulated depreciation and justment to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset. makes provisions for amounts that will probably be paid fective interest method. impairment and any adjustments due to remeasurement When the assessment of the lease term is updated, the to the tax authority. of the lease liability that reflects a revision or modificaright-of-use asset and lease liability are adjusted correCharges paid for credit facilities are recognised as tion of the lease. The remeasurement amount is recogspondingly. Changes to the lease term take place when Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences transaction expenses for borrowing insofar as it is probnised as an adjustment of the right-of-use asset. Rightthe final cancellation date has passed or if there is a sigarising between the taxable value of assets and liaable that the credit will be utilised in full or in part. In of-use assets are depreciated straight-line over the nificant event or a significant change in circumstances bilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated such cases, charges are recognised when the credit lease term. that is within the control of the Group and that affect the financial statements. has been utilised. When there is no evidence that the assessment of the lease term. Leases where the undercredit will be utilised in full or in part, the charges will be The lease liability is measured at the present value of lying asset has a value of less than 50,000 SEK when Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is recognised as advance payment for financial services the future lease payments on the lease commencement new and leases with a term of less than 12 months are probable that future taxable surplus will be available, and distributed over the term of current credit facilities. date. The lease payments are discounted using the rate expensed straight-line over the term. against which the temporary differences can be utilised. implicit in the lease, if this rate is readily determinable. Borrowing is classified as current liabilities if the Group Otherwise the incremental borrowing rate is used. The Principles applied until 30 April 2019 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there are is not unconditionally entitled to defer payment of the latter is the case for most of the Group’s leases. The All leases, in which the Group was the lessee were legal offsetting rights for the particular tax assets and liadebt for at least 12 months after the balance sheet incremental borrowing rate reflects the Group’s credit classified as operating leases and were recognised in bilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities perdate. 69 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Provisions The financial reports are rounded to the nearest million Tax Other Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet among Swedish kronor plus one decimal point. The accounting The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves are taxable The financial reports are stated in MSEK with one decicurrent and non-current liabilities when the Group has a policies for the Parent Company have been consistently temporary differences. Due to the connection between mal point, unless otherwise stipulated. Rounding off can legal or informal obligation resulting from an event that applied to all periods presented in the Parent Comparecognition and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities atresult in certain tables not adding up. has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of resourcny’s financial statements. tributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised es will be required to discharge the commitment and a in legal entities. According to Swedish practice, the Note 2 Financial risks reliable estimate can be made of the amount. Provisions Amended accounting policies in RFR 2 amendments in untaxed reserves are recognised in the are made for open buy, unredeemed gift cards, estimatThe amendments in RFR 2 that impacted the Parent income statement in individual companies under the The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks ed future guarantee commitments, bonus points to club Company’s financial statements 2019/20 are presented heading “Appropriations”. In the balance sheet, the through its operations: market risk (including currency members as well as for restructuring of the store netbelow. accumulated value of the reserves is recognised under risk and interest-rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and work in the UK. For further information see note 22. the heading “Untaxed reserves”, whereby 22.0 per cent capital risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy Due to the connection between accounting and taxa(attributable to appropriations reserved in the 2018/19 focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and Cash-flow statement tion, the IFRS 16 rules are not applied in legal entities. financial year and earlier) and 21.4 per cent (attributable endeavours to minimise potential unfavourable effects The cash-flow statement is prepared according to the For companies choosing to apply the exemption, rules to appropriations reserved in 2019/20) can be regarded on the Group’s financial results. The Group’s Board has indirect method. The recognised cash flow comprises are introduced instead that encompass the principles as a deferred tax liability and 78.0 per cent and 78.6 per prepared a financial policy, which is updated and adoponly transactions that entail receipts or disbursements. applied to the accounting of leases for lessees. The cent, respectively, as restricted equity. ted at least once a year, to control and manage finanIn addition to cash or bank balances, current financial amendments in RFR 2 regarding IFRS 16 are to be apcial risks. The financial policy stipulates the framework investments that are subject only to an insignificant risk plied to financial years beginning on or after 1 January Loan expenses and guidelines for managing financial risks and how the of fluctuation in value and have a remaining term of less 2019. The Parent Company applies the exemption from Loan expenses are charged to profit in the period in Group is to relate to the financial markets. It states the than three months from the time of acquisition are clasthe application of IFRS 16, meaning that the Parent which they arise. responsibilities and authorities in the area and how the sified as cash and cash equivalents. Company’s leases are recognised straight-line over the Group is to act as regards financial matters. term, which essentially does not entail any change comShares in subsidiaries Parent Company accounting policies pared with previous policies. Shares in the subsidiaries are recognised at cost less Currency risk The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts deductions for any impairment. Currency risk relates to risk that affects income statein accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Amendments accounting policies to RFR 2 that ment, balance sheet and cash flow negatively due to and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Enhave not yet come into effect Financial instruments changes in currency exchange rate. Currency risk is tities, of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. This Senior management does not expect that amendments The regulations pertaining to financial guarantee agreedivided into translation exposure related to valuation of means that the Parent Company, in the annual acto RFR 2 that have not yet come into effect to have ments are not applied with respect to guarantee agreeassets and liabilities in foreign currency and transaction counts of the legal entity, has to apply all EU-approved any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial ments for subsidiaries. Otherwise, IFRS 9 is applied in exposure related to sales and purchases transactions in IFRS standards and interpretations as far as possible statements on initial application. the Parent Company. foreign currency. A significant portion of accounts payaunder the terms of the Annual Accounts Act and taking ble comprises liabilities in foreign currencies and is theinto account the connection between accounting and Classification and format Leases refore subject to currency risks. In the Group, the princitaxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions The income statement and balance sheet follow the forLease payments are recognised as a cost straight-line pal currencies used in purchases are hedged in order to from and additions to IFRS that are to be made. mat of the Annual Accounts Act. This means certain difover the term unless another systematic basis is more reduce any currency risks, in accordance with the finanferences compared with the consolidated financial staterepresentative of the pattern of the user’s benefit. cial policy. ments, for example, items in the balance sheet are more specified and sub-items have different names in equity. 70 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE About 50 per cent of the company’s purchases is made Refinancing and liquidity risks Maturity structure financial liabilities Credit risk in currencies other than SEK. The principal currenciRefinancing and liquidity risk pertain to the risk that Clas <3 3-12 1-2 3-5 >5 Credit risk refers to financial risk that the Group Group mos mos year year year es for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), Hong Kong Ohlson is unable to receive loans or meet payment obis exposed to when a counterparty fails to fulfil its Other long-term dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). In addition, movements of ligations due to insufficient liquidity. Refinancing requireprovisions 2.2 4.5 1.8 financial obligations to the Group. The vast majority SEK against the Norwegian krone (NOK) are very signiments are regularly reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s central Liabilities to credit 67.2 of credit risks and credit losses are attributable to institution ficant to the Group because about 40 per cent of sales finance function, which is responsible for external borholdings of cash and cash equivalents and accounts Lease liabilities * 181.6 408.2 484.9 999.9 418.4 take place in Norway. Net exposure to EUR is low. berowing. Refinancing requirements are primarily continreceivable. Accounts receivable are characterised Other current liabilities 632.3 cause the company has higher sales in EUR due to its gent on market trends and investment plans. The aim of by a very low risk, as each sub-item is small and the Accounts payable 551.2 expansion in the Finnish and German market. The table the principles for investing cash and cash equivalents is Group’s credit policy is restrictive. The credit policy Total 1,365.1 475.4 487.1 1,004.3 420.1 below shows how profit is affected by changes in the to safeguard the Group’s short and long-term solvency. states the conditions for credit assessments, credit principal currencies (excluding hedging). Investments may only be made in instruments with low * Undiscounted cash flows monitoring, requirements and handling insolvency. The credit risk and high liquidity, meaning investments that Group’s customers are subject to credit checks for Hedging takes place on a monthly basis with maturities can be converted into cash and cash equivalents at any Interest-rate risk which information about customers’ financial position of three to nine months for half of the expected flow in given point in time. The Group had bank balances only Interest-rate risk entails how changes in interest levels is obtained from various credit information companies Norwegian kroner (NOK) and US dollars (USD). with Nordic banks on 30 April 2020. See also Note 27. impact the Group’s net financial items and how the and limits are set individually per customer. Taking these value of financial instruments varies depending on measures ensures that risk exposure and credit losses Sensitivity analysis regarding currency risk Granted credit limits changes in market interest rates. All of the Group’s are kept at a commercially acceptable level. 2019/20 loans that bear interest have short fixed-interest Group 2020-04-30 2019-04-30 Impact on profit before periods. The Group has assessed that loans with The Group uses a matrix model based on historical Currency Change, % tax, MSEK Overdrafts 450 200 short fixed-interest periods provide the lowest risk confirmed credit losses to calculate expected credit NOK +/5 +/102 Credit facility 550 550 and financing expenses over time. Interest-rate risk is losses on accounts receivable. The losses are then USD +/5 -/+ 70 Total credit limits granted 1,000 750 also minimised by distributing credit lines over several adjusted to include current and forward-looking HKD +/5 -/+ 3 Appropriated credit lines 67 283 different loans and maturity dates. A certain level of information that could impact customers’ ability to EUR +/5 -/+ 8 Unspent credit lines 933 467 working capital is also ensured in the Group’s currency pay the receivable. The outcome shows that the loss GBP +/5 +/0 Available bank balances 80 105 accounts to optimise the levels. allowance on the closing date does not total a material Refinancing reserve 1,013 572 amount and thus has not been recognised. Cash and cash equivalents are also exposed to currency risk since a The effect on interest expense during the forthcoming certain proportion of the funds is invested in foreign currencies. 12-month period in the event of a 1-percentage-point Age analysis of accounts receivable Group increase/decrease in interest rates on interest-bearing Accounts receivable not due 47.9 liabilities amounts to +/20.7 MSEK (including IFRS Accounts receivable due <1 month 0.1 16) (2.1). The effect on interest income during the same Accounts receivable due 1-3 months 0.2 period and under the same conditions for interestAccounts receivable due 3-6 months 0.2 bearing assets amounts to +/0.6 MSEK (0.3). Accounts receivable due 6-12 months 0.2 Accounts receivable due >12 months 1.2 Total 49.9 71 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Cash and cash equivalents are invested in various bank Note 3 Other operating income and operating expenses Note 4 Depreciation Note 5 Expenses by type of cost accounts. The counterparties’ solvency is deemed to Group Parent Company be favourable and credit risk is thus deemed to be very Group 2019/20 2018/19 The item “Cost of goods sold” includes all costs inlow. The total liquidity risk comprises cash and cash 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Depreciation broken down by type of asset curred in conveying the goods to the distribution centre equivalents and unutilised overdraft facilities. Other operating income Depreciation on leased assets 471.6 0.0 and subsequently to the store shelf, such as product Rental income 25.2 24.9 25.2 24.9 Intangible assets 61.9 48.7 costs, freight to the distribution centre and stores, cusCapital risk Profit on sale or disposal of tanLand and buildings 28.3 28.7 toms duty, environmental charges and handling costs at 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 Capital risk refers to the ability of the group to maintain gible assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 125.5 159.5 the distribution centre and stores. The item “Selling exan optimal capital structure that might negatively affect Other operating income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 687.3 236.9 penses” includes primarily stores costs as well as payTotal 25.9 25.1 25.4 25.1 the result of the group. Capital risk is regarded as low Depreciation broken down by function roll costs, rents, marketing and costs for the sales-rebecause the Group had a low portion of liabilities at the Cost of goods sold 77.1 82.3 lated support function at the head office. The item “AdOther operating expenses Selling expenses 598.9 147.2 end of the financial year and an equity/assets ratio of 51 ministrative expenses” includes costs for other support Leasing expenses -25.9 -23.7 -25.9 -23.7 Administrative expenses 11.2 7.4 per cent exclusive IFRS 16. functions at the head office. Loss on sale or disposal of tanTotal 687.3 236.9 gible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The goal of the Group’s capital structure is to be able to Restructuring costs 0.0 -210.0 0.0 -201.9 Payroll expenses including social security expenses durcontinue to report a favourable return to shareholders, Total -25.9 -233.7 -25.9 -225.7 ing the financial year totalled 2,143.9 MSEK (2,070.6) Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 value for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal in the Group and 1,367.5 MSEK (1,261.6) in the Parent Depreciation by type of asset capital structure to ensure that capital costs are Company. Intangible assets 61.9 48.7 minimised. The capital structure can be adapted to Land and buildings 28.3 28.7 meet the requirements that arise by altering the Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 67.9 83.6 Depreciation during the financial year totalled 687.3 dividend to shareholders, buying back shares, issuing Total 158.1 161.1 MSEK (236.9) in the Group and 158.1 MSEK (161.1) in new shares or disposing of assets in a bid to reduce Depreciation broken down by function the Parent Company. liabilities. The assessment of capital requirements Cost of goods sold 73.3 82.3 is conducted using relevant key ratios such as the Selling expenses 77.1 71.4 relationship between net debt and equity. Administrative expenses 7.6 7.4 Total 158.1 161.1 72 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits Remuneration of Board members, presidents and Gender distribution on the Board among the members 2019/20 2018/19 other senior management elected by the AGM in the past financial year was five 2019/20 2018/19 Defined Defined men and three women. In percentage terms, the districontriDefined contriDefined Salaries and other remuneration Parent Company 1,018.8 917.4 Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 butioin is 62.5 per cent men and 37.5 per cent women. Group bution benefit bution benefit Pension expenses for senior Salaries and other remuneration 33.8 31.4 Subsidiaries 667.0 692.8 management Group total 1,685.8 1,610.3 – of which, variable remuneration 6.4 4.3 Remuneration of Senior Management Lotta Lyrå, CEO 2.5 0.0 2.3 0.0 Pension expenses 5.8 5.3 Remuneration paid to the CEO and other members of Other senior management (10 individuals and 10 individuals in Number of individuals in Group 1 17 18 senior management is made up of basic salary, variable 2018/19) 3.8 0.0 5.5 0.0 2019/20 2018/19 remuneration and pension contributions. Ten individuals, Management total 6.2 0.0 7.9 0.0 Social of which, Social of which, Group 2019/20 2018/19 together with the CEO, comprise senior management security pension security pension expenses expenses expenses expenses Salaries and other remuneration 38.4 37.7 during the financial year. Social security expenses – of which, variable remuneration 7.2 4.6 Parent Company 348.8 76.7 344.2 67.5 Pension expenses 6.2 7.9 For the composition of senior management at 30 April Under the contract of employment with the acting CEO, Subsidiaries 109.3 38.9 116.2 39.2 Number of individuals in Group1 19 20 2020, see page 54-55. the mutual period of notice is six months. Six months’ Group total 458.1 115.6 460.4 106.6 salary is payable should employment be terminated by 2019/20 2018/19 1 The composition of the Senior Management includes 11 persons (11). the company. Applicable salary and benefits are payable Vari. remu. Vari. remu. during the period of notice. The retirement age is 65. Basic BeneBasic BeneGroup salary STI LTI1 fits salary STI LTI1 fits Of the Parent Company’s pension expenses, 2.5 MSEK Board remuneration Salaries paid to (2.3) pertained to the Group’s Board and CEO. Of the Fees are paid to the members of the Board according senior management Salary and other remuneration payable to the CEO are subsidiaries’ pension expenses 0.4 MSEK (2.6) perto AGM resolutions. Board members who are employed Lotta Lyrå, CEO 7.0 1.7 0.6 0.2 6.7 1.6 -0.1 0.2 decided by the Board and discussed by a Remuneratained to presidents of subsidiaries. in the company do not receive director fees. No penOther senior mantion Committee appointed within the Board. Salary is agement (10 individsions or other incentive programs are paid to the comuals and 10 individureviewed at the end of each financial year. In the Group, expenses for defined-contribution pany’s Board. als in 2018/19) 18.9 3.7 1.2 1.0 20.5 3.1 -0.2 1.0 pensions amounted to 101.8 MSEK (93.1) and deManagement total 25.9 5.5 1.8 1.2 27.1 4.7 -0.3 1.2 Salaries and other remuneration for other Senior Manfined-benefit pensions to 0.0 MSEK (0.0). No director fees were paid in the subsidiaries. agement are decided by the CEO, supported by the Remuneration Committee within the framework decided 2019/20 2018/19 The Parent Company only has defined-contribution LTI (Long term incentive program) pertains to reported cost/cost re1 by the Board. Director Committee Director Committee pension plans (including Alecta) for which the year’s exParent Company fees fees fees fees duction for LTI 2017. LTI 2018 och LTI 2019. See description below penses was 62.9 MSEK (54.1). Board of Directors of STI (Short term incentive program) and LTI. The principles for variable remuneration are resolved by Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman 0.70 0.13 0.64 0.12 the AGM. The performance targets are prepared by the In the Parent Company, the year’s expenses for special Göran Sundström, member 0.34 0.16 0.32 0.14 Remuneration Committee and decided by the Board. employer’s contribution on pension premiums was 13.8 Mathias Haid, member 0.34 0.07 0.32 0.06 During the year, two different types of variable remunerMSEK (13.5). For more information on the defined benGöran Näsholm, member 0.34 0.07 0.32 0.06 ation, STI and LTI, were payable. efit pension plans in the Group, refer to Note 19. Charlotte Strömberg, member 0.34 0.09 0.32 0.08 Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg, mem0.34 0.00 0.32 0.00 Provisions for STI and LTI are posted continuously in the ber Margareta Lehmann, member 0.34 0.00 0.32 0.00 individual annual accounts. All members of Senior ManHåkan Lundstedt, member 0.34 0.09 0.32 0.08 agement are entitled to annual pension contributions, Board total 3.08 0.59 2.88 0.54 primarily in accordance with the ITP plan. The retirement age is between 65 and 67. 73 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE The gender distribution during the financial year among Basic salary long-term work performance. Connecting participants’ positions, regarded as having considerable potential Senior Management of the Parent Company, is three The basic salary is to comprise the basis for total rerewards to the company’s profit and value development in their present position to influence Clas Ohlson AB’s women and six men. In percentage terms, the distrimuneration. The salary is to be related to the relevant will continue to promote company loyalty and thus suslong-term development (Senior Management). bution is thus 66.7 per cent male and 33.3 per cent market and reflect the extent of the responsibilities intainable value growth in the company. female. The distribution in the preceding year was five cluded in the position. The development of basic salary 2. other employees who could develop into members of men and three women. The gender distribution during is to depend on how well work is performed and how Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees Senior Management or assume other key positions the financial year among Senior Management of the well the employee develops his/her expertise to assume to acquire shares are subject to AGM approval. The within the Group and thus influence Clas Ohlson AB’s Group, is five women and six men. In percentage terms, future work assignments involving greater responsibility. qualification period for LTI 2017, LTI 2018 and LTI 2019 long-term development (Key Individuals). the distribution is thus 54.5 per cent male and 45.5 per The basic salary is to be reviewed annually to ensure were in effect during the financial year. The qualification cent female. The distribution in the preceding year was that it is market-based and competitive. period for LTI 2017 was concluded after the close of the For senior management, the program is unchanged seven men and five women. financial year and LTI 2020 was launched. All long-term compared with earlier programs, see the description Variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive, STI) incentive programs are share matching and profit-based above. For Key Individuals, LTI 2017, LTI 2018 and LTI Further information on decision-making processes in In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualemployee stock option plans. 2019 entails that participants receive an allocation of the Group is presented on pages 47-51. ify for STI for performance that exceeds one or several conditional performance-based employee stock options predetermined performance levels during a financial All ongoing long-term incentive programs have been free of charge. The number of allocated employee stock Remuneration principles year, designed to promote the company’s long-term approved by an Annual General Meeting. The current options is based on the calculated number of shares, The general principles of remuneration for senior value creation. Clearly defined performance targets are program covers up to 100 senior executives and other which, at the prevailing market price at the start of the executives are to be based on the position held, to be decided annually by the Board or by individuals individuals deemed to be able to influence Clas program, corresponds to a value of a minimum of 5 per individual performance, the Group’s financial results and elected by the Board. The performance targets may be Ohlson’s development in the long-term. cent and a maximum of 10 per cent (LTI 2019 minimum the remuneration being competitive in the country of connected to operational, financial or personal results. of 3 and a maximum of 10 per cent) of the Key Individuemployment. These principles contribute to the Group’s Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, All participants up to and including LTI 2014 acquired al’s annual basic salary. set goals relating to sustainability, long-term interest which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum series B shares in Clas Ohlson corresponding to a value and business strategy. The combined remuneration of remuneration levels from the beginning. Insofar as perof not less than 5 per cent and not more than 10 per Employee stock options are allocated free of charge senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable formance does not match the lowest performance level, cent of their annual basic salary. Participants acquired and each stock option entitles the holder to acquire salary in the form of a short-term incentive based on no STI will be paid. STI will depend on the position held series B Clas Ohlson shares, at market price, which the one series B Clas Ohlson share. Up to and including annual performance objectives, long-term incentives and may not exceed 50 per cent of salary if the ceiling company will later match (1:1) free of charge through LTI 2014, the price per share when the option was exbased on multi-year performance, pension and is achieved, which also represents the maximum outallotment of shares. If the employee holds the acquired ercised was calculated at 110 per cent of the average other benefits. In addition, notice of termination and come of STI. STI remuneration is also conditional upon shares and is still employed by the Group after the of the volume-weighted average price paid for the seseverance pay are subject to terms and conditions. the performance on which earnings are based being end of the qualitfication period, the company will issue ries B Clas Ohlson share on the Nasdaq Stockholm Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to matching shares to the employee. established for each day during a period of 10 trading remuneration, focusing on payments based on perreclaim such remuneration that was paid due to infordays prior to the acquisition period. For subsequent formance. This means that variable remuneration may mation that later turned out to be obviously erroneous. The employee may also be allotted profit-based emLTI plans, the figure is 100 per cent. The exercise price comprise a significant portion of total remuneration. The ployee stock options, see the description below. for LTI 2017, LTI 2018 and LTI 2019 has been set at aim is for fixed remuneration to be in line with the mediLong-term incentive programs 148.30 SEK, 93.8 SEK and 77.50 SEK, respectively. an of the comparable market, while total remuneration, (Long Term Incentive, LTI) The programs from LTI 2015 have been changed by The options may be exercised not earlier than three when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to The aim of LTI programs is to create the prerequisites dividing the participants into two groups: years and not later than seven years from the date of albe in the upper quartile of the market. for retaining and recruiting competent employees to lotment. For an option to be exercised, the holder must the Group. The programs were designed to encourage 1. senior management comprising senior management still be employed by the Clas Ohlson Group and have participants to become shareholders in the company, including the CEO, Group Management and country retained his/her personal investment for three years which is expected to have a positive impact on their managers elected by the Board or corresponding from the date of allotment. The option holdings do not 74 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE provide entitlement to receive dividends on the underlythe Board. The level corresponds to a maximum of 25 LTI 2019 2018/19 ing shares. options per acquired series B share. Matching shares No. of series No. of employee Target value Share awards LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 Participants B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 At 1 May 11,916 4,712 9,659 The number of employee stock options that may be Accordingly, the total number of employee stock opCEO and President 2,715 27,150 0.4 Granted 17,014 exercised by participants of LTI programs up to and intions that may be exercised by each participant is limitOther members of Senior Forfeited -1,303 -3,277 -2,076 Management 8,993 89,930 1.5 cluding LTI 2014 depends on the number of series ed to 15 options (25 options for exceptional tasks). Exercised -9,659 Other participants 0 252,910 2.7 B shares that the employee has acquired within the At 30 April 15,711 8,639 2,636 0 Total 11,708 369,990 4.6 framework of the plan, and whether the company’s It was not possible to exercise any of the options for LTI growth and profit growth during the first three financial 2017, LTI 2018 or LTI 2019 on 30 April 2020. The numNumber of options to exercise years increase to the levels set by the Board. These ber that may be exercised after three years is based 1 Initially, at the start of the program, the participants acquired 17,014 The table below outlines the number of granted, forfeited established levels are: Entry, Target and Stretch, with a on the achievement of growth and profit targets in acand 15,581 shares under the frameworks of the LTI 2018 and LTI and exercised options during this and previous financial 2019 respectively. The table shows status as of 30 April 2020. straight-line increase between each profit level. cordance with the above. The sum that is expensed is year: 2 The number of shares and employee stock options may be recalcubased on the level of 0 options for LTI 2017, 10 options lated due to decisions concerning a possible new share issue or split. For Key Individuals under LTI 2018 and LTI 2019, the per share for LTI 2018 and 10 options per share for LTI 3 The target value of the plan is calculated based on the fair value on 2019/20 number of employee stock options that may be exer2019.The total outcome for all ongoing LTI programs the date of allotment. The share value on the date of allotment was Options LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 LTI 2013 cised depends on the number of shares as correspondduring the financial year (LTI 2017, LTI 2018 and LTI 75.31 SEK LTI 2018 and 59.77 SEK for LTI 2019 and the fair value of the option was 11.38 and 10.49 SEK. To calculate the fair value of At 1 May 0 0 176,909 293,162 ed by the Key Individual’s salary at the start of the pro2019) was a cost reduction of 3.7 MSEK, including soGranted 0 0 0 0 the options, the binominal model for option valuation was used. Valugram (a minimum of 5 and 3 per cent, respectively, and cial security contributions. Last year the corresponding ation has been conducted using an initial share price of 94.06/78.52 Forfeited 0 0 -44,732 -176,145 a maximum of 10 per cent). figure was a total cost of 3.3 MSEK. SEK, an exercise price of 93.80/77.50 SEK, an expected dividend Exercised 0 0 0 -117,017 per share annually, an anticipated lifetime for the options of five years, At 30 April 0 0 132,177 0 Entry is a minimum level that must be exceeded in order In accordance with the below, LTI 2018 och LTI 2019 will an interest rate of -0.12 per cent /-0.24 per cent, a volatility of 28 per for an employee stock option to be exercised. The three include the following number of series B shares and emcent /32 per cent and annual withdrawals of 5 per cent. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation for the expected return on the Number of options to exercise levels correspond to the following number of employee ployee stock options for the various participant share price based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices during stock options: categories if the Target level is achieved. the past three years. The values were adjusted for the discounted Participants LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 CEO and President 0 0 0 value of future dividend. • Entry: 5 options per acquired/calculated series Extent of LTI 2018 and LTI 2019 at target level1 Other members of Group Management 0 0 27,957 B share Share awards Other participants 0 0 104,220 LTI 2018 • Target: 10 options per acquired/calculated series The table below outlines the number of granted, forfeitTotal 0 0 132,177 Matching shares B share No. of series No. of employee Target value ed and exercised share awards during this and previous Participants B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 • Stretch: 15 options per acquired/calculated series financial year: LTI 2017 result CEO and President 4,426 44,260 0.8 B share 2019/20 The qualification and performance periods for LTI 2017 Other members of Senior Management 7,420 74,200 1.4 were valid from 1 May 2017 until 30 April 2020. A total of Share awards LTI 2019 LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 In addition to the levels described above, there is a Other participants 0 196,347 2.2 7,970 shares were allotted on 4 May, after the end of the At 1 May 15,711 8,639 2,636 “Max” level. This level is conditional upon the existence Total 11,846 314,807 4.5 financial year, in accordance with the AGM’s resolution reGranted 15,581 of a specific situation and a single member of Senior Forfeited -3,873 -3,865 -669 garding share matching of one share per share purchased Management fulfilling the exceptional tasks resolved by Exercised -2,636 to those participants who remained employed after the At 30 April 11,708 11,846 7,970 0 three-year qualification period. The set criteria pertaining to the average sales and profit growth per share for the 75 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE period 2017 to 2020 were not achieved, which resulted in Note 7 Remuneration to auditors Note 9 Income tax no options being allotted to participants and the LTI 2017 RecRecognised in Change in Amount was thus concluded. Participants of LTI 2014 were already Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Amount ognised in compreExchange accounting at the at start profit or hensive rate difpolicy end of entitled to exercise 10.9 options per purchased share at Deloitte 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Group 2019/20 of year loss income ferences IFRS 16 year an exercise price of 153.60 SEK. The tabel below outlines Remuneration for audit engageTax on profit for the year Change in deferred tax in 2.3 2.3 1.2 1.4 the number of awarded matching share and options for ment temporary differences Income tax on profit for the year -88.4 -51.3 -48.8 -2.6 during the year Remuneration for audit related LTI 2017. services 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.2 -88.4 -51.3 -48.8 -2.6 Inter-company Share awards LTI 2017 profit in invento22.8 -1.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.9 Tax consultations 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 ries Matching Other 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.0 Deferred tax Participants share Options Accruals and Deferred tax pertaining to tem5.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.4 Total 3.2 2.7 1.8 1.6 -17.4 31.0 -0.2 -0.5 deferrals CEO and President 4,352 0 porary differences Pensions 3.4 0.3 0.0 -0.2 0.0 3.5 Other members of Group Management 2,654 0 -17.4 31.0 -0.2 -0.5 Accelerated Other participants 964 0 Total recognised tax expense -105.8 -20.3 -49.0 -3.1 -72.1 -2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -74.7 Note 8 Financial income and expenses depreciation Total 7,970 0 Tax allocation Financial income is distributed as follows: -129.1 -4.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 -133.5 Reconciliation of applicable tax reserves rate and effective rate Hedging 0.0 0.0 -10.2 0.0 0.0 -10.2 reserves Share repurchase for LTI programs Group 2019/20 2018/19 Recognised profit before tax 450.7 91.9 224.1 288.7 Interest income 0.1 1.1 Provisions DE/ During 2016 and 2017, Clas Ohlson repurchased series B Expected tax expense according -96.4 -20.2 -48.0 -63.5 UK 2.2 -2.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Group total 0.1 1.1 to the swedish tax rate (21.4%) Clas Ohlson shares to fulfil the company’s long-term obLeasing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 36.5 36.5 ligations under the incentive programmes. Repurchased Other 0.2 -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 Tax effect of: shares will be allotted, sold to participants or to correTotal -167.7 -10.3 -10.2 -0.2 36.5 -151.8 Interest income 0.2 1.1 Differences in foreign tax rates -0.9 -0.7 0.0 0.0 spond to social security expenses. Interest income, subsidiaries 0.9 1.3 Non-deductible/non-recognised -0.7 -1.2 -0.4 -0.8 Parent Company total 1.0 2.4 Adjustment earlier taxation -0.6 5.1 0.0 0.0 The Group does not have any unrecognised deferred tax assets or tax Pensions and other benefits Tax-free dividend subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 62.1 liabilities on temporary differences. As a main rule, pension agreements are to be deLeasing -6.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recfined-contribution and designed in accordance with the Other -0.2 -3.4 -0.6 -0.9 Recognised in Financial expenses are distributed as follows: levels and practices that apply in the country in which the Recognised tax expense -105.8 -20.3 -49.0 -3.1 Amount at ognised in compreExchange Amount at start of profit or hensive rate differthe end of senior executive is employed. Other benefits may occur in Group 2018/19 year loss income ences year Group 2019/20 2018/19 accordance with the conditions that apply in the country Effective tax rate. % 22.0 22.1 21.8 1.1 Change in deferred tax in temFinancial expenses -3.4 -3.3 porary differences during the in which the senior executive is employed. However, such year Financial expenses leasing -64.3 0.0 benefits may not constitute a large portion of the total Deferred tax items recognised -10.2 -1.2 0.0 0.0 Inter-company Group total -67.7 -3.3 directly in equity 12.0 10.8 0.0 0.0 22.8 profit in inventories remuneration. Deferred tax assets 71.4 19.4 3.4 3.5 Accruals and defer7.3 -2.3 0.0 0.0 5.0 Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 Deferred tax liabilities -223.2 -187.1 0.0 0.0 rals Interest expense -3.2 -3.2 Pensions 3.4 -0.3 0.0 0.2 3.4 Interest expense, subsidiaries -2.2 -1.9 Accelerated depre-82.6 10.6 0.0 0.0 -72.1 ciation Parent Company total -5.5 -5.1 Tax allocation -138.2 9.1 0.0 0.0 -129.1 reserves Hedging reserves 1.2 0.0 -1.2 0.0 0.0 Provisions DE/UK 0.0 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.2 Other 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Total -196.7 30.8 -1.2 0.2 -167.7 76 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 10 Earnings per share* Note 12 Non-current assets Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Earnings per share before dilution Equipment. tools. fixtures and Intangible assets Tangible assets fittings Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 Capitalised IT and software Opening accumulated acquisiAverage number of shares before dilution 63.3 63.2 Land and buildings 1,928.4 1,974.6 1,132.1 1,094.1 costs tion cost Earnings per share before dilution 5.94 1.13 Opening accumulated acquisiOpening accumulated acquisi696.5 596.1 696.5 596.1 754.8 754.8 754.8 754.8 Acquisitions for the year 60.8 105.8 26.0 54.7 tion cost tion cost Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Earnings per share after dilution Acquisitions for the year 143.5 104.9 143.5 104.9 Acquisitions for the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals -153.4 -158.3 -38.8 -16.8 Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Translation differences -68.5 6.4 0.0 0.0 Average number of shares before dilution 63.3 63.2 Sales and disposals -19.4 -4.5 -19.4 -4.5 Sales and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated acquiClosing accumulated acquiTranslation differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,767.3 1,928.4 1,119.2 1,132.1 Adjusted for: 820.6 696.5 820.6 696.5 sition cost sition cost share savings program 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated acqui754.8 754.8 754.8 754.8 sition cost Average number of shares after dilution 63.3 63.2 Opening accumulated depreciaOpening accumulated deprecia-1,374.9 -1,320.0 -834.8 -767.1 Earnings per share after dilution 5.94 1.13 -219.5 -167.8 -219.5 -167.8 tion cost tion cost Opening accumulated depreciaDepreciation for the year -125.5 -159.4 -67.9 -83.6 -396.8 -368.1 -396.8 -368.1 Depreciation for the year -61.9 -48.7 -61.9 -48.7 tion cost *number of shares are expressed in millions of share. Reclassifications 0.0 3.3 0.0 3.3 Reclassifications 0.0 -3.3 0.0 -3.3 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals 139.2 105.9 36.2 12.7 Sales and disposals 4.0 0.4 4.0 0.4 Sales and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Earnings per share before and after dilution Translation differences 44.7 -4.7 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated depreDepreciation for the year -28.3 -28.7 -28.3 -28.7 The calculation of earnings per share has been based ciation cost -277.4 -219.5 -277.4 -219.5 Closing accumulated depreTranslation differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,316.5 -1,374.9 -866.5 -834.8 ciation cost on profit for the year, totalling 375.9 MSEK (71.6) and Closing accumulated depreon an average number of shares outstanding before Net book value 543.2 476.9 543.2 476.9 ciation cost -425.0 -396.8 -425.0 -396.8 Net book value 450.8 553.5 252.7 297.3 and after dilution during both 2019/20 and 2018/19. Net book value 329.8 358.1 329.8 358.1 Note 11 Dividend per share Carrying amount. land 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 The dividends paid in 2019/20 and 2018/19 totalled 395.5 MSEK (6.25 SEK per share) and 395.1 MSEK (6.25 SEK per share). Macroeconomic trends and their impact on retail sector as a result of COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this stage, the Board intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s solid financial position and flexibility and therefore proposes that no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial year. The proposed dividend last year amounted to a total of 410 MSEK, which represented 573 per cent of the operating profit after tax. 77 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Parent Company Group Investment commitments Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Contracted investments on the balance sheet date not Group Parent Company Financial non-current assets IFRS 16 Cars yet recognised in the finanacial statements: Opening accumulated acquisition cost 43.6 198.5 Opening accumulated acquisition cost 0.0 0.0 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Group Parent Company Increase/decrease in non-current receivables 2.2 -154.9 Effect of changed accounting policy 3.1 0.0 Prepaid rent 67.1 26.9 38.9 Closing accumulated acquisition cost 45.8 43.6 Additional right-of-use assets 1.4 0.0 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Prepaid costs of materials 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Terminated or renegotiated agreements -0.1 0.0 Equipment, tools, fixtures and Other prepaid expenses 95.5 80.7 29.8 43.8 15.5 10.2 12.1 6.4 Translation differences -0.1 0.0 fittings Total 95.5 147.8 56.7 82.7 Closing accumulated acquisition cost 4.3 0.0 Affected by change in accounting principle IFRS 16. Group Parent Company Note 13 Inventories 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents Opening accumulated depreciation cost 0.0 0.0 Securities held as fixed assets. Group Parent Company Effect of changed accounting policy -1.4 0.0 valued at fair value* Depreciation for the year -1.2 0.0 Group 2019/20 2018/19 Securities held as fixed assets. 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 valued at fair value at the begin225.3 224.5 225.3 224.5 Terminated or renegotiated agreements 0.1 0.0 Cash and bank balances 80.1 105.0 ning of the year Merchandise 1,811.2 1,987.3 1,310.5 1,364.2 Translation differences 0.0 0.0 Group total 80.1 105.0 Acquisition 27.0 0.8 27.0 0.8 Total 1,811.2 1,987.3 1,310.5 1,364.2 Closing accumulated depreciation cost -2.5 0.0 Revaluation during the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 At the end of the year, utilised overdraft facilities in the Net book value 1.8 0.0 Securities held as fixed Cost of goods sold 5,268.1 5,277.5 5,085.9 4,978.5 Group, which are not included in cash and cash equivaassets. valued at fair value at 252.3 225.3 252.3 225.3 Of which, obsolescence -6.1 -8.0 -3.7 -9.3 the end of the year Group lents, totalled 67.2 MSEK (283.0), refer to Note 20. *According to level three in the fair value hierarchy, see note 20 2019/20 2018/19 Obsolescence is calculated based on individual assessment on the basis of age analysis in stores and the distribution centre. Total credit limits granted in the Group and in the Parent IFRS 16 Other Company amounts to 1,000 MSEK (750). Group Opening accumulated acquisition cost 0.0 0.0 Effect of changed accounting policy 16.1 0.0 2019/20 2018/19 Additional right-of-use assets 25.6 0.0 Note 14 Accounts receivable Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash placeIFRS 16 Facilities Terminated or renegotiated agreements 0.0 0.0 ments in Swedish banks, cash on the way and cash in Group Parent Company Opening accumulated acquisition cost 0.0 0.0 Translation differences 0.0 0.0 stores. Effect of changed accounting policy 4,825.1 0.0 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Closing accumulated acquisition cost 41.7 0.0 Additional right-of-use assets 498.6 0.0 Accounts receivable 49.9 39.0 23.9 20.6 Provisions for bad debt has not been accounted for as Terminated or renegotiated agreements -114.8 0.0 Opening accumulated depreciation cost 0.0 0.0 Total 49.9 39.0 23.9 20.6 the historic outcome has not been material. Translation differences -256.4 0.0 Effect of changed accounting policy -3.3 0.0 Closing accumulated acquisition cost 4,952.6 0.0 Fair value 49.9 39.0 23.9 20.6 Depreciation for the year -3.8 0.0 Terminated or renegotiated agreements 0.0 0.0 Provisions for bad debt has not been accounted for as the historic Opening accumulated depreciation cost 0.0 0.0 Translation differences 0.0 0.0 outcome has not been material. Effect of changed accounting policy -2,720.1 0.0 Closing accumulated depreciation cost -7.1 0.0 Depreciation for the year -466.5 0.0 Net book value 34.6 0.0 Terminated or renegotiated agreements 113.7 0.0 Translation differences 143.8 0.0 Closing accumulated depreciation cost -2,929.1 0.0 Net book value 2,023.5 0.0 78 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 17 Forward contracts Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity Note 19 Pension obligations 2019/20 2018/19 As per the balance sheet date, outstanding cash-flow The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of The Group has defined-benefit occupational pension Group 101.8 93.1 hedging existed according to the following table. the Annual General Meeting: plans for only a few formerly employed salaried employParent Company 62.9 54.1 ees. The following tables provide an overview of the Carrying Average reProfit brought forward 166,310 items included in the net expense for the remuneration Nominal Currency amount and maining term Profit for the year 175,085 recognised in the consolidated income statement for For salaried employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s amount fair value in months.1 Total 341,395 the Group’s defined benefit pension plans. The amounts defined-benefit pension obligations retirement and family Sell/buy 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 for the pension plans are also recognised in the consolpensions are insured on the basis of insurance with NOK/SEK 10.4 -6.1 118.3 152.0 2.6 2.3 The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: idated balance sheet. For more information, refer to the Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish NOK/USD 37.5 8.5 358.9 414.9 2.5 3.3 pages 66-67. Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10 Reporting of ITP 2 SEK/USD 0.0 1.1 0.0 26.6 0.0 5.5 Carried forward to new account 1 341,395 pension plans financed through insurance in Alecta, this Total 47.9 3.5 477.2 593.5 5.1 3.2 is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the current Total 341,395 Changes in the asset/liability recognised in the balance financial year, the company did not have access to infor1 Maturity ranges from 13 May 2 Nov for NOK/SEK, 13 May 9 Sep for NOK/USD. In sheet are: the preceding year, the maturity ranges were from 15 May-11 Sep for NOK/SEK, 8 Macroeconomic trends and their impact on retail sector as a result of 1 mation to recognise its proportionate share of the plan’s May 30 Oct for NOK/USD and 16 oct 16 oct for SEK/USD. COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this stage, the Board intends to safe2019/20 2018/19 obligations, plan assets and expenses, which entails that Forward contracts belong to the derivative category, guard Clas Ohlson’s solid financial position and flexibility and therefore At the start of the year 1.2 1.5 the plan cannot be recognised as a defined-benefit plan. Net Pension Cost -0.2 -0.3 which is used for hedging purposes. All derivatives are proposes that no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial year. The ITP 2 pension plan insured through insurance with Employer contribution 0.0 0.0 measured at fair value, established by using forward Alecta is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution Exchange-rate differences -0.2 0.0 contract prices on the balance sheet date, meaning, The total number of ordinary shares is 65,600,000 plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and Recognised provision for defined benefit oblilevel 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. (2018/19: 65,600,000) with a quotient value of 1.25. gations 0.9 1.2 family pensions are individually calculated and depend on The number of series A shares is 5,760,000, while the such factors as salary, previously earned pension and exForward contracts with negative market values totalled number of series B shares is 59,840,000. Each series pected remaining service period. The expected contribuPension obligations: 0.0 MSEK (6.1), which was recognised in the item acA share carries ten votes, while each series B share tions for the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance policrued expenses and deferred income. Forward concarries one vote. All issued shares are fully paid up. 2019/20 2018/19 cies taken out with Alecta amount to 12.4 MSEK (15.2). tracts with positive market values amounted to 47.9 The company has outstanding stock option plans, Present value of funded obligations 3.9 4.7 MSEK (9.6), which was recognised in the item Prepaid whose outcome was hedged through the repurchase of Fair value of plan assets 4.8 6.0 The collective funding ratio comprises the market value expenses and accrued income. 2,262,553 B shares (2,382,206). The number of shareNon-recognised actuarial gains/losses 0.0 0.0 of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance comsoutstanding at the end of the year was 63,337,447 Recognised asset in balance sheet for pension 0.9 1.2 mitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methobligations A deferred tax liability of 10.2 MSEK (previous year a (63,217,794). The averagenumber of shares before and ods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. deferred tax assets of 1.2) was taken into account and after dilution is reported in Note 10. The collective funding ratio is normally permitted to vary the reamaining fair value of 37.6 MSEK (2.7) was recogDefined-contribution plans between 125 and 175 per cent. To strengthen the collecnized in the hedging reserve within equity. The amount The Group’s reserves contain translation differences of Defined contribution plans exist in Sweden, Norway tive funding ratio if it is deemed to be too low, a measure for forward contracts NOK/USD of 37.5 MSEK (8.5) -92.2 MSEK (-39.3), and hedging reserve of 37.6 MSEK and Finland. Payments to these plans are made could be raising the contracted price for new policies and is allocated on the currency pair NOK/SEK with 28.2 (2.7). continuously according to the rules of each plan. expanding existing benefits. If the collective funding ratio MSEK (-9.8) and on the currency pair SEK/USD with exceeds 150 per cent, premium reductions may be intro9.3 MSEK (18.3). duced. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 148 per cent (142). 79 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 20 Financial instruments Carrying amounts Carrying amounts Received contractual cashReceived contractual cashReceived contractual cashflows and sale of financial Received contractual cashflows and sale of financial flows assets Other financial assets flows assets Other financial assets Financial assets measured Financial assets measured Financial assets measured Financial assets measured Financial assets measured at fair value through other at fair value through profit Financial liabilities meaFinancial assets measured at fair value through other at fair value through profit Financial liabilities mea2019/20 Level at amortized cost comprehensive income or loss sured at amortized cost Total 2018/19 Level at amortized cost comprehensive income or loss sured at amortized cost Total Financial assets measured Financial assets measured at fair value at fair value Securities held as fixed assets* 3 0.0 0.0 252.3 0.0 252.3 Securities held as fixed assets* 3 0.0 0.0 225.3 0.0 225.3 Financial assets not meaFinancial assets not measured at fair value sured at fair value Other long term receivables 2 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 Other long term receivables 2 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 Accounts receivable 2 49.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 49.9 Accounts receivable 2 39.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 39.0 Other receivables 2 5.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.7 Other receivables 2 2.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.7 Cash and cash equivalent 2 80.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 80.1 Cash and cash equivalent 2 105.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 105.0 Total financial assets 139.8 0.0 252.3 0.0 392.1 Total financial assets 148.7 0.0 225.3 0.0 374.0 Financial liabilities meaFinancial liabilities measured at fair value sured at fair value Other liability provisions 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.4 8.4 Other liability provisions 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.7 12.7 Long-term lease liability** 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 672.5 1 672.5 Current liabilities, interest-bear2 0.0 0.0 0.0 283.1 283.1 ing Current liabilities, interest-bear2 0.0 0.0 0.0 67.2 67.2 Other current liabilities 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 663.6 663.6 ing Current lease liability** 0.0 0.0 0.0 523.7 523.7 Accounts payable 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 637.4 637.4 Other current liabilities 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 632.3 632.3 Total financial liablilites 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,596.8 1,596.8 Accounts payable 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 551.2 551.2 For other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount represents a reasonable approximation of fair value. Total financial liablilites 0.0 0.0 0.0 3,455.4 3,455.4 * The holding in MatHem Sverige AB was valued based on a transacFair value measured according to the three levels tion between two independent parties, and adjusted by the amount below: of the holding compared with the observed transaction. The fair value Level 1: Listed prices in an active marketplace. was measured according to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy since the Level 2: Valuation model mainly based on observable value is based on the value of a transaction in a non-active market. market data for the asset or liability. ** Lease liabilities are valued in accordance with IFRS 16 Level 3: Valuation model mainly based on own assumptions. 80 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income Club Clas Note 23 Inter-Group transactions Group Parent Company Members of the Clas Ohlson’s loyalty program, Club Clas, receive bonus cheques in various amounts deOf the Parent Company’s invoiced sales, intra-Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 pending on the amount of purchases the customer sales accounted for 2,968.3 MSEK (2,934.4). Of this Accrued payroll expenses 137.1 129.3 82.6 67.9 made at Clas Ohlson. The cheques are distributed consum, 2,357.8 MSEK (2,303.1) related to sales to Clas Accrued holiday pay expenses 200.1 206.5 120.8 120.3 tinuously and are valid for six months. All issued bonus Ohlson AS in Norway, 601.4 MSEK (609.4) to sales to Accrued social security contributions 122.7 99.7 104.7 83.8 cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, 8.8 MSEK (18.4) to sales to Other items 83.4 110.2 40.9 52.9 the loyalty program is reduced by the fair amount with Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK and 0.3 MSEK (3.5) sales to Total 543.3 545.7 349.0 324.9 respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, considClas Ohlson GmbH in Germany. No purchases were ering the current degree of redemption. made from subsidiaries. Note 22 Other provisions Restructuring During the financial year 2018/19 provision for restrucNote 24 Participations in Group companies Refers to: turing cost totalled 210.0 MSEK pertaining to the cloParent company 2019/20 2018/19 Sales-related provisions sure ef the store network outside the Nordics. Accumulated acquisition value Pertains to provisions for guarantee commitments, unGroup Parent Company Opening value 39.3 29.3 redeemed gift cards, open purchase and estimated Shareholder contribution 0.0 10.0 bonus points to customer club members, which are all Guarantee commitments 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Total 39.3 39.3 expected to be utilised during the subsequent financial Opening provisions 12.0 11.3 6.7 6.1 year. The provision for estimated future guarantee comUtilised during the year -12.0 -11.3 -6.7 -6.1 mitments is equivalent to the guarantee expenses for the Allocated during the year 10.8 12.0 5.7 6.7 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of shares and year with respect to the length of the warranty period. Total 10.8 12.0 5.7 6.7 participations in subsidiaries according to the balance sheet 30/4. All companies are owned 100 percent. The Group has made assessGift cards Open purchase, unredeemed ment that Clas Ohlson AB is deemed to have de facto control over gift cards and bonus points 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 When purchasing Clas Ohlson’s gift cards in stores or Opening provisions 55.5 57.5 43.2 44.6 C/O P Investment AB and therefore consolidated. C/O P Investment via online shopping, the entire amount is recognised as Utilised during the year -55.5 -57.5 -43.2 -44.6 AB is owned 30.5%. a provision and recognised as income only when the gift Allocated during the year 53.4 55.5 44.4 43.2 card has been used in a store or has expired. Total 53.4 55.5 44.4 43.2 Holding of shares and participations in subsidiaries for Clas Ohlson AB: Open purchase and complaints 2020-04-30 2019-04-30 Clas Ohlson offers its customers open purchase for 90 Restructuring 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Number of Number of Opening provisions 62.0 17.7 0.0 0.0 Country Company Registered office Registration number Value MSEK Value MSEK days and Club Clas members 365 days. Customers shares shares Utilised during the year -31.3 -165.7 0.0 0.0 have the right to complain about unsatisfactory purNorway Clas Ohlson AS Oslo NO 937402198 10,000 0.1 10,000 0.1 Allocated during the year 1.1 210.0 0.0 0.0 chases for up to ten years after the purchase. Most of Finland Clas Ohlson OY Helsinki FI 1765891-7 500,000 4.7 500,000 4.7 Total 31.9 62.0 0.0 0.0 the returns occur during the week following the purUK Clas Ohlson Ltd London 6298382 300,000 4.0 300,000 4.0 Of which long-term provision Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Hamburg HRB 130004 1 9.3 1 9.3 chase. Every month, sales are adjusted taking into acamounts to 8.4 12.7 0.0 0.0 China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co. Ltd Shanghai 310000400574190 1,500,000 11.3 1,500,000 11.3 count the estimated proportion of returns. Total provisions 96.1 129.4 50.1 49.9 Sweden C/O P Investment AB Sweden 559160-9903 305 10.0 305 10.0 Total 39.3 39.3 81 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets Note 29 Pledged assets Cash-flow statement: Group Parent Company 2019/20 Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 Interest -64.3 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Accumulated acquisition value Amortization -466.6 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Opening value 225.3 224.5 Payment of variable, short-term and low value lease fees -41.8 Total pledged assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions for the year 27.0 0.8 Revenue from sublease of right-of-use assets 25.2 Total 252.3 225.3 Total cash flow effects attributable to leasing agreements -547.5 The company has no collateral for own obligations perFor information on the maturity structure of the Group’s leasing payments, see Note 2 Holding of securities held as fixed asset for Clas Ohlson AB: taining to currency forward contracts. Regarding conon pages 71-72. 2020-04-30 2019-04-30 tracted overdraft facilities, the company’s reports finanChange in lease liability 2019/20 Number of Percentage of cial covenants, for which the company met the terms Country Company Registered office Registration number Value MSEK Value MSEK Lease liability recognised in 1 May 2019 2,259.0 shares votes and conditions by a healthy margin. Utilised overdraft New and changed lease agreements 524.6 Sweden MatHem i Sverige AB Stockholm 556775-7264 761,480 8% 252.3 225.3 facilities in the Group and Parent Company amounted Amortization -466.6 Total 252.3 225.3 to 67.2 MSEK (283.0) in the year end. Total credit limTranslation differences -120.7 its granted in the Group and in the Parent Company Lease liability at end of period 2,196.2 amounts to 1,000 MSEK (750.0). Leases of premises The Group’s leases of premises relates to stores, officNote 26 Appropriations Note 28 Untaxed reserves Note 30 Leases es and warehouses. The leases normally have a term Balance sheet: between three and ten years. The structure of charges Group Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 in the leases varies between fixed lease payments and The difference between recognised depreciation Accumulated difference between recognised Right-of-use assets 2019/20 leases with a varying degree of variable lease charges. and depreciation according to plan: – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings -39.0 -30.8 depreciation and depreciation according to plan: Facilities 2,023.5 The variable lease charges are based on both changes – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 477.5 438.5 – land and buildings 0.0 0.0 Cars 1.8 in the Group’s sales in the leased premises during the – land and buildings 0.0 0.0 Provision for tax allocation reserves Other 34.6 year and property tax charged by the property owner. Provision for tax allocation reserve Provisions for the year 29.0 72.0 Tax 2014 0.0 101.0 Closing balance at 30 April 2020 2,059.9 Sales-based lease payments totalled approximately 13 Parent Company total -10.0 41.2 Tax 2015 138.0 138.0 For further description of rights-of-use assets, see note 12. MSEK for 2019/20, which were charged to the income Tax 2016 123.0 123.0 statement for the financial year. Index clauses are includTax 2017 131.0 131.0 Income statement: ed in the majority of all leases in which the lease level is Note 27 Cash and bank balances Tax 2018 63.0 63.0 2019/20 linked to index adjustments in each country. Joint exTax 2019 0.0 0.0 Depreciation of right-of-use assets -471.6 penses for marketing and other services are managed Tax 2020 72.0 0.0 Interest on the lease liability -64.3 as operating expenses. The Group rents out a small Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 Parent Company total 1,004.5 994.5 Variable leasing fees -12.4 number of premises under operating leases. Cash and bank balances 23.3 33.4 Cost of short-term lease -12.9 Parent Company total 23.3 33.4 Costs of low value leases, not short-term lease of low value -16.6 Extension and termination options Revenue from sublease of right-of-use assets 25.2 Extension and termination options are included in most Utilised Group overdraft facilities, totalled 67 MSEK (283). Total credit Total result effects attributable to leasing agreements -552.5 leases whereby we as a tenant have the option to termilimits granted in the Group and in the Parent Company amounts to nate a lease in advance or extend the lease for a certain 1,000 MSEK (750.0). 82 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Assets per segment period of time. An individual assessment is made on the Note 31 Related-party transactions Note 33 Segment reporting commencement date of each lease as to whether it is Sweden 599.8 932.0 reasonably certain that such an option will be exercised. The number of shareholders in the company totaled Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, NorNorway 486.1 621.6 A number of parameters are taken into account in such 38,504 at end of financial year. The major shareholders way, Finland and Outside Nordic countries as well as Finland 200.3 194.4 Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Outside Nordic countries 21.4 42.7 an assessment, related to whether the option of extendare Clas Ohlson’s descendants from Haid and Tidstrand Group-wide 4,394.8 2,081.2 ing or terminating a lease falls within the time range of families, who hold 37.9 per cent of the capital and 65.3 Group-wide functions that assist sales organisations Total 5,702.4 3,872.0 the Group’s long-term business plan (5 years), and based per cent of the votes. No transactions with related partiwith purchasing, distribution, marketing, management on the current profitability of the store and its strategic es took place during the financial year 2019/20 or preand other support. A large portion of the Group’s value Cash and cash equivalents are not included in the tables above. location. The leases differ slightly between countries with vious year. Remuneration of the Board and senior mais generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s Investment Depreciation extension options mainly being included in leases in the nagement is presented in Note 6 to the Annual Report. internal pricing was adapted to these prerequisites. Investment and depreciation per Norwegian options and termination options mainly being For further description, refer to the corporate governanTransactions between Group-wide and the sales orgasegment 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 included in leases in the Swedish operations. Both exce report, pages 47-51. nisations consist primarily of deliveries and payment for Sweden 15.5 24.8 36.9 36.9 tension and termination options were taken into considgoods, internal invoicing of services rendered and inteNorway 13.1 34.3 44.8 52.0 eration when determining the lease liability. An updated Note 32 Average numbers of employees rest on Group-wide loans. The income measure recoFinland 17.8 14.0 13.5 14.5 assessment and review take place upon occurrence of gnised per segment consists of operating profit. Clas Outside Nordic countries 3.2 2.6 -1.2 8.9 either a significant event or a significant change in cirGroup Parent Company Ohlson has no customers that individually account for Group-wide 1 181.3 135.8 593.3 124.6 cumstances that is within the control of the Group. more than 10 per cent of the Group’s sales. Total 231.0 211.4 687.3 236.9 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Total Sweden 1,790 1,777 1,790 1,777 Leases in the Group 2018 and leases in the Parent – of whom, women (716) (799) (716) (799) 2019/20 2018/19 1 Investments in intangible assets amounted to 143.5 MSEK (104.9). Company Total Norway 775 797 Sales per segment Depreciation attributable to intangible assets amounted to 61.9 In 2018/19, the Group leased store, office and warehouse Sweden 3,990.6 3,853.4 MSEK (48.7). Investment in MatHem i Sverige AB amounted to 27.0 – of whom, women (302) (311) premises that under the applicable rules (IAS 17) were Norway 3,589.9 3,571.4 MSEK (0.8). classified as operating leases. The Parent Company leasTotal Finland 356 352 Finland 1,085.9 1,063.9 es stores, offices and warehouse premises that in accorOutside Nordic countries 91.9 283.5 – of whom, women (185) (172) Group-wide 2,968.3 2,934.4 Note 34 Events after the end of the period dance with RFR 2 are classified as operating leases. Total China 50 53 Eliminations of sales to other segments -2,968.3 -2,934.4 Group Parent Company Total 8,758.3 8,772.3 – of whom, women (25) (32) End of performance period, Long-term Incentive 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Operating profit per segment Plan, LTI 2017 Total UK 15 81 Leasing costs for the year 770.6 351.8 317.2 Sweden 163.6 158.2 The qualification and performance periods for the LTI – of whom, women (8) (44) Norway 151.2 150.0 2017 long-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2017 unContracted future rents Finland 33.7 34.1 til 30 April 2020. After the end of the reporting period, a Total Germany 1 39 Within a year 744.6 294.5 281.2 Outside Nordic countries 2.8 8.7 total of 7,970 shares were allotted on 4 May in accordBetween one and four years 1,429.1 411.7 473.6 – of whom, women (0) (19) Group-wide 197.9 -257.0 ance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching More than four years 489.4 28.4 63.5 Total 2,987 3,099 1,790 1,777 Total 549.2 94.0 of one share per share purchased to those participants Total lease commitments 2,663.1 734.6 818.3 – of whom, women (1,236) (1,377) (716) (799) who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. The average number of employees is based on the total number of Parent Company 2019/20 2018/19 hours worked in relation to total annual working time. Contingent liabilities, Parent Company Guarantee in favour of Group companies pertaining to 189.0 236.8 future rental commitments 83 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE The established performance criteria regarding average External financing Exemption rules applied When measuring the lease liability, the Group discountsales growth and increased earnings per share for the After the end of the financial year, the company signed The Group has applied the following voluntary exemped right-of-use assets with the incremental borrowing period 2017–2020 were not achieved, meaning that no an agreement for an external credit facility correspondtions for former operating leases in the transition calcurate as per 1 may 2019. The weighted average interest options were allotted to the participants and, accordingly, ing to 100 MSEK to meet the company’s financing relations: rate that has been used is about 3.0%. the LTI 2017 has been concluded. quirements. The company’s total credit facility thereafter • Leases with a remaining term of a maximum of 12 amounts to 1,100 MSEK. months from the date of initial application were exThe table below presents a reconciliation between the LTI 2020 and utilisation of authorisation to buy cluded from the calculation of lease liabilities and operational lease commitments (see Note 30 in the back shares right-of-use assets. Group’s Annual Report 2018/19) and the lease liability In May 2020, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2020 Note 35 Change in accounting principle IFRS 16 • Low-value assets were excluded from the calculation as of 1 May 2019. was introduced under the same structure as LTI 2019. of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets. The leases Senior management will purchase shares in LTI 2020 in Transition approach are expensed straight-line over the lease term. Reconciliation of operating lease commitments (MSEK) 2019/20 mid-June. Exercise of the options is possible, following The Group has applied the modified retrospective tran• Initial direct expenses were excluded from the measOperating lease commitments at 30 April 2019 2,663.0 the three-year qualification period between June 2023 sition method whereby the lease liability is measured at urement of right-of-use assets on the date of initial Discounting by applying the Group’s incremental borrowing rate -249.0 (where applicable, the implicit interest rate is used) and April 2027. the present value of future lease payments, discounted application. Short-term leases that are expensed -119.0 by applying the Group’s incremental borrowing rate and • When the lease term was determined, an assessment Non-lease components -502.0 On 7 September 2019, the Annual General Meeting of the right-of-use asset is measured as if IFRS 16 has was subsequently made as to whether the lease inAdjustment regarding extension options or termination clauses 466.0 Clas Ohlson AB authorised the Board of Directors to been applied since commencement date. In accordcludes an option to terminate or extend the lease. Lease liability recognised in 1 May 2019 2,259.0 acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the peance with the standard, comparative figures are not riod until the next Annual General Meeting to secure restated and the cumulative effect of the transition is Effect on the financial statements the company’s commitment in connection with the inrecognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of On the transition to IFRS 16 on 1 May 2019, right-ofSubsequent measurement troduction of a share-based incentive programme, LTI retained earnings as per 1 May 2019. use assets of 2,120 MSEK arose, as did lease liabilities All leases are measured after the transition in 2020. The total number of shares required to secure the of 2,259 MSEK and a deferred tax asset of 46 MSEK. accordance with the cost method, which entails that undertaking for LTI 2020 is estimated at 780,000. The Definition of leasing the right-of-use assets are measured at cost less entire LTI 2020 undertaking can be secured by using The new standard has primarily affected the Group’s reEffects on the balance sheet 1 May 2019 (MSEK) 2019/20 accumulated depreciation and impairment and any shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI porting of operating leases in cases where the Group is Right-of-use assets 2,119.5 adjustments due to remeasurement of the lease liability plans where the need has been recalculated. a lessee. The majority of the Group’s lease agreement is Deferred tax assets 45.9 that reflects a revision or modification of the lease. The recognised in balance sheet instead of being expensed Prepaid expenses -76.8 remeasurement amount is recognised as an adjustment Equity -170.3 As per 30 April 2020, the company’s holding of Clas straight-line over the lease term. Recognition by the lesof the right-of-use asset. Long-term lease liabilities 1,778.8 Ohlson treasury shares amounted to 2,262,553 shares, sor remains essentially unchanged under IFRS 16 and Short-term lease liabilities 480.2 corresponding to 3 per cent of the total number of reghas not made any significant difference to the Group. A istered shares. contract is, or contains, a lease under IFRS 16 if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for It was communicated on 4 June 2020 that the Presa period of time in exchange for a consideration. ident and CEO Lotta Lyrå has decided to leave the company. Lotta will remain in her current position until 4 December 2020. 84 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Certification of the Insjön 23 June 2020 Annual Report Kenneth Bengtsson Chairman of the Board Mathias Haid Margareta Lehmann The consolidated financial statements have been Göran Näsholm Charlotte Strömberg Göran Sundström prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results Håkan Lundstedt Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Lotta Lyrå President and CEO of operations. The Board of Directors and CEO assure that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordCaroline Östning Lasse Zwetsloot ance with the IFRS standards as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial posiEmployee representative (Unionen) Employee representative (Handels) tion and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting policies and provides a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. The Directors’ Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair review of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings, and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Our audit report was submitted on 29 June 2020. Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant The balance sheets and income statements are to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 12 September 2020. 85 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of We therefore recommend that the general meeting of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) corporate identity number shareholders adopts the income statement and balance 556035-8672 sheet for the parent company and the group. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the conReport on the annual accounts and tent of the additional report that has been submitted to consolidated accounts the parent company’s audit committee in accordance Opinions with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) for the financial Basis for Opinions year 2019-05-01 2020-04-30 except for the corporate We conducted our audit in accordance with Internationgovernance statement on pages 47-51. The annual acal Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted counts and consolidated accounts of the company are auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities unincluded on pages 36-85 in this document. der those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared of the parent company and the group in accordance in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and preswith professional ethics for accountants in Sweden ent fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities the parent company as of 30 April 2020 and its financial in accordance with these requirements. This includes performance and cash flow for the year then ended in that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliprohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the auditthe Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all maed company or, where applicable, its parent company terial respects, the financial position of the group as of or its controlled companies within the EU. 30 April 2020 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with InternaWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions opinions. do not cover the corporate governance report on pages 47-51. The statutory administration report is consistent Key Audit Matters with the other parts of the annual accounts and consoliKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, dated accounts. in our professional judgment, were of most significance 86 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Revenue recognition do not express any form of assurance conclusion reDirector intends to liquidate the company, to cease opaccounts of the current period. These matters were adRisk description garding this other information. erations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. dressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our The group’s sales as of April 30, 2020 amounts to SEK opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated 8,758.3 million. The company recognizes revenue at In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate the time of sales/delivery to the customer when material consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in generopinion on these matters. performance obligations are fulfilled. Revenue recoginformation identified above and consider whether the al, among other things oversee the company’s financial nition has been identified as a key audit matter since information is materially inconsistent with the annual reporting process. Valuation of inventories sales comprise a significant financial statement line item accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure Risk description and consists of a large number of small transactions, in we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obAuditor’s responsibility Clas Ohlson report inventories of SEK 1 811 million as of all material aspects to consumers through own stores tained in the audit and assess whether the information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance April 30, 2020. Inventories comprise a substantial part of with upfront payment. For further information refer to otherwise appears to be materially misstated. about whether the annual accounts and consolidated the group’s assets and consists of a large number of arRisk assessment and control activities on page 51 and accounts as a whole are free from material misstateticles assorted over 228 stores and a central warehouse. note 33 segment reporting. If we, based on the work performed concerning this ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Inventory is accounted for at the lower of cost and net information, conclude that there is a material misstateauditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonasales value. Inventory accounting is subject to significant Our audit included but was not limited to the following ment of this other information, we are required to report ble assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a judgment and estimates, mainly related to obsolescence, audit procedures: that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with calculation of costs included in the inventory value and • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s process for revenue recogISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Swesupplier bonuses. In addition, we have considered the nition, handling of cash and evaluation of the control Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the den will always detect a material misstatement when it large transaction volumes and the complexity due to the environment. Managing Director exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and number of warehouse locations. For further information, • Analytical audit procedures of recorded revenue and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are are considered material if, individually or in the aggreplease refer to the Risk assessment and control activities reconciliation of total sales on receipt level traced responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence on page 51, Estimates and assumptions on page 65, against the corresponding movement in inventory faand consolidated accounts and that they give a fair the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of group accounting principles for inventory on pages 67 cilitated by data analytics tools. presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. and note 13. • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s analysis and evaluation of Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in acfluctuations in the gross margin. cordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board A further description of our responsibilities for the audit Our audit included but was not limited to the following • Auditing of the process of handling cash in a selection of Directors and the Managing Director are also reof the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is audit procedures: of stores. sponsible for such internal control as they determine is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors web• Auditing Clas Ohlson’s control environment for invento• Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting princinecessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts site: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This ry management and procurement. ples and relevant disclosures. and consolidated accounts that are free from material description forms part of the auditor’s report. • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s applied calculations of costs misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. included in the inventory value. Other information than the annual accounts and Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • Auditing of the inventory valuation as the lower of cost consolidated accounts In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated acOpinions and net sales value and applied model for obsolesThis document also contains other information than counts, The Board of Directors and the Managing DirecIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and cence. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s consolidated accounts, we have also audited the ad• Completeness testing with data analytics covering all found on pages 3-34 and 89-118. The Board of Direcand the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. ministration of the Board of Directors and the Managing inand outgoing deliveries from the warehouses. tors and the Managing Director are responsible for this They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going Director of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) for the financial year • Participating in stock taking for selected stores and other information. concern and using the going concern basis of account2019-05-01 2020-04-30 and the proposed appropriaClas Ohlson’s distribution central in Insjön. ing. The going concern basis of accounting is however tions of the company’s profit or loss. • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting princiOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing ples and relevant disclosures. accounts does not cover this other information and we 87 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing DirecSwedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: www.revithat the profit to be appropriated in accordance with the tor shall manage the ongoing administration according sorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description proposal in the statutory administration report and that to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions forms part of the auditor’s report. the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing and among other matters take measures that are necDirector be discharged from liability for the financial year. essary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance Auditor’s examination of the corporate governwith law and handle the management of assets in a ance report Basis for Opinions reassuring manner. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corpoWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally rate governance statement on pages 47–51 has been accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsiAuditor’s responsibility prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. bilities under those standards are further described in Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independand thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, Our examination of the corporate governance statement ent of the parent company and the group in accordance is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standwith professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and degree of assurance whether any member of the Board ard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in acof Directors or the Managing Director in any material governance statement. This means that our examinacordance with these requirements. respect: tion of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omisin accordance with International Standards on Auditing is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. opinions. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the We believe that the examination has provided us with Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Artisufficient basis for our opinions. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the cles of Association. Managing Director A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed apDisclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the propriations of the company’s profit or loss, and theresecond paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of by our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph whether the dividend is justifiable considering the redegree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordthe same law are consistent with the other parts of the quirements which the company’s and the group’s type ance with the Companies Act. annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in of operations, size and risks place on the size of the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, requirements, liquidity and position in general. but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in acDeloitte AB, was appointed auditor of Clas Ohlson AB by cordance with generally accepted auditing standards the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2019-09The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that 07 and has been the company’s auditor since 2013-09-07. organization and the administration of the company’s can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proaffairs. This includes among other things continuous posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are Insjön, June 29 2020 assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial not in accordance with the Companies Act. Deloitte AB situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of A further description of our responsibilities for the audit assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are of the management’s administration is located at the Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant 88 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Quarterly results Key ratio definitions 2019/20 2018/19 Clas Ohlson uses certain financial measures in this Comprehensive income per share Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 annual report that are not defined in accordance with Comprehensive income divided by average number of 1 May 1 Aug 1 Nov 1 Feb 1 May 1 Aug 1 Nov 1 Feb 2019 2019 2019 2020 2018 2018 2018 2019 IFRS. Clas Ohlson believes that these key ratios are shares before dilution. -31 Jul -31 Oct -31 Jan -30 Apr -31 Jul -31 Oct -31 Jan -30 Apr relevant to users of the financial report as a suppleMSEK 2019 2019 2020 2020 2018 2018 2019 2019 ment for assessing Clas Ohlson’s performance. These Dividend yield Sales 2,044.0 2,165.4 2,905.4 1,643.5 1,958.1 2,157.1 2,914.8 1,742.2 financial measures are not always comparable with the Dividend per share divided by the year-end share price. Cost of goods sold -1,264.3 -1,274.8 -1,741.2 -987.8 -1,203.8 -1,260.1 -1,736.3 -1,077.3 measures used by other companies since not all companies calculate such financial measures in the same Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Gross proft 779.7 890.6 1,164.1 655.7 754.3 897.0 1,178.5 664.8 way. Accordingly, these financial measures are not to be Profit for the period divided by the number of shares regarded as a replacement for measures defined ac(before and after dilution). Selling expenses -641.5 -700.1 -732.2 -646.2 -659.2 -787.2 -799.9 -692.7 cording to IFRS. The measures not defined according to Administrative expenses -58.7 -57.6 -53.6 -50.9 -63.0 -76.8 -62.4 -51.0 IFRS are presented below, unless otherwise stated. EBITDA Other operation income/expenses -0.1 -0.3 -0.3 0.6 -0.2 0.4 -211.1 2.2 Operating profit/loss before interest, tax, depreciation Operating profit/loss 79.4 132.6 378.1 -40.9 32.0 33.4 105.2 -76.6 Average inventory value and amortisation. Average inventory value is calculated as the total invenFinancial income 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.1 tories for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. EBITDA excl IFRS 16 Financial expense -16.7 -16.7 -16.6 -17.6 -0.6 -0.8 -1.6 -0.3 Operating profit/loss before interest, tax, depreciation Profit before tax 62.7 116.0 361.5 -58.5 31.7 32.9 104.1 -76.9 Capital employed and amortisation excl effect on operating costs accordBalance-sheet total (total assets) less current liabilities ing to IFRS 16. Income tax -13.9 -25.3 -78.6 12.0 -1.9 -7.9 -25.5 15.1 and noncurrent liabilities, non-interest-bearing liabilities. Profit/loss for the period 48.8 90.7 282.9 -46.5 29.7 25.0 78.6 -61.8 Equity/assets ratio Cash flow from operating activities Equity at the end of the period divided by the balKey ratios for the period Operating profit adjusted for items not included in cash ance-sheet total (total assets). Gross margin, % 38.1 41.1 40.1 39.9 38.5 41.6 40.4 38.2 flow, interest, paid tax and change in working capital. Operating margin, % 3.9 6.1 13.0 -2.5 1.6 1.6 3.6 -4.4 Equity/assets ratio excl IFRS 16 Earnings per share Cash flow from operating activities excl IFRS 16 Equity at the end of the period divided by the bal0.77 1.43 4.47 -0.73 0.47 0.40 1.24 -0.98 before dilution, SEK Operating profit adjusted for items not included in cash ance-sheet total (total assets) excl effects relating to Earnings per share flow, interest, paid tax and change in working capital equity and lease liabilities according to IFRS 16. 0.77 1.43 4.47 -0.73 0.47 0.40 1.24 -0.98 after dilution, SEK excl effect on operating costs, interest and depreciation according to IFRS 16. Equity per share Comments to the quarterly results Seasonal fluctuations Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at No new store (3) were opened during the first quarClas Ohlson’s market and operations are influenced by Cash flow from operating activities per share the end of the period. ter 2019/20 and zero stores were closed (0). Two new consumer purchasing behaviour. The company’s prodCash flow from operating activities divided by the averstores (6) were opened during the second quarter and uct range is particularly well suited to Christmas prepaage number of shares before dilution. Gross margin two stores were closed (1). In the third quarter no store rations and Christmas shopping, which means that the Gross profit divided by sales for the period. (1) were opened and two stores were closed (0). One third quarter (NovemberJanuary) is generally the strongCash flow from operating activities per share excl store (1) were opened during the fourth quarter and est quarter of the financial year. This is followed by the IFRS 16 Gross profit three stores were closed (7). second and first quarters and, finally, the fourth quarter, Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average Gross profit is calculated as the total of sales less cost which is the weakest in terms of sales and profit. number of shares before dilution excl effect on operating of goods sold. costs, interest and amortization according to IFRS 16. 89 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Glossary Net debt Payout ratio Average receipt GRI Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivaDividend divided by earnings per share before dilution. Average amount per purchase. The Global Reporting Initiative, a global standard for lents. sustainability reporting. Return on equity Clas Office Net debt excl IFRS 16 Net profit for the period expressed as a percentage of Our concept that facilitates purchases for our corporate Level of service Interest-bearing liabilities excl interest-bearing lease liaaverage equity. Average equity is calculated as the total customers. Percentage of product range that is available “on the bilities less cash and cash equivalents. equity for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. shelf” in our sales channels. Club Clas Net debt/EBITDA Return on capital employed Our loyalty program, our loyalty club. Nasdaq Stockholm Net debt divided by EBITDA for the last 12 months. Operating profit plus financial income expressed as a Marketplace for trading with securities, where Clas Ohlpercentage of average capital employed. Average capiCO100+ son’s B share is listed. Non-recurring costs tal employed is calculated as the total capital employed An action programme where our strategic initiatives Cost that is not regularly found in the business. for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. have been defined. The programme contains initiatives Omni-channel to drive sales growth and cost reductions mainly in the A shopping experience where customers perceive a Operating margin Sales growth following areas: A more optimised product range, enseamless interaction between physical stores, the online Operating profit divided by sales for the period. Sales in relation to sales during the year-earlier period. hanced purchasing efficiency, administration, logistics store and telephone sales. and customer offering. Operating margin excl IFRS 16 Share of selling expenses, % Products for a more sustainable lifestyle Operating profit, excl effects on operating costs accordSelling expenses in relation to sales. Code of Conduct Products with a positive, or significantly lower, environing to IFRS 16, divided by sales for the period. The standards we set for ourselves, and the suppliers mental impact throughout their life cycle than a standUnderlying operating profit/loss of our products and services, regarding working condiard product. Operating profit Operating profit excl effects relating to IFRS 16 adjusted tions, workplace health and safety and the environment. Operating profit comprises profit before financial items for nonrecurring costs and costs related to the CO100+ Sales per square metre and tax. action programme. Comparable units Store sales in relation to the effective retail space. For Units that have been in operation during the current penew stores, a conversion has been made in relation to Operating profit excl IFRS 16 Total return riod and the entire year-earlier period. how long the store has been open. Operating profit comprises profit before financial items The sum of the share price change during the period and tax, excl effects on operating costs according to and paid dividend in relation to the share price at the Conversion rate Store traffic IFRS 16. beginning of year. The percentage of visitors who make a purchase. Number of visitors. Organic growth Working capital GDPR UN Global Compact Sales growth in local currencies, excluding acquisitions. The total of current assets, minus cash and cash equivThe EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation sets UN international principles regarding human rights, laalents (inventories and current receivables), less current requirements covering the handling of personal data bour standards, the environment and corruption, deP/E ratio non-interestbearing liabilities. and applies in all EU countries from May 2018. signed for companies. Share price at year-end divided by earnings per share * Defined in accordance with IFRS. before dilution. 90 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Alternative Average inventory value Comprehensive income per share Group Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Performance Average inventory value 1,968.1 2,049.0 Comprehensive income for the period 357.9 79.9 Average number of shares before dilution 63.274 63.217 Comprehensive income per share 5.66 1.26 Capital employed Measures Group Dividend Yield 2019/20 2018/19 Group Total assets 5,782.4 3,976.9 2019/20 2018/19 Long-term non-interest-bearing liabilities -232.1 -204.8 Dividend per share 6.25 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,523.8 -1,541.7 Share price 30 April 85.6 78.8 Capital employed 4,026.5 2,230.5 Dividend Yield 7.9 % Reason for use: Capital employed measures the company’s ability, in addition to cash balances and cash and cash equivalents, to meet the This section contains a reconciliation of needs of the operations. Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Group certain alternative performance measures Cash flow from operating activities per share Group Profit for the year 2019/20 375.9 2018/19 71.6 (APMs) with the closest reconcilable items 2019/20 2018/19 Number of shares before dilution Number of shares after dilution 63.274 63.298 63.218 63.230 in the financial statements. Cash flow from operating activities 1,283.9 312.0 Number of shares before dilution 5.94 1.13 Number of shares before the dilution 63.274 63.218 Number of shares after dilution 5.94 1.13 Cash flow from operating activities per share 20.29 4.93 * Defineras enligt IFRS Reason for use: Cash flow from operating activities per share measures the cash flow that the company generates per share before capital investments and cash flows attributable to the company’s EBITDA As analysis tools, APMs are limited, and must be conAPMs, for example, to evaluate the operating activities financing. sidered in their context and not as a replacement of compared with previous results, for internal planning Group financial measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. and forecasts and to calculate certain performance-reCash flow from operating activities per share excl IFRS 16 2019/20 2018/19 APMs are presented to improve an investor’s evaluation lated remuneration. For definitions, refer to pages 89Operating profit 549.2 94.0 of the operations, as an aid in forecasts of forthcom90. The APMs recognised in this annual report may Group ing periods, and to simplify meaningful comparisons differ from similarly named measures used by other 2019/20 2018/19 Depreciation 687.3 236.9 of earnings between periods. Management uses these companies. Cash flow from operating activities excl IFRS 16 817.1 312.0 EBITDA 1,236.5 331.0 Number of shares before the dilution 63.274 63.218 Cash flow from operating activities per share excl Reason for use: Measures the operative financial performance be12.91 4.93 IFRS 16 fore depreciation Reason for use: Cash flow from operating activities per share measures the cash flow that the company generates per share before capital investments and cash flows attributable to the company’s financing. 91 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE EBITDA excl IFRS 16 Equity per share Net debt Operating margin excl IFRS 16 Group Group Group Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Operating profit excl IFRS 16 453.8 94.0 Total equity 1,763.1 1,947.3 Interest bearing liabilities 2,263.4 283.1 Operating profit excl IFRS 16 453.8 94.0 Depreciation excl IFRS 16 215.7 236.9 Number of shares at end of period 63.337 63.218 Cash and cash equivalents 80.1 105.0 Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 EBITDA excl IFRS 16 669.5 331.0 Equity per share 27.84 30.80 Total Net debt 2,183.3 178.1 Operating margin excl IFRS 16 5.2% 1.1% Reason for use: Measures the operative financial performance beReason for use: Equity per share measures the company’s net value Reason for use: Net debt shows the company’s indebtedness over Reason for use: The operating margin shows operating profit as a perfore depreciation per share and determines whether a company increases its shareholdtime centage of net sales and shows operational profitability. ers’ capital over time. Equity/assets ratio Net debt excl IFRS 16 Payout ratio Group Group Gross margin Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Group 2019/20 2018/19 Interest bearing liabilities excl lease liabilities 67.2 283.1 Total equity 1,763.1 1,947.3 2019/20 2018/19 Dividend 6.25 Cash and cash equivalents 80.1 105.0 Total assets 5,782.4 3,976.9 Gross profit 3,490.2 3,494.8 Earnings per share before dilution 5.94 1.13 Total Net debt excl IFRS 16 -12.9 178.1 Equity/assets ratio 30.5 % 49.0 % Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 Payout ratio 553.1 % Reason for use: A high equity/assets ratio provides the financial Gross margin 39.8 % 39.8 % Reason for use: Net debt shows the company’s indebtedness over scope and independence required for conducting the operations and time managing variations in the need for working capital and for capitalising Reason for use: Gross margin shows the difference between net Return on capital employed on business opportunities. sales and the cost of goods sold expressed as a percentage of net Group sales. Gross margin is affected by several factors, for example, prodOperating margin uct mix, price trend and cost reductions. 2019/20 2018/19 Equity/assets ratio excl IFRS 16 Group Operating profit 549.2 94.0 Group Gross Profit 2019/20 2018/19 Interest income 0.1 1.1 Operating profit 549.2 94.0 Average capital employed 4,056.1 2,345.2 2019/20 2018/19 Group Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 Return on caital employed 13.5 % 4.1 % Total equity excl IFRS 16 1,899.4 1,947.3 2019/20 2018/19 Operating margin 6.3 % 1.1 % Total assets excl IFRS 16 3,722.6 3,976.9 Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 Reason for use: Return on capital employed is a measure of profitaEquity/assets ratio excl IFRS 16 51.0% 49.0% Cost of goods sold -5,268.1 -5,277.5 Reason for use: The operating margin shows operating profit as a perbility after taking into account the amount of capital used. A higher reGross profit 3,490.2 3,494.8 centage of net sales and shows operational profitability. turn on capital employed indicates that capital is used more efficiently Reason for use: A high equity/assets ratio provides the financial scope and independence required for conducting the operations and managing variations in the need for working capital and for capitalising Reason for use: Gross profit shows the difference between net sales on business opportunities. and the cost of goods sold. Gross profit is affected by several factors, for example, product mix, price trend and cost reductions. 92 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Return on equity Underlying operating profit Group Group 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 Operating profit excl IFRS 16 453.8 94.0 Average equity 1,758.0 2,062.1 Non-recurring costs and costs for action program 127.3 403.0 CO100+ Return on equity 21.4 % 3.5 % Underlying operationg profit 581.1 497.0 Reason for use: Return on equity is a measure of profitability in relation to the carrying amount of equity. Return on equity is also a measReason for use: Underlying operating profit is intended to show ure of how investments are used to generate increased income. operating profit adjusted for non-recurring expenses and costs associated with action program CO100+ Sales growth Group Working capital 2019/20 2018/19 Group Sales actual period 8,758.3 8,772.3 2019/20 2018/19 Sales previous period 8,772.3 8,210.7 Total current assets 2,071.0 2,341.7 Sales growth -0.2 % 6.8 % Cash and cash equivalents -80.1 -105.0 Current non-interest bearing liabilities -1,523.8 -1,541.7 Reason for use: The change in sales reflects the company’s realised sales growth over time. Working capital 467.1 695.0 Reason for use: Working capital is used to measure the company’s Total return ability to meet short-term capital requirements Group 2019/20 2018/19 Share price at the beginning of the year 78.8 96.0 Share price at the end of the year 85.6 78.8 Re-invested dividend 6.25 6.25 Total 13.00 -10.95 Total return 16.50 % -11.41 % 93 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Ten-year summary MSEK 2019/20 2018/2019 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 MSEK 2019/20 2018/2019 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 INCOME STATEMENT KEY RATIOS Sales 8,758.3 8,772.3 8,210.7 7,990.1 7,601.6 7,329.8 6,807.7 6,518.9 6,260.0 5,828.0 Growth in sales, % -0.2 6.8 2.8 5.1 3.7 7.7 4.4 4.1 7.4 4.9 Operating profit 549.2 94.0 468.3 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 430.6 560.6 507.1 Gross margin, % 39.8 39.8 40.0 41.2 42.4 42.9 42.6 41.6 42.1 41.6 Operating profit, excl IFRS 16 453.8 94.0 468.3 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 430.6 560.6 507.1 Operating margin, % 6.3 1.1 5.7 7.6 6.7 8.1 7.8 6.6 9.0 8.7 Underlying operating profit 581.1 497.0 538.0 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 430.6 560.6 507.1 Operating margin, excl IFRS 16, % 5.2 1.1 5.7 7.6 6.7 8.1 7.8 6.6 9.0 8.7 Profit before tax 481.8 91.9 467.1 608.9 507.6 597.2 530.2 419.9 551.0 499.0 Return on capital employed, % 13.5 4.1 21.0 28.4 23.6 29.3 28.0 23.2 27.9 24.6 Income tax -105.8 -20.3 -109.3 -130.2 -128.8 -138.3 -124.8 -88.4 -150.5 -134.6 Return on equity, % 21.4 3.5 16.0 22.4 17.6 22.5 21.7 18.3 23.1 22.5 Profit for the year 375.9 71.6 357.8 478.7 378.8 458.9 405.4 331.5 400.5 364.4 Equity/assets ratio, % 30.5 49.0 53.9 57.7 54.5 57.3 58.3 59.1 60.3 51.5 Equity/assets ratio, excl IFRS 16, % 51.0 49.0 53.9 57.7 54.5 57.3 58.3 59.1 60.3 51.5 BALANCE SHEET Net debt/EBITDA 1.8 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.1 Non-current assets 1,323.8 1,388.5 1,469.5 1,404.5 1,397.8 1,399.9 1,424.2 1,461.6 1,515.0 1,469.5 Net debt/EBITDA, excl IFRS 16 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.1 Right-of-use assets 2,059.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales per square metre in store, SEK 31.9 30.8 31 31 30 30 30 31 34 34 thousand Non-current receivables 327.7 246.8 239.4 18.5 18.1 11.6 8.1 3.2 3.5 10.9 Number of stores at year-end 228 232 229 216 205 198 185 174 157 139 Inventories 1,811.2 1,987.3 2,038.0 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,569.3 1,348.2 1,303.9 1,228.7 1,429.2 Number of full-time equivalent Current receivables 179.8 249.4 336.9 220.6 263.4 242.5 229.5 214.9 197.5 176.7 2 987 3 099 2 951 2 835 2 787 2 736 2 629 2 524 2 370 2 219 employees Cash and cash equivalents 80.1 105.0 115.8 625.1 604.3 517.4 358.3 124.6 111.8 132.6 Total assets 5,782.4 3,976.9 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 3,056.5 3,218.9 DATA PER SHARE Average number of shares before 63,273,680 63,217,741 63,200,598 63,052,803 63,167,924 63,121,729 63,137,148 63,349,241 63,635,998 63,802,230 Equity attributable to owners of the dilution 1,756.9 1,940.8 2,263.9 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 1,836.5 1,843.8 1,656.8 parent Average number of shares after dilu63,297,575 63,230,062 63,311,743 63,254,614 63,461,923 63,400,934 63,243,692 63,421,154 63,702,052 63,870,584 Equity attributable to non-controlling tion 6.2 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 interests Number of shares at period end 63,337,447 63,217,794 63,208,135 63,083,438 63,376,420 63,216,061 63,140,994 63,287,808 63,615,000 63,710,000 Equity 1,763.1 1,947.3 2,263.9 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 1,836.5 1,843.8 1,656.8 Earnings per share before dilution, 5.94 1.13 5.66 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 5.23 6.29 5.71 Long-term lease liabilities, interest SEK 1,672.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 bearing Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 5.94 1.13 5.65 7.57 5.97 7.24 6.41 5.23 6.29 5.71 Non-current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 300.0 Comprehensive income per share, 5.66 1.26 6.37 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 4.68 6.75 4.79 Non-current liabilities, non-interSEK 232.1 204.8 227.4 226.8 195.2 213.3 206.5 185.7 195.7 165.9 est-bearing Cash flow per share, SEK 20.29 4.93 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 8.17 15.16 5.49 Current lease liabilities, interest bear523.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash flow per share excl IFRS 16, ing 12.91 4.93 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 8.17 15.16 5.49 SEK Current liabilities, interest-bearing 67.2 283.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 30.0 261.7 Equity per share, SEK 27.84 30.8 35.82 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 29.02 28.98 26.01 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 1,523.8 1,541.7 1,708.4 1,421.9 1,588.8 1,382.9 1,196.9 1,086.0 987.0 834.5 Share price 30 April, SEK 85.55 78.8 96 147 162 143 143 87 99 98 Total equity and liabilities 5,782.4 3,976.9 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 3,056.5 3,218.9 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 4.25 4.25 3.75 P/E ratio 14 70 17 19 27 20 22 17 16 17 CASH FLOW Dividend Yield,% 7.9 6.5 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 4.9 4.3 3.8 Cash flow from operating activities 1,283.9 312.0 372.8 698.9 704.6 647.3 689.1 517.8 964.9 350.3 Investments -231.0 -211.4 -497.2 -263.5 -274.1 -192.3 -171.8 -166.5 -206.1 -295.3 Cash flow after investments 1,052.9 100.5 -124.4 435.4 430.5 455.0 517.3 351.3 758.8 55.0 Financing activities -1,073.2 -112.0 -389.8 -418.0 -335.9 -298.9 -283.6 -334.4 -781.5 -6.0 Cash flow for the year -20.3 -11.5 -514.2 17.5 94.6 156.1 233.7 16.9 -22.7 49.0 94 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Comments* Sales Operating margin Sales in the Nordics increased by 2 per cent to 8,666 MSEK The operating margin was 6.3 per cent (1.1). IFRS 16 had a (8,489), organic growth up 3 per cent, and total sales and organic positive effect on operating margin of 1.1 percentage points. growth were unchanged at 8,758 MSEK (8,772). Cash flow Number of stores Cash flow from operating activities for the financial year amountDuring the financial year, three new stores (11) opened, one in ed to 1,284 MSEK (312). Cash flow for the period after investSweden and two in Finland. During the fiscal year, seven stores ing and financing activities was -20 MSEK (-11). Excluding the (8) have been closed, four in Finland, two in UK and one in effect of IFRS 16, cash flow from operating activities amounted Sweden. The number of stores at the end of the period was to 817.1 MSEK and cash flow from financing activities to -606.4 228, of which 97 in Sweden, 90 in Norway, 40 in Finland and MSEK. The cash dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s shareholders one in the UK. during the financial year totalled 395 MSEK (395). Gross Margin The gross margin was 39.8 per cent (39.8). During the finanReturn cial year, the gross margin was positively impacted by effects The return on capital employed amounted to 13.5 per cent (4.1) from currency hedging (NOK) from currency forwards and exand the return on equity was 21.4 per cent (3.5). change-rate effects related to delays in inventory, an improved * Refers to the financial year 2019/20. product mix and lower sourcing costs. This was offset by a stronger purchasing currency (USD) and a weaker sales currency (NOK). Operating profit Operating profit amounted to MSEK 549 (94). IFRS 16 had a positive effect of 95 MSEK on operating profit, resulting in operating profit of 454 MSEK excluding this effect. Earnings were affected by non-recurring costs and costs linked to the CO100+ action programme totalling approximately 127 MSEK (405). Underlying operating profit amounted to 581 MSEK (497). 95 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STORES XXXX THE SHARE Sustainability report 2019/20 97 About the sustainability report 98 Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle 99 Materiality analysis 100 Transparent dialogue for development 101 A positive force in society 103 Our value chain 104 Climate consideration 106 Sustainable products 107 Ethical business 108 Controlling the supply chain 109 Clas Ohlson’s contributions to the SDGs 110 GRI Index 96 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A NCLAS U S T A ANNUAL D SOHLSON I N A B IAND L I TSUSTAINABILITY Y R E P O R REPORT T 2 0 12019/20 9/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Information about the sustainability report As a signatory of the Global Compact, this Annual and Sustainability Report comprises Clas Ohlson’s Communication on Progress (COP). In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Clas Ohlson has chosen to prepare its statutory sustainability report separately from its Annual Report. The table below shows where the requirements for sustainability information are presented in this Annual and Auditor’s report on the amination of the statutory sustainability report Sustainability Report. statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than To the general meeting of the shareholders in an audit conducted in accordance with InterClas Ohlson AB (publ), corporate identity numnational Standards on Auditing and generally Area Description Page reference ber 556035-8672. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us General Business model 12-16 Engagement and responsibility with sufficient basis for our opinion. Environment Policy and environmental issues 98, 103-106 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible Risks and risk management in environmental issues 41-45 Targets and results related to environmental issues 16, 104-105 for the statutory sustainability report for the Opinion financial year 2019-05-01 to 2020-04-30 and A statutory sustainability report has been preSocial Policy and social issues 98 conditions Risks and risk management in social issues 41-45 that it is prepared in accordance with the Annupared. Targets and results related to social issues 15-16 al Accounts Act. Employees Policy and personnel issues 98 Insjön, 29 June 2020, Deloitte AB Risks and risk management in personnel issues 41-45 Targets and results related to personnel issues 15-16 The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in acRespect for human Policy and human rights 98, 108 rights Risks and risk management in human rights 41-45 cordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR Kent Åkerlund Targets and results related to human rights 15-16 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory Authorised Public Accountant Anti-corruption Anti-corruption policy 98, 107 sustainability report. This means that our exRisks and risk management in anti-corruption 41-45 Targets and results related to anti-corruption 15-16 97 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Governance for a Policies • Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct more sustainable • Clas Ohlson’s Code of Business Ethics • Diversity policy • IT policy • Security policy lifestyle • Information policy • Insider policy We integrate key sustainability issues into our strategy, business model and governance. Sustainability issues are a basic part of our operations and are not something that we manage separately­. Every employee and function works with sustainability as a natural feature of all our day-to-day activities and in strategic work. Our strategy, 100 more years, entails that we sustainability training courses tailored to each Forum, which holds monthly meetings. The will be a meaningful and trusted brand and season so that employees in our stores can Board of Directors is updated regularly regardcompany, and we can only achieve this if we feel secure in helping our customers to live a ing sustainability work being conducted in the genuinely drive sustainability in all of our chanmore sustainable lifestyle. company and the sustainability risks are reportnels and dimensions. It is the responsibility of ed not less than twice a year within the frameeach function to drive and pursue this work The overall strategy for our sustainability tarwork of risk reviews. based on our values, our Code of Conduct and gets and level of ambition is decided annually International initiatives/framework for sustainable development our sustainability targets. All employees are by the Board of Directors. The responsibility for Our owners, partners and our customers also • Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals also informed continuously about our sustainfollowing up the established strategy, targets set demands for our sustainability work. • Global Compact ability agenda, have access to training (digitally and initiatives resulting from the sustainabili• Convention on the Rights of the Child and Children’s Rights and and in seminars), and were involved to varying ty agenda lies with Group Management and Our reporting, such as in our annual SustainBusiness Principles degrees in different initiatives during the finanthe Head of Sustainability, who is a member ability Report, GRI reporting and that to CDP, • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and cial year. We believe this is the way to achieve of Group Management and reports directly to also comprises an important part of the govRights at Work the best results, a business that is sustainable the President and CEO. Continuous follow-up ernance of our sustainability activities. • UN National Action Plans on Business and Human Rights in all areas and strong commitment from our of the operations and collaboration across the • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises employees. During the year, we launched new functions are conducted in the Sustainability 98 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Materiality analysis The materiality analysis constitutes the basis for our way of working on sustainability and how we report our social and environmental impact. The materiality analysis contributes to identi100 more years. Last year, we reworked the fying the issues that are most relevant for detargets for 2020 into a format that corresponds We help people help livering long-term value creation to our most important stakeholders. It also enables identito the strategy. Clas Ohlson demonstrated its commitment in differfication of the impacts of our business model A review of the results of the materiality analent ways during the initial phases of the outbreak of on the environment and society and the most ysis was carried out under the framework of the corona pandemic. For example, we supported important contributions to our overall operathe sustainability strategy efforts performed the mass manufacture of visor holders for healthtional targets, and to building Clas Ohlson as a in spring 2020 that will be launched in the care personnel that was initiated and organised in a meaningful and trusted brand and company. 2020/21 financial year. Stakeholder dialogues Facebook group for 3D printer enthusiasts. We cut were also held with institutional investors. Furthe price of filament by 30 per cent in the non-comThe materiality analysis was updated in spring thermore, the materiality analysis was updated mercial initiative that took place with no marketing 2018 to identify the areas with the greatest relbased on a customer perspective. whatsoever from Clas Ohlson. The discount was evance based on our new strategy framework only communicated in the Facebook group after an employee responded to an inquiry. We also produced visor holders in our own 3D printers at our customer service centre that were donated to the healthcare services. 99 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Transparent CUSTOMERS Understanding our customers and their needs and expectations is vital to succeed in a competitive market. We interact with our customers dialogue for every day in our stores and through our customer service centre. The 2.8 million members of our Club Clas loyalty club also provide valuable information and important insight into development how we can improve our offering. Our regular customer survey shows that we have very high customer satisfaction in all markets and that customers are very likely to recommend us to their friends and acquaintances. Our customers want relevant, innovative products and services A meaningful and trusted brand with superior environmental performance. We also see that availability is increasingly critical company now has about 38,500 shareholders. pose. Important issues are discussed during and company that delivers susto making a purchase. This applies to both the physical stores and online. Many shareholders have been with us for many years. Stable, engaged owners are pivotal for regular contact with suppliers, on various training courses and as part of audits. Increasing tainable profitable growth must EMPLOYEES long-term profitability and sustainable development. We meet our shareholders at the Annual numbers of suppliers want to move away from only supplying goods and to move towards be aware of and capitalise on Approximately 4,500 co-workers in five countries strive to provide our customers the very General Meeting, at shareholders and investor meetings, and at Capital Markets Days. Meetentering strategic partnerships based on jointly established targets. stakeholder requirements and exbest service and the best offering. Committed and goal-oriented employees are fundamental ings with our major long-term shareholders usually take place in connection with interim SOCIETY pectations. We maintain a close to our growth and development, as are leadership, diversity, skills development, flexibility reporting. Important information about shareholder value is obtained via the Nomination We influence, and are influenced by players in society at global, national and local levels that dialogue with our customers, emand a focus on health and well-being. We carry out a survey every other year and ask employCommittee and the Board. Shareholders value long-term sustainable and profitable growth as encourage companies to assume a broader responsibility. The UN 17 Sustainable Develployees, suppliers, owners and ees about their opinion of Clas Ohlson, our strengths and areas for improvement. The most one of the most important issues. opment Goals were launched in 2015 and give businesses a more prominent role in solving various players in society to unrecent employee survey, carried out at the start of 2020, showed a healthy work climate and SUPPLIERS We have close and trusting working relationthe challenges faced by society. This increases expectations that we understand our impact derstand their view of our operagood leadership. About 75 per cent of employees are proud of working at Clas Ohlson, and ships with about 670 suppliers in Europe and 690 manufacturers in Asia. A strong supplialong the value chain, manage it accordingly, and comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten tions and the future, which helps the majority would recommend us to others as an employer. er network is a prerequisite for an affordable, innovative and sustainable offering. We are principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Clas Ohlson us set our strategy. SHAREHOLDERS constantly moving towards products under our proprietary brands and suppliers expect a expects to assume increased responsibility for the company’s indirect impact and to make use Clas Ohlson Series B shares have been listlong-term partnership and scope in return for of innovation to promote more sustainable deed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999 and the meeting the robust requirements that we imvelopment. 100 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE A positive force in society Sustainability is a prerequisite for our business model, our brand and existence as a company, and thus is an integral part of being a trusted company. By acting as a positive force in the communithe home – and all children’s rights to a secure ties in which we operate, we improve the confihome and childhood. Viewing the impact that dence that our owners, employees, customers, we have from the perspective of future generaand other local stakeholders have in us. We tions promotes our long-term agenda. focus our social responsibilities on initiatives that are close to operations, including the rights The company also acts through the Clas of children and support for the UN Children’s Ohlson Foundation, and the initiatives carried Rights and Business Principles. Our social reout have also focused on children’s rights, such sponsibility is and should be linked to our opas supporting Junior Achievement Sweden erations – that is when it is the most effective (innovations and entrepreneurship for young “I have never done this type of activity with my parents and credible. This focus on children’s rights is people), a partnership with Insjön school and before. They are often busy with their work and don’t also directly connected to our playing field – emergency support for children in need. often have time to play with me. I had great fun that morning because my mum was with me. I also like charades but the words were too easy for me. Next time you should make it more difficult (laughs)!” – Girl, 11. 101 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE The training course on parenting was held by employees at our China office during the year. A parent day was also arranged for parents and their children at three factories, which was attended by ten employees from our office and their children. 50 children were given the opportunity to spend time with their parents. Clas Ohlson and Save the Children initiated a new, three-year partnership that has now been adjusted to better address the new challenges caused by the corona crisis. Focus was thus directed to the digital side and supporting families and children with the challenges arising from corona. Plasters that heal more than wounds A three-year collaboration was initiated with the World Childhood Foundation in Sweden, Norway and Finland in 2019. The collaboration aims to train Clas Ohlson’s employees to become “Safe adults” – children’s rights amDuring the year, we initiated a smartwatch programme to make remote direct communicabassadors who will have the knowledge and tion easier for children and their migrant worker parents. More than 400 watches were givmeans for how, as an adult, to create safety for After selling about en to parents at our suppliers’ factories, which benefited 600 children. children, and to take action against violence 1,100 packets of Childand sexual abuse of children. 1,500 completed hood plasters at his cash the training course during the year, including register, Elvis Stanchev immeemployees within Clas Fix it. diately set a new target of 2,000 packets. Elvis’s drive and untirPromoting parenthood for migrant workers • Support for the Facilitator Migrant Worker The collaboration also include children’s rights ing commitment to vulnerable in China Center in Zhuhai whereby 6,000 children plasters that are sold in all of our stores with all children is an inspiration We have worked together with Save the Chilcould participate in after-school activities. profits going to the World Childhood Foundato us all. dren since 2012. The aim of the most recent • 1,500 migrant-worker parents in our supply tion. The writing on plaster represents an article three-year training programme was to promote chain took part in the remote training course of the Convention on the Rights of the Child the parenthood of migrant workers and the on parenting, which indirectly helped more and is written so that it can be understood by rights of their children at Clas Ohlson’s supplithan 2,000 children. small children, for example, “No one is allowed ers in China. Some examples of the activities • 3,000 factory workers were given access to a to hurt me.” The packaging also includes a that took place as part of three-year training platform on which they received practical tips folder that helps the person putting on the programme that was concluded during the for balancing being a parent and work. plaster to explain about children’s rights. financial year are: 102 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Our value chain We take responsibility for all our operations, and integrate our susOur responsibility extends beyond our own operations’ direct impact to also encompass impacts that we contribute to or which we are connected tainability initiatives along our entire value chain to ensure that over to through our business relations with, for example, suppliers, transport companies, strategic partners and customers. the long term it will be as resource-efficient as possible. Managing We also have considerable scope for influencing the various parts of the our positive and negative impact in an effective manner requires value chain. that we work on the material issues along the entire value chain. Taking into consideration the entire value chain helps us to identify opportunities and risks, to understand boundaries and how we can create value for our stakeholders. Product ManufacturTransportaOperations Sales Home delivery Product and End of proddevelopment ing tion service use uct life AREA Together with strategic suppliers for 69 per cent of our products manu1,492 million tonne kilometres of About 4,500 employees in five coun228 stores in four countries and Promote environmentally friendly Sustainable products and service Participate in collection and recycling our proprietary brands. factured in Asia. product transports. tries. online shopping in five countries. alternatives for home delivery of our that help our customers to live more schemes. online shopping products. sustainably. ISSUES • Water and energy efficiency • Code of Conduct and • Emissions of CO2 and • Skills development • Availability of products that have a • Work to limit CO2 emissions in the • Product life • Waste • More sustainable material quality requirements energy consumption • Diversity high environmental performance logistics chain • Environmental impact during the • Recycling • Packaging • Anti-corruption and bribes • Transportation efficiency • Health and well-being • Products and services for a more • Transportation efficiency, optimisaproduct’s service life • Reuse • Recycling opportunities • Human rights in new and existing • Fill rate and freight consolidation • Young employees sustainable tion and consolidation • Hazardous chemicals • Producer responsibility and collection • Functionality markets • Energy efficiency and waste lifestyle that promotes a circular • Expanded selection to consumers • Product safety systems • Product life • Migrant worker conditions • Anti-corruption and bribes economy of environmentally friendly delivery • Services for a more sustainable • Chemicals • Energy efficiency in stores options lifestyle and circular economy • Information and training regarding • Spare parts environment and littering VALUE CRE• Reduced impact from • Improved conditions for suppliers, • Reduced CO2 emissions • A high-performing organisation • Loyal customers • Reduced CO2 emissions • Extended product use • Less waste ATION products during use and when their employees and families and • More cost-efficient transportation • Attract and retain skilled employ• Motivated co-workers • Attractive and relevant selection • High confidence in the products • More material recycling recycling local communities solutions ees • Attractive, unique and relevant with environmentally friendly trans• Less waste and increased resource • Fewer chemicals to the environment • Relevant and unique products • Increased confidence in the Clas • Increased employee commitment product offering portation options as a competitive efficiency Ohlson brand • Skills development in fields such as • Reduced energy costs advantage • Fewer chemicals to the environbusiness ethics • More information about environ• Loyal customers ment mental impact • Committed employees and part• Reduced energy consumption and ners • CO2 emissions • More information about environ• Cost savings mental impact ABILITY TO MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM HIGH HIGH MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM INFLUENCE 103 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Climate Carbon emissions 2016–2019, tCO2e consideration 18,545 SCOPE 3 14,659 14,639 14,431 3,476.9 SCOPE 2 3,282.9 One of our prioritised sustainability areas is re2,897.9 ducing our emissions. We are facing challenges in our times that we have never previously seen. 63.9 1,553.3 55.3 SCOPE 1 43.8 48.7 We must all relate to the challenging condiOur emissions are divided into three scopes: YEAR tions facing our planet. Climate change and the Scope 1 is direct GHG emissions from our own 2016 2017 2018 2019 loss of biodiversity in particular have become operations, Scope 2 is indirect emissions that Total reduction increasingly urgent – these issues are now result from the generation of purchased energy 2016–2019 something that we as a company take very sein our stores, distribution centre and offices, and Reduction Scope 1+2 -5.58% -11.73% -46.40% -55.33% riously so that we can minimise the potentially Scope 3 is other indirect GHG emissions from negative impact of our business. We are now business travel, all incoming and outgoing transReduction Scope 1+2+3 -18.53% -2.14% -8.91% -27.38% developing a sustainability strategy that will be launched in 2020/21 that will include targets for reducing emissions in line with the Paris AgreeScope 3 carbon emissions Scope 1: Pool and property cars, company cars, oil Scope 2: Heating of the distribution centre and head Scope 3: Business travel, all incoming and outgoing ment and limiting global warming to 1.5°C. combustion in the oil-fired boilers at the office in Insjön, energy consumption at the transportation (store and online shopping), distribution centre and head office in Insjön that distribution centre, head office and all stores. waste from the distribution centre and head Specification 2019 is only used as a reserve for district heating office in Insjön. stoppages. We are responsible for our own electricity at Lower emissions during the year more than 70 per cent of our stores, and in Sources: DEFRA 2019 (The Department for 2% We have reported our annual emissions ac1% Sources: DEFRA 2019 (The Department for Sweden we purchase origin labelled renewable Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) with RF Business travel Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) electricity. (radiative forcing, which includes the higher cording to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protoemissions at high altitude), SJ 2018 Annual Waste (DC, head office) Sources: IEA (International Energy Agency) and Sustainability Report, ecoivent (life cycle cols standard to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure 2019, European Residual Mixes 2018, local inventory database). Outgoing transportation Project) since 2015. We report our emissions environmental data from Dala Energi Värme AB. 39% (distribution to stores and Emissions calculations are location-based using every year to better understand where such 58% via online shopping) the Nordic electricity mix emissions take place and take action to reduce them. Incoming transportation (Europe, Asia) All emission data is for the 2019 calendar year. We do not climate compensate for carbon emissions. 104 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE portation and waste from the distribution centre Score of B in CDP ranking and head office. We reduced our GHG emissions under Scope 1 and 2 by slightly more than 46 per cent durP ing the year. S HI D AR EW ST L We work actively on having energy-efficient EN TA NM properties and we have reduced our emissions V I RO Leadership EN A even though the distribution centre has been DS AR operational seven days a week since January TO W Management S ES 2019. The reduction of Scope 1 GHG emisOG R B PR sions was due to fewer district heating stopAwareness pages compared with the preceding year and C lower use of company and pool cars. Disclosure The reduction of Scope 2 GHG emissions was D due to the closure of stores in Germany and the UK, but we also increased energy efficiency by 3.5 percentage points to 19 per cent. CDP Climate Change, international investors’ climate initiative, evaluates and ranks companies’ climate work Low-energy LED lighting in stores improved and emissions. Clas Ohlson has made climate reports to the CDP since 2015 and has advanced from C to B, which means that we have gone from being aware of our environmental impact to managing the impact, risks from 39 to 46 per cent. Emissions were also and opportunities related to this. reduced because our supplier’s emission factor for district heating was lowered. For transportation under Scope 3, we succeeded in reducing our emissions in absolute terms by optimising and enhancing efficiency, increasing the share of fossil-free transportation and reducing air We received external help to quantify our The next step for Clas Ohlson is to quantify its freight. emissions and the initial analysis showed that current footprint in greater detail and to develemissions from materials in our products are op strategies for reducing emissions across the Sustainable value chain the largest source of emissions, and they are entire value chain. We know that this journey will This year, Clas Ohlson embarked on its journey significantly higher than our Scope 1, Scope 2 be long, and we have already started to take imto quantify other GHG emissions (Scope 3) in and transportation emissions. Significant emisportant steps to further strengthen our position its value chain, for example, emissions from sions are also generated from use and waste in sustainable development in the industry. production and use of our products. It is crucial management of sold products. Clas Ohlson’s to include Scope 3 GHG emissions to gain an emissions from the value chain are estimated understanding of Clas Ohlson’s total climate to be 5-10 times higher than reported Scope 1, footprint. Scope 2 and transportation emissions. 105 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Sustainable products To promote an even more sustainable assortment, we have developed an assessment model to continuously make improvements and that we can apply to all product categories. The criteria for sustainable products were upwhen in use or better recyclability). Our specialThe model will be adapted when the sustainadated last year. They are based on regulatory ists analyse every single product. bility strategy is launched in 2020/21. compliance, product development, quality assurance and product information. The basic The assessment model is relative and focusWe created an online landing page for sustainrequirements for all of our products are high es on continual improvement. This means our able products during the year, where customand we carefully check the function and safety model can be used for all types of product, and ers can find selected seasonal products. of products, and apply well-established proceis built on a comparison with the age in which dures as regards the contents. All of our suppliwe live. Our starting point is that the level of During the year, we also started to develop ers always undergo both a CSR and technical knowledge in sustainability and technology is criteria for products with inferior sustainability evaluation for our own products. This means continually improving, which means that prodperformance in our range. Certain products are that we know that our product range maintains ucts need to be re-assessed after a certain being phased out since their service lives are a high level of quality, and thus we can focus period of time. too short. We are adjusting materials and techon finding improvements to sustainability above nology in products to extend their service lives and beyond the basic requirements. Products for a more sustainable lifestyle must and separability to make them more sustainameet our general requirements and show imble. We have decided that all consumables will Today, we approve four different eco-labels provement in at least one of the following criteria: have sustainable alternatives by 2021/22. (Oeko-Tex, FSC, the Nordic Swan and EU • Materials Ecolabel). Since these cannot be applied to all Renewable, recycled more resource-efficient types of products in our large range, we have • Chemicals developed a model to make better choices and Reduce, substitute, enhanced process promote a more sustainable range. The model • Energy and water can be summarised by saying that a more susIn production, during transport tainable product is to save resources (for exam• Use, reuse, recycling and waste ple, a cleaner production process, better choice Function, service life, repair, repairable when of materials or components, saving resources recycled 106 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Ethical business Our Code of Conduct, our Code of Business viations from the Code of Business Ethics and Ethics and our core values describe Clas Code of Conduct. No cases were reported Ohlson’s commitment to maintain high ethical during the year. We implemented the Netclean norms when active in the market in general and software in our IT systems during the finanwhen doing business. We place demands on cial year to stop images of child abuse being each individual employee and strategic partshared and stored via our IT systems. ner to maintain the same high level regarding a zero tolerance of corruption and conflicts of Our largest risk of corruption is in the purchasinterest, while ensuring observance of competiing process, when signing major agreements tion laws. We have zero tolerance of corruption and the geographical region where the risk of and bribery in all markets in which we opercorruption is greatest is in Asia, where approxate, in both the Nordics and Asia. The Code imately 70 per cent of our products are manuof Business Ethics also includes our focus on factured. Therefore, we conduct regular training children’s rights, for example, it describes how for all employees who work with purchasing we are expected to act if on a business trip we and high-value contracts and for our agents in suspect abuse of children. Asia. Our Code of Business Ethics and our Code of Digital training and information, including the Conduct, which are adopted annually by the Code of Business Ethics, are available to all Board of Directors, are included in all purchase employees on the intranet. agreements and we strive to include them in all major contracts. We are clear that violations of Two violations were reported during the year. the Code of Business Ethics could lead to conOur CSR auditor was subject to a bribery atsequences under labour law and criminal law, tempt, which was refused. The auditor reported or lead to the termination of the partnership. the incident and the partnership with the supplier was terminated. Clas Ohlson has an external whistle-blower service, WhistleB, for reporting suspected de107 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Controlling the supply chain We have internal auditors in China who conDuring the financial year, 60 of our suppliers Conduct. We can help our suppliers in the long duct both announced and unannounced auwere audited externally through Sedex, meanterm by analysing the causes of audit outdits. A total of 148 audits were conducted ing that other members of Sedex make purcomes and deviations and providing training. during the financial year, compared with 229 in chases from these suppliers. The Sedex partThe results of the pilot showed that 4-5 times the preceding year. One in five audits is unannership enables increased efficiency and transmore audit deviations have been corrected (77 nounced and 43 of the 148 audits were for new parency in our supply chain, which allows us to per cent compared with 15 per cent in a norsuppliers. The reason for the lower number of concentrate our resources on high-risk areas. mal follow-up of audit results). The results also audits was COVID-19 since the factories were showed that suppliers initiated specific action closed for a long period of time. Suppliers are re-audited every 24 months. One plans with clear budgets, allocations of rechallenge we continue to work on is achieving sponsibilities in the organisation and developed We have been affiliated with Sedex since 2017, lasting change in the supply chain. well-defined processes to continue in their a partnership for increased transparency rework. This work method will be implemented garding responsible purchasing that has now We carried out a pilot programme during the with more suppliers next year. been integrated into our supplier programme. year to prevent deviations from the Code of Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, % Discrimination Child labour Authorised minors Forced labour Compensation Freedom of association Audit access denied Environment Laws and regulations Social insurance Working hours Occupational health and safety 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 18/19 19/20 108 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Clas Ohlson’s contributions to the SDGs As part of the UN SDGs, the world has SDG Targets Clas Ohlson’s contribution to the SDG SDG Targets Clas Ohlson’s contribution to the SDG united around eliminating extreme pov4. Quality education 4.7 Education for sustainable Education opens up a world of opportunities that make it possible for each and every one of us to 12. Responsible 12.2 Achieve sustainable Current levels of production and consumption of products promotes a drastic overuse of erty, decreasing inequalities, solving the development and global citipromote a sustainable society. Using the QuizRR training tool, workers are educated in their rights consumption management and efficient resources, and our total climate footprint today is significantly greater than the planet’s capacity. climate crisis, and promoting peace and zenship. and obligations. Together with CCR CSR, we engage our suppliers in educating migrant workers and production use of natural resources. in parenthood, as well as in their and their children’s rights and well-being. Read more on pages We have a long-term goal of creating a resource-efficient value chain, and we want to help our justice. We can make this vision a reality 101-102. In partnership with the World Childhood Foundation, we inform and train our employees 12.4 Environmentally sound customers live more sustainably. Read about our sustainability targets, which include solutions for in identifying and preventing children from being subjected to violence and sexual abuse.Children’s management of chemicals a sustainable lifestyle, expanded services and sustainable packaging on pages 15-16. through shared efforts in all sectors of rights plasters are sold in stores and contain a simple message about children’s rights. The packand all wastes. society. Clas Ohlson will do its part by aging includes a folder that helps the person putting on the plaster to explain about children’s Read about our work on chemicals and our model for assessing sustainable products on pages rights. Read more on page 8. 12.5 Substantially reduce 21 and 106. working strategically on its most impor5. Gender equality 5.5 Ensure women’s full and Equality between women and men is a precondition for peaceful, sustainable development. Read waste generation. tant sustainability issues. effective participation and about our work on diversity and equality issues, and gender distribution targets in all groups and at 12.8 Ensure people everyequal opportunities for leadall levels, on pages 31-32. where have the relevant inforership at all levels of decimation for sustainable develIn 2018/19, we mapped the SDGs sion-making. opment and lifestyles. based on our areas of activity. The SDGs 7. Affordable and 7.2 Increase substantially the Access to sustainable, reliable and renewable energy and clean fuels is a precondition for meeting 13. Climate 13.3 Improve education and Climate change is a fact, and we must act now. By creating awareness concerning the climate and action human and institutional finding innovative, circular solutions to how this can be managed, we can make a difference. Read have been discussed among both Group clean energy share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. several of the challenges the world faces today. Read about energy efficiency in our stores on pages 135-135, and about emissions from transportation on pages 33-34. capacity on climate change about our new targets regarding sustainable products and services that promoted a circular econManagement and the Board of Direcmitigation. omy on pages 15-16. tors, and we have linked our sustainability targets to several of the SDGs. Goal 14. Life below 14.1 Reduce marine pollution Eight million tonnes of plastic end up in the oceans every year, and we need to help to reduce 8. Decent work and 8.4 Improve global resource By protecting labour rights and promoting a safe working environments for all workers, we create water of all kinds. marine pollution. Read more about our plastics strategy on pages 16 and 22. 12 was identified as the most important economic growth efficiency in consumption the conditions for sustainable economic growth. Read about our work on educating workers in and production. China using the QuizRR training tool on page 20. in our materiality analysis. 8.5 Achieve full and producRead about our work on audits at plants in high-risk countries, and our partnership with Sedex, on tive employment and decent pages 20. We are revising our sustainability stratework for all women and men, 16. Peace, justice 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, Lasting success cannot be achieved in a context of conflict and violence. We previously partnered and equal pay for work of gy and it is scheduled to be launched in equal value. and strong institutrafficking and all forms of with Epcat to ensure that our internal policies and processes maintain a high level of ethics in this tions violence against children. area. We continue to work actively on spreading knowledge internally about these policies and the 2020/21 financial year. In it, we will missives. We installed Netclean, a tool to stop images of sexual abuse of children, on all the com8.7 Eradicate forced labour, 16.5 Substantially reduce puters in the Group. more closely integrate the most signifiend human trafficking and corruption and bribery in all eliminate the worst forms of cant SDGs in our strategic targets. child labour. their forms. Read about our partnership with the World Childhood Foundation, which works to stop violence against and sexual abuse of children, on page 102. 8.8 Protect labour rights and A responsible and inclusive way of working, free from corruption and with a high degree of busiThe table shows how our sustainability promote safe and secure ness ethics, is expected from every individual employee at, and partner of, Clas Ohlson. Read working environments for all initiatives support the SDGs we focused workers. more about zero tolerance towards corruption and bribery on pages 107 and 108. 17. Partnerships 17.16 Enhance the global Today, the world is more connected than ever before, and through partnerships with other players on during the year. 10. Reduced 10.3 Ensure equal opportuAn equitable society is built on the principle of equal rights and opportunities for everyone regardfor the goals partnership for sustainable we can truly make a difference. Read more about our partnerships with the Save the Children inequalities nity and eliminate discriminaless, for example, of gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, age or other situation. Diversity enables development. Fund, QuizRR, the World Childhood Foundation and Sedex on pages 20, 101-102. tion. creativity and innovation, which helps us interact with our customers in the best way possible. Read more about our diversity initiatives on pages 34-35. The SDGs are available from sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs. 109 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE GRI Standards Index For the tenth consecutive year, Clas Ohlson is reporting governance, as well as disclosures concerning material GRI Disclosure Reference its work with sustainability pursuant to the GRI standaspects of Clas Ohlson. The page references refer to the ards. This annual report describes our sustainability areannual report or the website. With the exception of enerGovernance as, as well as relevant goals and key indicators linked to gy consumption and transportation, all data refers to the 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance, p.p. 47-51, Governance for a more sustainable these areas. 2019/20 financial year. Carbon emissions in this report lifestyle, p. 98 refer to the 2019 calendar year. Comparative figures due 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, p. 98 and social topics The GRI index provides references as regards standto the closure of the store network outside the Nordics ard disclosures concerning the company and corporate started in 2018 have not been restated. 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Board, p.p. 52-53, 88–89; Group management, p.p. 54-55 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts Risks and uncertainties, p.p. 41-45 2016 Standard Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risks and uncertainties, p.p. 41-45 GRI Disclosure Reference 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Materiality analysis, p. 99, Our value chain, p. 103 102-1 Name of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 36 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Clas Ohlson, p. 3, Customer offering p. 23 Directors’ Report, Stakeholder engagement p. 36 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Transparent dialogue for development, p. 100 102-3 Location of headquarters Directors’ Report, p. 36 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements On average, 97.5 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s employees are covered by 102-4 Location of operations Directors’ Report, p. 36 collective agreements 102-5 Ownership and legal form Directors’ Report, p. 36, The share, p.p. 115-117 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Transparent dialogue for development, p. 100 102-6 Markets served About Clas Ohlson, p. 3, Directors’ Report, p. 36 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Transparent dialogue for development, p. 100 102-7 Scale of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 36 ff 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality analysis, p. 99, Transparent dialogue for development, p. 100 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Targets and target fulfilment, p. 15, Smart and simple, p.p. 30-32 102-9 Supply chain Our value chain, p. 103 Reporting practice 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain No material changes during the year. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Directors’ Report, p. 50, Note 24, p. 81 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Risks and uncertainties, p.p. 41-45 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality analysis, p. 99 102-12 External initiatives Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis, p. 99, Our value chain, p. 103 p. 98, about.clasohlson.com. 102-48 Restatements of information No material changes 102-13 Membership of associations about.clasohlson.com 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI index, introduction, p. 110 Strategy 102-50 Reporting period GRI index, introduction, p. 110 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s statement, p. 6 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2018/19 Annual and Sustainability Report was published on 1 July 2019 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Risks and uncertainties, p.p. 41-45 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI index, introduction, p. 110 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Tina Englyst, Head of Legal and Sustainability, contact details, p. 119 Ethics and integrity 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI index, introduction, p. 110 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, p. 98, Ethical business, p. 107 102-55 GRI content index GRI index, p.p. 110-112 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, p. 98, Ethical business, 102-56 External assurance The GRI report is not externally assured. Auditor’s report on the statutory p. 107 sustainability report, p. 97 110 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE GRI Disclosure Reference GRI Disclosure Reference Material topics Effluents and waste 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 16, Our value chain, p. 103 Financial standards approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach Economic impact Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Corporate governance, p. 51, Auditor’s report, p.p. 86-88 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The year in brief, Economic value by stakeholder group, p. 5 Supplier environmental assessment 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts The year in brief, Economic value by stakeholder group, p. 5 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management A unique customer offering, p. 20, Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, p. 98, Ethical business, p. 107 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria A unique customer offering, p. 20, Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 Environmental standards 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken A unique customer offering, p. 20, Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 Materials 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 16, A unique customer offering, p. 22 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach Social standards Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining Occupational health and safety a relevant indicator. 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment (employee attendance), p. 15*, Smart and approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach simple, p.p. 31-32 about.clasohlson.com Energy *Clas Ohlson has defined its own indicator for this topic. 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 16 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Targets and target fulfilment, p. 16, Outstanding customer service, p. 26 Diversity and equal opportunity 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Smart and simple, p.p. 33-34 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 15, Smart and simple, p. 31, approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach about.clasohlson.com. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Targets and target fulfilment, p. 15, Corporate governance, p. 48 Emissions 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 16, Smart and simple, p.p. 33-34, approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach Climate consideration, p.p. 104-105 Non-discrimination 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate consideration, p.p. 104-105 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Smart and simple, p. 31, Governance for a more sustainable lifestyle, 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate consideration, p.p. 104-105 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach p. 98 about.clasohlson.com. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases during the financial year. 111 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE GRI Disclosure Reference Freedom of association and collective bargaining 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p. 15. A unique customer offering, approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach p.p. 20-2, about.clasohlson.com, Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association Controlling the supply chain, p. 108* and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Controlling the supply chain, p. 108* 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Controlling the supply chain, p. 108* compulsory labour 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human Controlling the supply chain, p. 108** rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria A unique customer offering, p. 20, Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Controlling the supply chain, p. 108 * This indicator tracks non-compliances based on supplier audits, where there is a higher risk for deviations in regards to freedom of association. ** All new suppliers are evaluated on their performance against our Code of Conduct criteria. Customer health and safety 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Targets and target fulfilment, p.p. 15-16 about.clasohlson.com, approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach A unique customer offering, p.p. 19-21 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. Customer privacy 103-1-3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management Risks and uncertainties, p.p. 41-45 approach and its components, evaluation of the management approach Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson has continued its process of defining a relevant indicator. 112 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Store overview Clas Ohlson’s store network* SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND OUTSIDE THE NORDICS Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date A Alingsås, Vimpeln 27-Mar-14 Stockholm, Barkarby Gate 27-Nov-14 A Alta, Amfi 17-Nov-11 Oslo, Alna Senter 27-Sep-06 E Espoo, Ainoa 16-Mar-17 UK B Borlänge, Norra Backa 26-Sep-13 Stockholm, Bromma Blocks 23-Sep-10 Arendal, Alti 28-Nov-07 Espoo, Iso Omena 14-Oct-15 R Reading 19 Nov 2009 Oslo, Bogstadveien 27-Oct-11 Borås, Knalleland 24-Oct-02 Stockholm, Drottninggatan 21-Oct-10 Asker, Trekanten 16-Oct-08 Espoo, Pikkulaiva 08-Nov-12 Oslo, Bryn Senter 26-Aug-10 E Eskilstuna, Cityhuset 30-May-02 Stockholm, Farsta Centrum 18-Nov-99 Askim, Askim Torget 11-Oct-17 Espoo, Sello 14-Sep-05 Oslo, CC Vest 11-Sep-14 F Falun, Falan Gallerian 05-Feb-09 Stockholm, Fältöversten Köpcentrum 11-Sep-19 B Bergen, Galleriet 30-Nov-17 H Helsinki, Itis 06-Nov-03 Oslo, City 11-Nov-05 G Gothenburg, Backaplan 19-Apr-18 Stockholm, Gallerian 30-Jun-89 Bergen, Lagunen 06-Mar-03 Helsinki, Kaari 17-Oct-13 Oslo, Lambertseter Senter 12-Oct-10 Gothenburg, Bäckebol Köpcenter 10-Apr-03 Stockholm, Haninge Centrum 10-Dec-04 Bergen, Sartor Storsenter 16-Feb-06 Helsinki, Kaivotalo 03-Nov-16 Oslo, Storo Storsenter 19-Jun-08 Gothenburg, Frölunda Torg 23-Oct-09 Stockholm, Hornstull 27-Oct-16 Bergen, Storsenter 22-Apr-99 Helsinki, Kampen 02-Mar-06 Oslo, Stovner Senter 06-Oct-16 Gothenburg, Mölndal Galleria 27-Sep-18 Stockholm, Kista Galleria 05-Dec-02 Bergen, Vestkanten Storsenter 22-Nov-12 Helsinki, Mall Of Tripla 17-Oct-19 Oslo, Torggata 26-Aug-91 Gothenburg, Nordstan 01-Jun-92 Stockholm, Kungens Kurva 24-Apr-14 Bergen, Åsane Horisont 30-Sep-04 Helsinki, Redi 20-Sep-18 P Porsgrunn, Down Town 27-Apr-06 Gothenburg, Partille Allum 09-Apr-06 Stockholm, Liljeholmstorget Galleria 15-Oct-10 Bodø, City Nord 07-Jun-11 Hyvinkää, Willa 18-Oct-12 R Rykkinn, Senter 15-Mar-18 Gothenburg, Sisjö Shopping 19-Apr-12 Stockholm, Mall of Scandinavia 12-Nov-15 Bodø, Koch Kjøpesenter 01-Feb-18 Hämeenlinna, Goodman 30-Oct-14 S Sandefjord, Hegnasletta 10-Sep-15 Gävle, Gallerian Nian 27-Nov-03 Stockholm, Märsta Centrum 26-Apr-18 Bryne, M44 05-Nov-09 J Joensuu, Iso Myy 06-Nov-08 Sandnes, Kvadrat 23-Sep-98 H Halmstad, City 08-Mar-01 Stockholm, Nacka Forum 29-Mar-07 D Drammen, Buskerud 08-Sep-11 Jyväskylä, Seppä Shopping Centrer 30-Apr-20 Sandnes, Maxi 26-May-16 Halmstad, Flygstaden 16-Jun-11 Stockholm, Ringen Centrum 18-Oct-18 Drammen, Gulskogen 18-Sep-08 Jyväskylä, Sokkari 10-Nov-16 Sandvika, Storsenter 10-Jan-02 Helsingborg, Kullagatan 04-Jun-09 Stockholm, Sickla Köpkvarter 06-Dec-07 E Elverum, Kremmertorget 22-Mar-12 K Kempele, Zeppelin 03-Aug-17 Sarpsborg, Storbyen 08-Jun-06 Helsingborg, Väla Centrum 12-Jun-03 Stockholm, Skärholmen Centrum 07-Dec-00 F Farsund, Amfi 01-Jun-17 Kokkola, Kallentori 27-Sep-07 Ski, Storsenter 16-Oct-03 Hudiksvall, Fyren Gallerian 23-Apr-09 Stockholm, Sollentuna Centrum 31-May-07 Finnsnes, Amfi 09-Jun-16 Kotka, Pasaati 23-May-13 Skien, Herkules 18-Oct-07 I Insjön, Hjultorget 27-Jun-18 Stockholm, Solna Centrum 07-Apr-05 Fredrikstad, Dikeveien 25-Nov-10 Kouvola, Veturi 13-Sep-12 Slependen, Senter 18-Sep-14 J Jönköping, Asecs (A6) Center 22-May-03 Stockholm, Sveavägen 52 25-Oct-18 Fredrikstad, Torvbyen 01-Dec-05 Kuopio, Haapaniemenkatu 24-Feb-05 Sogndal, Amfi Sogningen 06-Jun-13 Jönköping, City 09-Dec-10 Stockholm, Tyresö Centrum 03-May-18 Førde, Alti 22-Nov-12 Kuopio, Matkus Shopping Center 01-Nov-12 Sortland, Handelsparken 24-May-18 K Kalmar, Baronen Köpcenter 24-Nov-05 Stockholm, Täby Centrum 25-Oct-01 G Gjøvik, CC Kjøpesenter 10-Mar-06 L Lahti, Karisma 03-Nov-11 Stathelle, Alti Brotorvet 23-Nov-17 Kalmar, Hansa City Modehuset 14-Mar-13 Stockholm, Vällingby Centrum 15-Nov-07 H Halden, Walkers Gate 12 12-Mar-15 Lahti, Syke 31-May-12 Stavanger, Kilden 25-Oct-07 Karlskrona, Lyckeby Shopping Center 27-Nov-14 Stockholm, Värmdö Köpcentrum 17-Jun-15 Hamar, CC Stadion 11-Nov-14 Lappeenranta, IsoKristiina 01-Nov-07 Stavanger, Madla 08-Nov-07 Karlstad, Bergvik Köpcenter 20-Aug-15 Stockholm, Väsby Centrum 27-Apr-07 Harstad, Kanebogen 06-Apr-17 Lempäälä, Ideapark 29-Nov-07 Stavanger, Mediegården 11-Nov-10 Karlstad, Mitt i City Gallerian 21-Sep-06 Strömstad, Nordby Shoppingcenter 29-May-09 Harstad, Sjöøkanten 24-Feb-11 M Mariehamn, Maxinge Center 16-May-13 Steinkjer, Amfi 15-Oct-09 Kiruna, Österleden 11-Nov-10 Sundsvall, Birsta 30-Apr-08 Haugesund, Oasen 03-Oct-02 Mikkeli, Akseli 16-Jun-11 Stjørdal, Torgkvartalet 02-Nov-17 Kristianstad, C4 22-Nov-18 Sundsvall, In-Gallerian 10-Jun-99 Horten, Sjøsiden 09-Jun-11 O Oulo, Valkea 25-Nov-10 Stord, Heiane Storsenter 20-Jun-13 Kristianstad, Galleria Boulevard 18-Apr-07 Södertälje, Lunagallerian 29-Apr-10 Husnes, Storsenter 08-Mar-18 P Pori, Puuvilla 30-Oct-14 Strømmen, Storsenter 21-Oct-99 Kungsbacka, Kungsmässan 13-Mar-08 T Trelleborg, Valengallerian 25-Apr-07 Hønefoss, Kuben 19-Feb-09 Porvoo, Lundi 21-Apr-20 Svolvær, Alti 08-Dec-16 Kungälv, Kongahälla Center 28-Mar-19 Trollhättan, Överby Köpcenter, Södra 28-Jun-12 J Jessheim, Storsenter 05-Nov-08 R Raisio, Mylly 04-Nov-15 T Tromsø, Jekta 12-Jun-08 L Lidköping, Änghagens Handelsplats 25-Apr-12 U Uddevalla, City Gallerian 19-Oct-06 K Kongsberg, Stortorvet 03-Jun-10 Rovaniemi, Rinteenkulma 23-Oct-08 Trondheim, City Lade 12-Oct-17 Linköping, Åhlenshuset 10-Jun-04 Umeå, Avion Shopping 17-Mar-16 Kongsvinger, Kongssenteret 24-May-12 S Seinäjoki, Ideapark 14-Nov-19 Trondheim, City Syd 08-May-03 Ljungby, Ljungbyporten 14-Jun-18 Umeå, MVG Gallerian 13-Apr-00 Kristiansand, Sandens 06-Nov-08 T Tampere, Hämeenkatu 18-Mar-04 Trondheim, Solsiden 19-Oct-00 Luleå, Smedjan Gallerian 21-Mar-02 Uppsala, Gränbystaden 25-Aug-11 Kristiansand, Sørlandssenteret 19-Nov-98 Tampere, Ratina 19-Apr-18 Trondheim, Torg 17-Feb-11 Luleå, Storheden 16-Feb-12 Uppsala, S:t Per Gallerian 16-Nov-00 Kristiansund, Alti Futura 24-Mar-11 Turku, Hansa 03-Mar-05 Tønsberg, Farmandstredet 21-Sep-01 Lund, Nova Lund 07-Nov-13 V Valbo, Valbo Köpcentrum 23-Feb-12 L Larvik, Nordbyen 23-Apr-09 Turku, Skanssi 25-Oct-12 * Store portfolio on 30 April 2020 V Vestby, Storsenter 14-Mar-13 Löddeköpinge, Galleria Center Syd 26-Nov-15 Varberg, Gallerian Varberg 28-Sep-17 Leira, Amfi 26-Oct-17 V Vaasa, Rewell Center 14-Oct-04 Vinstra, Vinstragata 93 16-Feb-17 Visit https://about.clasohlson.com/en/about-us/storesM Malmö, Emporia 25-Oct-12 Visby, Österväg 17-Apr-08 Levanger, Magneten Kjøpesenter 05-Jun-14 Vantaa, Jumbo 27-Oct-05 Vinterbro, Senter 26-Mar-15 markets-sales-channels/our-stores/ to receive continuously Malmö, Mobilia 26-Sep-13 Västervik, Ljungheden 06-Dec-12 Lillehammer, Strandtorget 18-Nov-10 Vantaa, Myyrmanni 29-Nov-11 Voss, Handelshus 16-Jun-16 updated information about the store portfolio. Malmö, Triangeln 03-Dec-93 Västerås, Erikslund Shopping Center 22-Sep-11 Lillestrøm, Torv 23-Mar-17 Å Ålesund, Amfi Moa 22-Jan-04 Motala, Bråstorp Family Shopping 29-Jan-09 Västerås, Kvarteret Igor 22-Nov-01 Lørenskog, Triaden 30-Nov-06 Clas Ohlson’s broad and affordable product range is also Ø Ørsta, Alti 04-Oct-12 Norrköping, Galleria Domino 02-May-96 Växjö, Grand Samarkand 06-May-04 M Mandal, Alti 20-Nov-14 available online in the Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish marNorrköping, Mirum Gallerian 10-Dec-09 Ä Ängelholm, Brännborn Center 23-Mar-17 Mo I Rana, Søndre Gate 2 07-Jun-12 kets. N Norrtälje, Flygfyren 14-Jun-12 Ö Örebro, Krämaren 27-Nov-97 Molde, Storsenter 22-Oct-09 www.clasohlson.se Nyköping, Gallerian Nyckeln 05-Oct-06 Örebro, Marieberg Galleria 26-Mar-09 Moss, Amfi 12-Oct-06 www.clasohlson.no P Piteå, Gallerian Piteå 20-Sep-07 Örnsköldsvik, Galleria Magasinet 12-Apr-07 N Narvik, Storsenter 04-Dec-08 www.clasohlson.fi S Skellefteå, Citykompaniet 17-Mar-05 Östersund, Mittpunkten 28-Apr-05 O Orkanger, Amfi 30-Oct-14 Skövde, Elins Esplanad 27-Nov-08 Outside the Nordics: www.amazon.com/uk 113 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE History 1918 1961 1972 1991 2008 2012 2015 2017 At the age of just 250,000 copies The new office The first store The Central A new online shopping platform Clas Ohlson opened Sales exceeded 8 22, Clas Ohlson of the catalogue and store building outside Sweden was 2000 Warehouse 2009 was launched, with extended its 200th store in billion SEK for the 2020 and his brother were printed, on Highway 70 inaugurated in Oslo, – now the availability, service and inspiration. Karlstad in Sweden. first time. Lotta Lyrå Sales Clas Ohlson There are now 87 was recruited as the The two-year Emil founded a mail including about in Insjön was Norway. Clas Ohlson distribution A mobile version was also exceeded 1 opened its stores in Sweden. new President and CO100+ action order company, 7,000 products. completed. is a well-known centre – was launched at the end of the year. 1944 billion SEK for 100th store CEO. programme Clas Ohlsson & The company The number of name in Norway, expanded and The Club Clas loyalty programme the first time. in Motala in was completed. Co. The company had about 600 employees was since the first mail the Clas Ohlson was launched in Sweden. Clas Ohlson Sweden. was registered as a suppliers. 75. The catalogue order catalogue was Museum In December, monthly sales bicycle repair shop removed an contained about published there in opened in exceeded SEK 1 billion for the and printer, but mail “s” from his 8,000 products. 1985. Insjön. The first time. 2016 2018 order operations last name expansion in because he 1967 The Club Clas loyalty Clas Ohlson new strategy soon started. the UK started, thought it 146,477 1989 2002 and the first 2011 2014 programme welcomed 100 more years was graphically packages were 1999 store opened its 2,000,000th launched, meaning that the Clas Ohlson The first Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson’s first looked better. sent from Insjön in Croydon member and Clas company would grow on opened its store in opened its franchise store was during the year. Clas Ohlson was in southwest Ohlson’s first store in the Nordic market, focusing first store Finland 150th store, opened in Dubai. The Clas The average listed on the London. Germany was opened on simplifying people’s outside Insjön opened in which was Office corporate concept value of a Stockholm Stock in central Hamburg. everyday lives at home in central Helsinki. in Lahti in was launched in Sweden package was 56 Exchange. The company has through a combination Stockholm. Finland. and Norway. The Club SEK, or about 4,700 employees. of products, advice and Clas loyalty programme supplementary services. 480 SEK today. was introduced in Finland. 1985 1995 2013 2018 Sales of New central warehouse Club Clas arrives 100th anniversary 100 MSEK A new central warehouse Club Clas was Unique customer ofThe company’s sales in Insjön opened. At its launched in March fers, a look back at exceeded 100 MSEK opening, the warehouse and in its first year, some historic mofor the first time. During encompassed 11,000 the loyalty club atments and a festival for the year, a subsidiary square metres with a ceiltracted more than all of our co-workers was opened in Norway ing height of 9 metres. one million members. are just a few examwhen mail order sales ples of how the first were established in the 100 years as a compacountry. ny were celebrated. 114 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE The Clas Ohlson share price and turnover trend 2019/20 The Clas Ohlson share 120 Clas Ohlson B SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI Number of shares trades (000s) 6,000 100 5,000 Clas Ohlson’s series B share has been listed on 80 4,000 Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999. The share is 60 3,000 included in the Consumer Services sector index. 40 2,000 The share reported a 8.6 per cent increase during the financial year. Clas Ohlson’s total market capitalisation 20 1,000 amounted to 5.6 billion SEK (5.2) calculated on the 0 MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR 0 most recent share price of SEK 85.55 on 30 April 2020. 2019 2020 Source: Clas Ohlson B (Totalreturn) Number of shares Share trend Share capital SIX Return Index OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) The Clas Ohlson share increased 8.6 per cent to 85.55 The share capital of Clas Ohlson at the end of the finan500 20,000 SEK (78.80) compared with the year-earlier period, cial year totalled 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series 450 18,000 while the SIX General Index declined 3 per cent. The toA shares and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a tal return for the share, including re-invested dividends, quotient value of 1.25 SEK. Each series A share carries 400 16,000 amounted to 16.5 per cent. ten votes, while each series B share carries one vote. All 350 14,000 shares carry equal rights to payment of dividends. Hold300 12,000 The highest price paid was 116.5 SEK, recorded in ers of series A shares can request that their A shares be December 2019, while the lowest price paid was 62.45 converted to series B shares. 250 10,000 SEK, recorded in March 2020. 200 8,000 Treasury shares 150 6,000 Share turnover The number of registered shares amounted to During the 2019/20 financial year, 49,690,980 Clas 65,600,000, of which 2,262,553 (2,382,206) were held 100 4,000 Ohlson shares were traded, representing a turnover rate by the company at the end of the financial year. At the 50 2,000 of 76 per cent. end of the period, the number of shares outstanding, 0 0 net after buyback, was 63,337,447 (63,217,794). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: 115 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Data per share1 2019/20 2018/195 2017/18 2016/17 2015/162 The entire LTI 2019 undertaking has been secured by Dividend policy and dividend Average number of shares before dilution, million 63.3 63.2 63.2 63.1 63.2 using shares that were bought back to secure previous Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to LTI plans where the need has been recalculated (buycomprise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 5.94 1.13 5.66 7.59 6.00 back of 21 MSEK in the preceding year). after tax, with consideration of the company’s financial Comprehensive income per share, SEK 5.66 1.26 6.37 8.30 5.07 position. Cash flow per share excl. IFRS 16, SEK 3 12.91 4.93 5.90 11.08 11.15 Shareholding structure Equity per share, SEK 27.84 30.8 35.82 35.68 33.75 On 30 April 2020, the company had a total of 38,504 Macroeconomic trends and their impact on the retail Share price at 30 April, SEK 86 79 96 147 162 shareholders (42,336). Non-Swedish owners accounted sector as a result of COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 6.25 5.75 for 39 per cent (32) of the capital and 33 per cent (33) of stage, the Board intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s P/E ratio, multiple 14 70 17 19 27 the votes. solid financial position and flexibility and therefore proDividend yield, % 7.9 6.5 4.3 3.5 poses that no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial Payout ratio, % -4 553 110 82 96 The Swedish ownership is dominated by private individyear. Total return, % 16 -11 -30 -6 17 uals, owning 49 per cent (47) of the capital, while institutions own 12 per cent (21). 1 See key ratio definitions on pages 89-90. 2 Excluding a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 3 From operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 5 Including non-recurring cost of 210 MSEK for the closure of the store network outside the Nordics. Share data Shareholder categories, % No. of shareholders Earnings per share, SEK Average daily trading, Listing: Nasdaq Mid Cap thousands 5.94 42,336 5.66 393 Ticker: Clas B 45,000 38,504 6.0 400 39% 12% 34,717 Industry: Consumer Service 36,000 4.8 320 ISIN code: SE0000584948 200 27,000 8.6 240 184 49% 18,000 2.4 160 1.13 9,000 4.2 80 Swedish institutions Swedish private shareholders 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 Non-Swedish shareholders 116 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Trend in share capital Additional Accumulated Total Year Transaction shares number of shares share capital 1994 48,000 4,800,000 1999 Split 10:1 432,000 480,000 4,800,000 1999 Bonus issue 6,720,000 7,200,000 72,000,000 1999 Share issue 1,000,000 8,200,000 82,000,000 2001 Split 4:1 24,600,000 32,800,000 82,000,000 2004 Split 2:1 32,800,000 65,600,000 82,000,000 1 Major shareholders Number of series A Number of series B Shareholders shares shares Percentage of capital Percentage of votes Haid family 3,023,880 12,029,103 22.9 36.0 Tidstrand family 2,736,120 7,079,828 15.0 29.3 Nordea Fonder 0 4,423,825 6.7 3.8 If Skadeförsäkring AB 0 2,973,238 4.5 2.5 JP Morgan Asset Management 0 1,473,721 2.2 1.3 Vanguard 0 1,120,027 1.7 1.0 Svenska Handelsbanken AB for PB 0 906,500 1.4 0.8 Norges Bank 0 701,364 1.1 0.6 Swedbank Robur Fonder 0 593,400 0.9 0.5 SEB Fonder & Liv 0 516,968 0.8 0.4 SHB Fonder & Liv 0 482,095 0.7 0.4 Dimensional Fund Advisors 0 457,955 0.7 0.4 Avanza Pension 0 405,418 0.6 0.3 BlackRock 0 363,686 0.6 0.3 APG Asset management 0 356,562 0.5 0.3 Total 15 largest 5,760,000 33,883,690 60.4 77.9 Other 0 25,956,310 39.6 22.1 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 Shares owned by Clas Ohlson 0 2,262,553 3.4 1.9 Shareholder categories 1 Number of series A Number of series B Shareholders shares2 shares Percentage of capital Percentage of votes Swedish private shareholders 3,744,080 26,662,389 49.4 60.2 Swedish institutions 0 7,811,328 11.9 6.7 Non-Swedish shareholders 2,015,920 25,366,283 38.7 33.2 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 Shareholding structure 1 Size interval Number of shares Percentage Number of shareholders 1–500 3,564,808 5.4 32,302 501–1000 3,036,216 4.6 3,756 1,001–5,000 4,452,262 6.8 2,084 5,001–10,000 1,407,337 2.1 191 10,001–20,000 1,111,010 1.7 79 20,001– 47,354,739 72.2 92 Anonymous shareholding 4,673,628 7.1 Total 65,600,000 100.0 38,504 1 On 30 April 2020 2 All series A shares were held by descendants of Clas Ohlson 117 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON THE YEAR IN BRIEF CEO’S STATEMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACCOUNTS KEY RATIOS SUSTAINABILITY STORES THE SHARE Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Dividend proposal Due to the prevailing situation and uncertainty surroundMacroeconomic trends and their impact on the retail ing COVID-19, the Board intends to convene and Annusector as a result of COVID-19 remain uncertain. At this al General Meeting (AGM) to be held by postal voting, stage, the Board intends to safeguard Clas Ohlson’s solor electronic voting combined with postal voting in acid financial position and flexibility and therefore proposes cordance with the Swedish Act on Temporary Exempthat no dividend be paid for the 2019/20 financial year. tions to Facilitate the Execution of General Meetings in Companies and Associations (2020:198). This means Distribution policy for annual report that shareholders will be unable to physically attend the This year’s annual report is digital. A limited number of Meeting venue and shareholders can vote either by post physical copies will be available for distribution to those in advance of the Meeting or by attending the Meeting shareholders who request it. Distribution will take place electronically if the Board decides that the Meeting is to about four weeks prior to the AGM. The Clas Ohlson be held electronically combined with postal voting. More Annual Report and other financial information are availinformation will be provided in the notice of the AGM. able at about.clasohlson.com. As previously announced, the AGM will be held on 12 September 2020. The digital speeches of the CEO and FINANCIAL INFORMATION the Chairman of the Board will be made available on Clas Ohlson provides financial information for about.clasohlson.com. the 2020/21 financial year as follows: • Interim report May-July, 9 September 2020 Notification of Annual General Meeting • Interim report August-October, 2 December 2020 Notification of the AGM takes place through an an• Interim report November-January, 10 March 2021 Our founder was brave, inquisitive and was bold in challenging conventions. Pictures that was nouncement in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and the no• Interim report February-April, 2 June 2021 taken of our co-workers at the 100th anniversary celebration has been turned into this portrait of tice being made available on the company’s website. Clas Ohlson. It is now these co-workers who are building and developing the Clas Ohlson of the Documents to be presented at the AGM are available future. The portrait now hangs at our offices in Insjön and Stockholm. from the company’s website about four weeks before the meeting. 118 C L A S OH L S ON A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I TY R E P OR T 2019/ 20 Contact details Clas Ohlson AB SE-793 85 Insjön, Sweden Tel: +46 247 444 00 ir@clasohlson.se about.clasohlson.com
