June 13, 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JAN 2019 TO JAN 2020 THIS IS OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT. Prepared by: 1 CEO Statement of Continued Support in 2020 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to inform that Information Matirx its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the area of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and anti-corruption. In this communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operation.. We also commit to share this information with stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Best Regards, Thaung Su Nyein Chief Executive Officer Information Matrix Co., Ltd 2 Human Right Principle Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix emphasizes to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. We made further progress implementing Information Matrix’s commitment to respect human rights as set out in our position on human rights, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Children’s Rights and Business Principles. Implementation All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We understand of equality by prohibiting any distinction in the enjoyment of human rights on such grounds as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We clearly defines the legal lines on discrimination in our workplace. 3 Our staff is also committed to upholding the highest standards of integrity, neutrality and impartiality at work and outside. Information Matrix refuses all kinds of abuses to human rights including discrimination and stereotyping, which has been made clear to all our employees and stakeholders. Measurement of Outcomes Reports on regular basis, are provided by our Human Resources Department to our senior management team on implementing the UNGS’s human rights principles, if any violation occurs it will be reported instantly and correction actions are taken directly. Information Matrix is working on implementing the recommendations in the UN report regarding gender equality, by the end of 2019 all the recommendations will be turned into actions. 4 Labour Principle Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix is an equal organization that believes in democracy which will definitely lead to finding productive solutions to any potential problem, we have built an internal system to encourage collective bargaining and ease the communication between employees and the senior management team, the system is an application that facilitates the dialogue between the staff and the management and keeps the dialogue vertical and healthy. Employees could whistle blow any error or problem they face directly through an application to the management to investigate and take action. 5 Implementation Information Matrix has developed a social committee for employees to ensure surrounding them with social activities and encourage keeping strong relationships between them and the senior management team. Information Matrix has also created a group on Facebook that includes all its employees and management to ensure no communication gap between all parties. Our Human Resource Department has circulated UNGS’s 10 principles to all our employees, and were asked to engage them in their day to day operations. Information Matrix’s working environment is full of respect, neutrality and democracy. Measurement of Outcomes Our senior management team receives regular reports from the Human Resources Department concerning recruitment, and implementation of the labour principles. Information Matrix complies to the Myanmar labour rules and regulations, If any violation occurs, it is reported immediately and correction actions are taken instantly. Our HR department also provides senior management team with reports evaluating the satisfaction of employees, to guarantee a healthy work environment full of equality, respect and democracy. 6 Environment Principle Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment,Policy and Goals Respect for the environment is central to our approach to sustainable development. UNGC environmental principles are incorporated in our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Ever since signing up with the UN Global Compact, environment related issues became one of the major priorities in our strategies. Environment is also one of the major guidelines for our CSR policy. We always reduce our use of resources and the environment impact from our activities. 7 Implementation At Information Matrix, we consider protecting the environment as a main pillar in our business and CSR strategies. Information Martix prioritize the safety no only for the safety of the people but also for the environment. Our management committee conduct safety training for all employees to be responsible for the environment and the communities. Management committee takes action by setting up the operation procedures for practicing the waste management hierarchy – reduce, reuse and recycling. Given the nature of our business as a media company, we promote and raise environmental awareness for our readers by putting one full page for the environment special reports every week. Information Matrix has also contributed towards several initiatives and done several campaigns to raise the awareness on protecting the environment. The National Bank has also raised the value of volunteering within its staff by creating internal voluntary groups to contribute towards the community in line with its CSR program strategies. Measurement of Outcomes Reports are sent to senior management on regular basis to guarantee fulfilling the environmental related issues and implementing our friendly environment policy in all our operations. No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. 8 Anit-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix adopts the United Nations Global Compact principles on Anticorruption. And also adopts other universal policies concerning governance.Information Matrix combats corruption in all its forms and refuses all kinds of extortion and bribery in addition to ensuring transparency and bank secrecy acts, which is our core value. UNGC’s principles on Anti-corruption are circulated to all Information Matrix employees, and are asked to engage these principles in their day to day operations. Implementation We are fully committed to fair and open business conduct in our business society. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are actively engaged with other companies and nongovernmental organizations in the fight against corruption. We always open and transparent dealings with our stakeholders, and it supports our commitment to conducting our business with integrity. Reporting, Monitoring and Eduction components that we always train our employee to avoid anti-corruption status. Through our training and guidelines, our employee are made aware of their responsibility to act with integrity at all times. If there is any inconsistency, we will comply with the higher. 9 Measurement of Outcomes Our Company regularly provide the BOD with reports concerning compliance with the UN Global Compact principles about Anti-corruption, if any violation occurs, it is reported directly to the Board of Directors and correction actions are taken immediately. Information Matrix BOD committees always ensure that the business operation complies with the local and international regulations and inspect the business’s operations through the monitoring departments.
